	id	conclusion	premises	stance	rank
0	S9a4f3541-A4bf3943c	Cyber bullying should be a criminal offense	"Resolved: Cyber bullying should be a criminal offense. On balance, I stand in opposition to this resolution. Cyberbullying is defined by Dictionary.com as the act of harassing someone online by sending or posting mean messages, usually anonymously. As for a criminal offense it is defined as an act punishable by law; usually considered an evil act.” Now for my first contention: today we continue to push for matters such as cyberbullying to be handled by an already under resourced police department rather than by programs such as the Dignity Act for All Students. This Act was implemented in July 1st of 2010. My first sub point is that the Dignity Act requires school districts to report problems with bullying to the State Educational department and furthermore, this program mandates that schools adopt programs to educate people and counteract the problem with bullying. Secondly, Justin Patchin, co-director of the national cyberbullying research center for the past 10 years, and professor at the University of Wisconsin says “There are better alternatives than criminalizing cyberbullies.” Patchin says that schools and families should become more involved with the lives of students. Patchin also says “We know from decades of research that teens are not deterred by threats of formal punishment. They are more likely to be deterred by relationships they care about within the school, and what their friends think.” In other words, Finally, if schools really strive to teach that bullying is wrong and if students learn that bullying will be punished with in the schools, then the need to make cyberbullying a crime will be deterred by the programs being taught in the school. Now for my second contention, in the process of being bullied one must learn to understand that bullies are often victims in other contexts. Sub point A: according to the Berkman center for Society and Internet at Harvard University Danah Boyd and John Palfrey say “Bullies aren’t the source of the problem, they are often a symptom.” Many times bullies have had some form of power taken away from them and therefore lash out in situations where they have control. Boyd and Palfrey also say that “We must have empathy for those who hurt and for those who are being hurt. Recognizing this is crucial to stopping the cycle of bullying.” This leads us to our next sub point. Yes, cyber bullying is awful and it can create problems in an individual, however we have to understand and help those who bully. Each individual responds to difficulties in a different way, and just because someone is being hurt doesn’t mean we ignore the person who is hurting; therefore we should help both of the people. This can be done by enforcing more group focused activities, support groups, and counseling in the school this can help to end the cycle of bullying. Now for my third contention. It is the fact that feelings are inconsistent and vary from individual to individual. First, how can the government measure something that is inconsistent and then deliver a sentence based on the varying emotions of a hormonal teenager. Hanni Flakhoury, staff lawyer at the Electronic Freedom Foundation, says “If you hurt a 15 year olds feelings really bad, do you go to jail for that?” That is a valid question to ask. In the process of cyberbullying no one is physically hurt, their feelings just are. Grant it, there are cases in which an individual commits suicide. However, can cyberbullying be the only cause for the suicide victim of online harassment? Maybe, most likely not. For example, in the Clementi’s case Tyler Clementi committed suicide because his sexual orientations were displayed online by his roommate Dharun Ravi. However, can we really say that Ravi was responsible for the death of Clementi? In this specific case, along with many others, one comes to the specific problem of morality. Grant it, what Ravi did was not correct, however what about the morality of Clementi? Our final sub points are: Why would he commit suicide if what he was doing was morally correct? Why would he commit suicide if he wasn’t ashamed of what he was doing? All these points lead to this: that though Ravi acted in an EXTREMELY unjust way we must understand that Ravi was perhaps not the only reason for Clementi’s suicide. Cyberbullying should not be a criminal offense firstly because the United States of America already has enough criminal offenses and is already under resourced, secondly because we often forget to sympathize with the bully, and thirdly because feelings are inconsistent and immeasurable. Works Cited: Cali, Jeanine . ""Frequent Reference Question: How Many Federal Laws Are There?."" Library of Congress. N.p., 12 Mar 2013. Web. 29 Sep. 2013. <http://blogs.loc.gov...>. Week Staff, . "" Tyler Clementi case: Is Dharun Ravi's jail sentence too lenient?."" THE WEEK. FELIX DENNIS., 21 May 2012. Web. 29 Sep. 2013. <http://theweek.com...>. NIGAM, HEMANSHU (HEMU) . ""Cyberbullying: What It Is and What to Do About It."" Abc News. 7 Oct 2011: n. page. Print. <http://abcnews.go.com...>. Chu, Elbert. ""Should Cyberbullying Be a Crime?."" School Book. WNYC, 27 Apr 2012. Web. 29 Sep. 2013. <http://www.wnyc.org...>. Bartlett, Tom. ""Sympathy for the Bully."" Percolator. N.p., 19 Mar 2012. Web. 29 Sep. 2013. <http://chronicle.com...>. Boyd, Danah, and John Palfrey. ""What You Must Know to Help Combat Youth Bullying, Meanness, and Cruelty."" the Born This Way Foundation & the Berkman Center for Internet & Society at Harvard University. (2012): all. Web. 29 Sep. 2013. <http://cyber.law.harvard.edu...>. Butler, Paul. ""Not Every Tragedy Should Lead to Prison.""Room For Debate. New York Times, 3 Dec 2011. Web. 29 Sep. 2013. <http://www.nytimes.com...>. United States, Texas. Hotline. Abuse in America. Austin, Texas: Center for Disease Control , 2010. Print. <http://www.thehotline.org...>. NCPC <http://www.ncpc.org...> Billitteri, Thomas. ""Should bullying resulting in suicide be a criminal offense?."" The CQ Researcher blog. Blogger, 10 Dec 2012. Web. 29 Sep. 2013. Chapman, Diana. ""LAPD: Cyberbullying NOT a Crime.""City Watch. N.p., 4 January 2013. Web. 29 Sep. 2013. <http://www.citywatchla.com..."	CON	1
1	S9a4f3541-A310aeb22	Cyber bullying should be a criminal offense	"Hello! Sorry for the delay in my argument. Seeing as my opponent has deftly jumped into his argument from the first round, I will do my best to follow him in procedure. This should be a challenging debate. Let's begin, shall we? I. Introduction For my side of the argument, I logically and emotionally maintain the fact that cyberbullying should be taken seriously and, at serious degrees, be a criminal offense, and subject to fines at minimum, and imprisonment at the maximum. Pro has brought up a decent amount of excellent points, with which I mostly agree with. However, I will provide contradictions, cases, and reasoning to negate his/her argument. II. What Exactly is Cyberbullying? My opponent has already stated the dictionary definition: ""The act of harassing someone online by sending or posting mean messages, usually anonymously."" However, US Legal Definitions goes further, saying ""Cyber-bullying could be limited to posting rumors or gossips about a person in the Internet bringing about hatred in other’s minds; or it may go to the extent of personally identifying victims and publishing materials severely defaming and humiliating them.""[1] In many cases, cyberbullying applies to the first, official definition, and can easily be resolved in school environments. However, there are many situations of cyberbullying, such as these[2][3][4], when the victim goes far as to committing suicide. Now, I will bring up the definition of third-degree murder. According to the same website, US Legal Definitions, ""Third degree murder can be defined as homicide committed with the intention of causing bodily harm, but not necessarily death. It can be a killing that results from indifference or negligence or recklessness. Statutes defining third degree murder vary considerably from state to state.""[5] The connection is implied: cyberbullying that causes suicide could possibly be considered as third-degree murder. Now, third degree murder is usually considered as physical homicide, and bodily harm usually accounts for physical wounds. However, the harasser usually knows that what they're doing will humiliate and embarrass the victim, but do not intend to provoke him/her into committing suicide. There are multiple fines and short-term arrests because of third degree murder. If the victim commits suicide, then the bully was technically something of a third degree murderer. This is somewhat farfetched, but even if they don't count as a third degree murderer, they should be accounted as a criminal that falls short of that crime. II. Incapability of the School System and Law Enforcement My opponent has stated before that since 2010, when the Dignity Act was ratified, schools have been taking more action into preventing cyberbullying. However, this information is grossly obsolete for such a current debate. There have been thousands of cases of cyberbullying since this act nonetheless, including hundreds when the victim attempted (sometimes successfully) suicide due to this. Statistics in an article created in 2012 (2 years after the Dignity Act) by CyberBullyHotline show that 42% of teens in 2012 were cyberbullied, 20% of them thought about suicide, and 10% of them attempted suicide, resulting in 4,500 successful suicidal situations total. [6] This could be 4,500 cases of possible aggravated harassment, third degree stalking, and third degree murder (although the murder is still an assumption). Schools have not significantly decreased the amount of cyberbullying, nor the suicide attempts. In fact, since 2010, the percentage of victims of cyberbullying has increased by 4%. [7] Any laws or regulations since 2010 has proved to be ineffective, and I dare to go further and even say they're technically futile and meaningless in terms of results. Statistics show that further law enforcement is needed in order to effectively decrease the amount of cyberbullied victims. III. Why Criminal Offense? My opponent has defined criminal offense as ""an act punishable by law; usually considered an evil act."" Many cases of cyberbullying, even ones that don't end with the victim's suicide, break several laws, each differing in degrees of severity.[8] Con's sources were all cases when the bully was arrested, but just because you commit a crime doesn't mean you go to jail. You can either pay fines, be on probation, or do community service. Minor criminals such as cyberbullies hardly deserve to be arrested, unless they resemble cases I have stated above. This is where I present my counter-plan. Cyberbullies are evidently unable to be repressed by school discipline, so we should give them varying levels or punishment, depending on the severity of their crimes. Here is the plan I propose in a numerical list: 1. Level 1 Cyberbullying. This applies when the bully posts malicious comments and messages open to the general public. Punishments are rare, often able to be settled with a school warning, or a school board warning. 2. Level 2 Cyberbullying. This applies when the bully shares personal information about the victim to intend harm, such as a photo, location, phone number, or email address to the general public. The bully could be sued for Publication of Private Facts, and given a suspension in the highest case. If this information is used by a third party to harm the victim, this immediately escalates to a Level 3. 3. Level 3 Cyberbullying. This applies when the bully intentionally provokes the victim using obscene and sex-related comments, and encourages the public to do the same. If the bully or his/her accomplices commit an unlawful act to intentionally harm the victim, then it escalates to a Level 4 or he/she will be given a fine or community service along with school suspension. The bully could be charged for Abuse of Freedom of Speech, according to 18 U.S. Code Chapter 71.[9] 4. Level 4 Cyberbullying. The bully directly indulges in breaking the law by severely harassing the victim, using inappropriate content such as nude pictures, threats to cause physical harm, and severely discriminative and obscene comments. If one or more of these acts apply to the bully, he or she could be given a short term of prison and immediately put on probation, along with community service and fines. Immediate school expulsion along with school board intervention is mandatory. The bully will be charged with material related to child pornography(18 U.S.C. § 2252A- certain activities relating to material constituting or containing child pornography)[10] and Threats of Violence Against Individuals,[11]. 5. Level 5 Cyberbullying. The bully distributes underage pornography of the victim, the victim physically gets severely injured by the bully or his/her accomplices, and provokes the victim to commit suicide. If any one of these acts are applied, the bully will be put in a prolonged term of prison, a heavy fine, and other punishments approved by the court. The bully will be charged with child pornography (18 U.S.C. § 2251- Sexual Exploitation of Children), maiming and mutilation(10 U.S. Code § 924),[12] and involuntary manslaughter at extreme cases (Model Penal Code § 210.3)[13]. IV. Conclusion After hours of extensive research, I maintain the belief that more severe cases of cyberbullying should be treated as a criminal offense. All of these laws regarding crime report that the offender must have ""intended to harm the victim"", and the bullies do mean to harm the victim mentally and emotionally to the point that they are physically and psychologically hurt from the bullying as well. Bullies almost always intend to hurt the victim. Logically, the bully knows what they are doing and know what their actions are, although they are blind to the consequences, which is not a valid defense for their wrongdoings. Therefore, cyberbullying is a criminal offense. I have laws, cases, and statistics to support my argument, instead of personal and mildly logical sources from my opponent. This debate's outcome has not been determined yet. I wish good luck to Con, and will await his second argument! V. Sources Note: I did not post a bibliography, as my sources are still valid, and the additional information is unnecessary and excessive for this debate. [1]http://definitions.uslegal.com... [2]http://nobullying.com... [3]http://www.usatoday.com... [4]http://www.marlinpage.com... [5]http://definitions.uslegal.com... [6]http://www.cyberbullyhotline.com... [7]http://www.pewinternet.org... [8]http://www.stopbullying.gov... [9]http://www.law.cornell.edu... [10]http://www.law.cornell.edu... [11]http://law.justia.com... [12]http://www.law.cornell.edu... [13]http://www.law.cornell.edu..."	PRO	2
2	Saeaae6a9-Ab7ef8006	Resolve: Cyberbullying should be a criminal offense	First of all, I would like to thank my opponent for allowing me to participate in this debate. Now, while I do agree that the person being bullied is stupid because it's easy to just leave, I don't think that is an excuse to cyberbully someone. My opponent has provided no reasons why she thinks cyberbullying should not be a criminal offense other than stating that the person being bullied is stupid. This, however, is not a very good excuse to bully someone. I intend to show why cyberbullying SHOULD be a criminal offense. First some definitions. Bullying - to treat abusively to affect by means of force or coercion Coercing - to restrain or dominate by force Cyber - of, relating to, or involving computers or computer networks Crime - an act or the commission of an act that is forbidden or the omission of a duty that is commanded by a public law and that makes the offender liable to punishment by that law Offense - an infraction of law Felony - a grave crime formerly differing from a misdemeanor under English common law by involving forfeiture in addition to any other punishmentAll of these definitions can be found here: http://www.merriam-webster.com... The first reason that cyberbullying should be a criminal offense is as follows. Bullying is already an offense in 44 states (http://www.cyberbullying.us...), so why shouldn't cyberbullying be an offense. It's just as bad if not worse. Think about it, with regular bullying, the person being harassed has to see the person harassing them. They can give a description, and the perpetrator can be punished. A restraining order can also be filed. With cyberbullying, a person could be harassed from across the country. While it's possible to trace the messages back to their source, the perpetrator could be long gone, or they could have used a public computer. Also, there can't be a restraining order because the person can be well outside the limits of the order, and still harass someone. Next, harassment, a major part of bullying, is a crime. Therefore, bullying is a crime, and by default, cyberbullying should be a crime. Depending on the severity of harassment, it can be a gross misdemeanor, or even a felony. Now, a felony, by definition, is a grave crime. This is not good. That's why being a convicted felon can limit job opportunities, and in cases like sexual HARASSMENT, limit where you can live. Clearly, harassment is a huge crime, and because harassment is a part of bullying, I don't need specific sources to show that bullying is a crime. Since bullying is a crime, and cyberbullying is just bullying on the computer, cyberbullying should be a crime. Therefore, the act of cyberbullying should be a criminal offense. Finally, cyber bullying should be a criminal offense because it is inhumane. Everyone has heard of cases where people have killed themselves because they were being cyberbullied. This cannot go unpunished. The perpetrator has essentially murdered a person when this happens, and should be dealt with accordingly. There is no way to say that someone who engages in cyberbullying has good intentions. They want to make the person miserable, maybe not kill them, but make them miserable none the less. My opponent cannot possibly say that it is okay to drive someone to suicide, so how can they say that it is okay to cyberbully. I rest my case until I get a response. Once again, thank you tink1017 for allowing me to partake in this debate. Vote Pro to stop the abuse. Vote Con for death and despair.	PRO	3
3	Saeaae6a9-Acba48463	Resolve: Cyberbullying should be a criminal offense	"First of all, I would like to say that I have clearly won this debate already because Con has dropped ALL of my arguments. Do to this fact, it is safe to guess that my opponent has accepted all of my arguments, and can't refute them. Next, I want to point out that when voting, I should get the points for conduct since my opponent has displayed poor conduct. She has introduced a new argument half way through the debate. What she SHOULD have done is respond to my arguments. Now, cyberbullying is not a ""petite"" offense. I have searched three sources, and all definitions of petite refer to women. I will use a better word. How about minor? So, if cyberbullying truly were a minor offense, then it wouldn't lead to mental issues, misery, and death. Bullying(a.k.a. cyberbullying) may not have any specific laws in some states(most DO have laws on bullying), but it is a direct violation to the United States constitution(all clues have pointed to this debate being in reference to US law). The US constitution guarantees EVERYONE the rights to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. In fact, these are not only rights guaranteed by the US government, they are GOD GIVEN. So, bullying is not only a violation of law in most states, it violates the rights guaranteed in the constitution, and it violates God. Now, even if cyberbullying were a minor offense, it being illegal would NOT make all minor ""things"" a criminal offense. Most people have heard this before LIFE IS NOT FAIR! Therefore, we don't have to make everything an offense. Now, here's a challenge for my opponent. Can you name at least 5 minor ""things"" that would be ""have"" to be a criminal offense if cyberbullying automatically became a criminal offense in every state? If you can, you MIGHT ( a BIG might) have a small argument. Some states not having bullying/cyberbullying as a criminal offense hardly supports my opponent. Here's why. 44 states have bullying as an offense, or have proposed it as an offense, and 30 states include electronic harassment(includes cyberbullying as far as I'm concerned). http://www.cyberbullying.us... Most states, therefore, are in agreement with me, and it doesn't matter if 6 states agree with my opponent because the vastly overwhelming majority agree with me. I'd also like to point out that you don't create a law in a day, there could be plans to discuss making bullying a criminal offense, and the law just hasn't been proposed yet. So, for all we know, all states COULD be in agreement with me. We know that the reverse cannot be true for my opponent. Essentially my opponent has said to suck it up when someone is making your life miserable and driving you to suicide. How sadistic can a human possibly be? Now my opponent has said that you should talk it out. This is not always possible. Ever heard of post traumatic stress disorder? Shell shock? Soldier's heart? They are all things that occur when a person becomes extremely terrified. The three terms I used refer to different wars, but the point is the same. These occurrences couldn't be talked out of it. They are affected FOREVER. You cannot always ""talk it out"". Cyberbullying is not a mistake. A mistake is taking a wrong turn or accidentally saying something embarrassing about someone. In both instances what has been done can be undone. In psychological cases, effects are permanent. Intentional bullying is NO MISTAKE! The perpetrator is intentionally making the life of another human miserable. This cannot be allowed. A person is embarrassing or harassing someone over and over is not a mistake. If you accidentally do something bad, and apologize for it, then there is no punishment. THAT would be a mistake, but over and over? No. Finally, outlawing cyberbullying permanently wouldn't make everything fall to pieces, it would make things better. Less people would commit suicide, they would be happier, and the God given rights listed in the constitution would be left intact. I extend all of my previous arguments since none of them have been argued. FYI: I'm kind of sorry that I was able to spend so many characters rebutting one paragraph. This is because I should have had more to rebut, and I should have had to defend my arguments, but no. Con was unable to do anything other then post one measly new argument. Vote Pro to stop the abuse. Vote Con for death and despair."	PRO	4
4	Saeaae6a9-Adc677ed7	Resolve: Cyberbullying should be a criminal offense	cyberbullying should not be a criminal offense because if petite items like this were considered a criminal offense than everything else to that minority would also receive criminal offenses to be logically fair.... some states are in aggrement with me BECAUSE they have not passed particular laws to substain this criminal offense. Everyone needs to get a grip on reality and face the difficulties and when the going gets tough talk it out...	CON	5
5	Saeaae6a9-Aad73ed1e	Resolve: Cyberbullying should be a criminal offense	"I believe that cyberbullying shouldnot be a criminal offense because in most cases children and or adults are just being plain out STUPID. I think this ""offender"" should be punished to the minimal agree at first attempt and the punishment should be severe enough to make them realize what is happening to them to cause this. They could maybe get placed into a simple sort of rehabillitaion center until doctors and or specialists are center of this......."	CON	6
6	S1b363f0c-A7e275663	Individuals should only be held responsible for the consequences of their own actions	In any free and democratic society, criminal law should only hold people accountable for the things they do, not for the actions of others. We are all autonomous, moral agents who make decisions and have to live with their consequences and the consequences of our actions. While it might be justified to punish bullies for their bullying behavior, if it breaks the law, we cannot hold them accountable for another person’s decision to commit suicide.  	PRO	7
7	S1b363f0c-Aba2ef1dd	The law should always punish actions that inflict serious harm - whether physical or psychological	 Bullying can inflict serious psychological harm on its victims, especially in the case of young people. It leads to low self-esteem, depression, and for some kids it leads to suicide[1].  Bullied children are almost 6 times more likely to think about or attempt suicide[2]. This phenomenon has been termed ‘bullycide’ and the law should recognize it. Many forms of behaviour that result in the death of another person are criminal, from murder to negligence. It is the duty of the law to brand such behaviour as unacceptable, deter future incidents, punish the perpetrators, and offer comfort to victims: in this case, the families of those who lost their life to bullying.      [1] O'Moore, Mona, “Understanding School Bullying: A Guide for Parents & Teachers”, Veritas, 1, Dublin, 2010 [2] Kim YS, Leventhal BL, Koh YJ, Boyce WT “Bullying Increased Suicide Risk: Prospective Study of Korean Adolescents”. Arch Suicide Res. Vol. 13, No. 1, pp15-30. 2009. 	PRO	8
8	S564603a4-Aa532ad77	The death penalty should exist.	Thankyou for debating me on this topic. I am Pro (for) the death penalty. I do not advocate everyone is deserving of the death penalty, only someone who is destructive of some ones life, i.e; Murderer, Rapist, Child abuser... or anyone who has committed something directly to a person that has left them severely damaged either physically, emotionally or sexually. My reasoning as to why someone should receive the death penalty is...: A, The criminal refuses psychological help. B, The criminal can find loop holes to eventually get back into normal society. C, The criminal does not show remorse for the crime. D, The criminal is suspected or admits to re-offenses if let out. E, The criminal causes more crimes within the prison. F, The criminal has an overly short crime sentence for the crime. (suspected of getting a good deal) Obviously, as I said previously, I only advocate the death penalty, or at least death row for criminals who is under those categories. And who has lead a person to be severely damaged physically, emotionally or sexually on purpose. These people who are just bad people, even though they most likely got the short end of the stick growing up and had a horrible life, possibly being subjected to the same torment and are simply in the vampire effect stage, are not fit to be in society. I have debated a few other people on the subject of education, free will and rights for adolescents and animals. In all of these I have used the same argument and I believe it's fitting for this one also. In society, we have all agreed to, with or without knowing, that to be in society we must comply with the law, some are grey and we break them often; speeding, drug use etc. But others are black and white; rape, murder, abuse etc. We all agree that the last 3 are not fit for our society and we condemn those who commit such acts; that means that we all agree that the people who commit these crimes should be put in an isolated environment that is monitored to make sure they stay there. The problem I have is that a lot of paedophiles get released and re-offend, same thing with rapists and sometimes murderers (usually in gangs or cults though, or just psychopaths). If we were all assured that they would live comfortably under surveillance without the knowledge of public events for the rest of their life, being treated with doctors and psychologists appropriately, then a lot of us would be completely okay with that. Also, the criminals should be working within the prison in a confined area (so they enter with nothing but clothes and leave with nothing but clothes, so they can't make weapons etc.) with no payment. However, after a while we have to consider... why does a criminal get the best of both worlds? Someone who ruined someone's life or broke up a family gets to live in peace? And our tax payer money gets to give them this luxury? Why do they get to live happily while these people are miserable? We know the victims go through depression, anxiety, stress, a lot commit suicide. At what point do you put justice over mercy? If we painlessly remove them from the world we can all live knowing there is no chance of them getting out and re-offending again. If there is some part of my argument, please address it separately in the same post and I will adhere and apply anything you specifically dislike or don't want in our debate. Thanks. Kryptic. This is my argument, I will now pass it over to Con.	PRO	9
9	S99be9510-Ace09a285	Should juveniles be tried as adults	"Being tried as adults is intrinsically harmful to society and the children themselves. https://www.splcenter.org... ""Research has shown that children in the adult criminal justice system are 34 percent more likely to be arrested again than those convicted of similar offenses in juvenile court. They also are 36 times more likely to commit suicide than youth in juvenile facilities."" Children's brains do not fully develop until the age of around twenty , and their rational thinking skills are last to develop, meaning juveniles have a higher ability to rehabilitate. http://www.cnn.com... ""researchers for the MacArthur Foundation Research Network on Adolescent Development and Juvenile Justice found that teenagers are less blameworthy than adults, and that their capacities change significantly over the course of adolescence. The researchers found what many of us were trying to say years earlier about Cameron Kocher: that at the age of 9, he simply couldn't process information and plan a crime like an adult. The MacArthur Foundation Research Network recognized that legal sanctions for misbehavior should not be based only on the harm a youth causes, but on the youth's culpability."" The goal of juvenile detention ought to be corrections and rehabilitations rather than punishment, as juveniles have more chances to improve as their brains are still growing and maturing and they have a long life ahead."	CON	10
10	S6eefc0cc-Ac9c36002	The Death Penalty should be legal	"== What is my advocacy? == My advocacy is simple -- abolish capital punishment. The resolution is vague. When the resolution says ""the death penalty should be legal,"" it doesn't specify *where* Pro intends it to be legal. I can only presume everywhere. Therefore, I observe that, if I can prove that capital punishment should not be legal in even one place, the resolution is negated. Thus, the plan text: universally abolish capital punishment in the United States. This abolition of capital action does not include killing in action (e.g. police officers killing wanted criminal suspects in extenuating circumstances), or neutralization of active criminals (e.g. the killing of Osama bin Laden). All my plan will abolish is the sentencing of a convict to death by a jury due to the committing of a crime, after arrest and trial. == Net benefits == (1) Prevention of psychological damage People perform executions. And this has severe adverse effects. Empirical research demonstrates that executioners suffer from intense psychological damage as a result of them executing criminals. [1] ""Every execution requires a team of executioners who watch the inmate in his or her final days, who strap the inmate to the gurney, who insert and reinsert the needles, and who remove the inmate from the gurney following the execution. They are the ones who deal with botched executions, who struggle with inmates fighting to stay alive, and who pull inmates away from their families when it is time for their final goodbye."" [1] New Jersey's last executioner, and New York's prior executioner, both committed suicide as result of clinical depression that resulted from executions. ""Executioners and wardens in Mississippi and Alabama all attributed their mental and physical health problems to their involvement with lethal injection."" [1] Other empirical research also confirms that executioners suffer from psychological damage due to executions. [2] Jerry Givens, a former Virginia executioner, remarked, ""The people who do the executions, they're the ones who suffer through it."" [3] There are also multiple other witnesses to executions. All of them also often suffer from psychological problems, and have often committed suicide. ""Carol Pickett, a minister who witnessed almost 100 executions in Texas, attributed his severe health problems to the stress involved with executions."" [1] Journalists witness executions, and studies have reported on the emergence of anxiety symptoms among journalists who recently witnessed an execution. [1] Executions, in the process of psychological damage, create new victims. Robert Meeropol's parents were executed when he was six years old, and he only survived because of a supportive community. He still has the psychological damage that resulted. [1] ""Felicia Floyd was just a child when her father murdered her mother in Georgia. When many years later, the State executed him for that crime, she felt victimized all over again."" [1] Thus, the psychological damage caused by the death penalty is severe, causing clinical depression and suicide. (2) Reducing fiscal cost Empirical research has proven that the costs of the death penalty are immense, and outweigh that of life without parole (LWOP) cases. Data from Georgia shows that a capital case, which considers punishing a crime with capital punishment, costs around $2 million more than a non-capital case. [4] They involve, on average, five times more pre trial motions, five times more investigation by the defense team, 66 times longer to select and finalize a jury, 30 days more in court, twice as many lawyers, and longer and more complicated appeals. [4] In Georgia, a decision to seek the death penalty and a capital case can, individually, cost $3 million. [5] A study by the Loyola Law School reports that, since 1978, the current system of capital punishment in California has cost the city's taxpayers $4 billion *more* than that of life without parole cases. [6] ""Recent studies reveal that if the current system is maintained, Californians will spend an additional $5 billion to $7 billion over the cost of LWOP to fund the broken system between now and 2050."" [6] The California state debt in 2014 was 778 billion dollars, which means capital punishment is a huge waste of California's money. Since 1998, the state of Washington has spent $120 million on 5 prisoners on the death row, equating to a $24 million court system cost per person. [7] The state has a debt of $89.6 billion. The state of Maryland spent $186 million over five executions, meaning *each* of the five executions costed, on average, $37.2 million in the state, while the state debt is 94 billion dollars. [8] A study commissioned by the Nevada legislature says that a capital case in Nevada costs ~$500,000 more than a non-capital case. ""Adjudicating death penalty cases takes more time and resources compared to murder cases where the death penalty sentence is not pursued as an option. These cases are more costly because there are procedural safeguards in place to ensure the sentence is just and free from error."" [9] (3) Extradition The death penalty poses a significant barrier to extraditing terrorist suspects to the United States. Many countries, including the entirety of the European Union, have established a policy of not extraditing criminal suspects or criminals to the US if there is a possibility that the criminal might be given capital punishment, as those countries view it as a human rights violation. [10] This refusal to extradite impedes the United States' counter-terrorism efforts. [11] In 2005, the EU refused to extradite terrorist suspect ""Mohammed A."" for this reason. [11] (4) Customary international law The US is the *only* western country to retain the death penalty. Due to this, the US can be seen to endorse capital punishment. Multiple US citizens have, for example, been executed by the government of Singapore (and other strict governments) due to *nonviolent* offenses, e.g. possession of drugs. If the US abolishes the death penalty, then multiple countries will be seen as violating customary international law by executing a US citizen, a citizen of a country that does not support capital punishment. Without capital punishment, we can save American tourists. The impact is huge. Singapore has executed 400 people for minor offenses, most of them foreign. [12] Similarly, China has executed 53,000 people for minor offenses, many of them foreigners. [12] == Racism and prejudice == Many people in the US criminal justice system are executed by juries that discriminate based on ethnicity, and multiple other, irrelevant, factors. According to a study, ""jurors in Washington are three times more likely to recommend a death sentence for a black defendant than for a white defendant in a similar case. The study examined 285 cases in which defendants were convicted of aggravated murder. The cases were analyzed for factors that might influence sentencing, including the number of victims, the prior criminal record of the defendant, and the number of aggravating factors alleged by the prosecutor."" [13] In Louisiana, it is more likely for a person who killed a white to be executed than one who killed a black. ""Even after considering other variables such as the number of aggravating circumstances, the number of concurrent felonies and the number of homicide victims, the odds of a death sentence were 97% higher for those whose victim was white than for those whose victim was black."" [14] Socioeconomic status also matters. ""Poor people are also far more likely to be death sentenced than those who can afford the high costs of private investigators, psychiatrists, and expert criminal lawyers."" [15] A Supreme Court justice remarked, ""This Court declared that the death penalty must be imposed fairly . . . or not at all, and, despite the effort of the states and courts . . . the death penalty remains fraught with arbitrariness, discrimination, caprice, and mistake."" With such prejudice in the criminal justice system, it would be highly discriminatory to retain capital punishment. For these reasons, vote Con. == Sources == [1] http://tinyurl.com... [2] http://tinyurl.com... [3] http://abcnews.go.com... [4] Thaxton, Sherod. ""Leveraging Death,"" Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology, 2013 [5] http://tinyurl.com... [6] http://tinyurl.com... [7] http://tinyurl.com... [8] http://www.urban.org... [9] http://tinyurl.com... [10] http://tinyurl.com... [11] http://tinyurl.com... [12] http://tinyurl.com... [13] http://www.deathpenaltyinfo.org... [14] http://tinyurl.com... [15] https://www.aclu.org..."	CON	11
11	S9a4f3541-Afc8f088e	Cyber bullying should be a criminal offense	I can only assume that Con has given up on this debate. Overall, his argument had depth, but was too messy. Regardless, take that conduct point off, voters.	PRO	12
12	S9a4f3541-A305e0ebb	Cyber bullying should be a criminal offense	Enough said.	PRO	13
13	Saeaae6a9-Aca27b66	Resolve: Cyberbullying should be a criminal offense	Since my opponent has not posted an argument, I will let my last statements from R2 act as my closing statements. For this round, I will end the debate by giving my opinion of a vote breakdown. Agree Before - That is a matter of opinion, and your choice. Agree After - That is also a matter of opinion, and your choice. Better Conduct - Me because my opponent made a new argument late in the debate, and they forfeited their final round. Spelling and Grammar - Me, I used word and my opponent has 4 errors whereas I have only one. Convincing Arguments - Me, my opponent didn't refute a single argument of mine, and even went so far as to post new ones in place, which I swiftly dismantled Better sources - Me, my opponent didn't use any sources. Just remember, this is my opinion. The choice is always yours. Thank you for reading this debate. Vote Pro to stop the abuse. Vote Con for death and despair.	PRO	14
14	S1dc2d3b2-A3f96f180	The I. C. C. (International Criminal Court) should try American war criminals for war crimes.	"Before we get into the complications of this geopolitical matter, I'd like to thank Hooman of all users for his response to this challenge considering his appreciation for both quantitative and qualitative dialogue that is not common throughout this website. Without further ado, We first need to understand the context of the International Criminal Court, Based on what has preceded the institution's foundation and likewise followed it. There have been a wide variety of international treaties regulating the laws of war to help protect the interests of oppressed groups ever since the implementation of the Geneva and Hague Conventions spanning all the way back to the former's original implementation in 1864. These treaties have defined the specifics of war crimes, Clarify what those actions entail, And commonly did so with the signatures of major imperial western powers, Albeit some times neglecting the approval of the respective empire stemming from Washington D. C. With the exception of the fourth Geneva convention, And the four document examinations that further regulated and adjusted what made up International Law, These documents had already become mainstream by the time of the Second Great War. That is not to say that the belligerents followed the requested guidelines, Especially the ones that made up the Axis powers. All educated members of society who do not follow extreme radical ideologies to this day recognize the significance of the massive atrocities of the Holocaust, Whose initiators who did not commit suicide preceding the capitulation the Third Reich found themselves either tried at Nuremberg (like Goering, Bormann and Donitz) or at a certain other location for their activities during the war. This is truly when American hypocrisy is first shown as a decisive force in ever-changing political dialogues and social changes that we now see today. It is obvious that the German, And the Japanese (we'll get to that a little later) war crimes were significantly worse than that of the ones committed by the Allied Powers, And that is ever the more clear when we see the ignorance on the latter's existence. Crimes are still crimes, And all should be talked about, However. The Soviets committed a wide variety of alleged illicit acts during the six year bombardment of weaponry across the soil of the European continent. The Katyn massacre, The invasion of Estonia, Latvia, And Lithuania, The bombing of Helsinki, The NKVD prison massacres, And the mass rape of Berlin still leave a handful of undesirable executive decisions unmentioned and ignored. Less severely but still significantly important are the crimes the American government would have punished their opposition for commiting if possible. These would include the massive wide conventional civilian air raids on Japanese Civilians, Preceding that of the much more commonly understood atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. At the time of the Nuremberg trials, The U. S. Alongside France, The United Kingdom, And the Soviet Union all appointed judges and prosecutors to oversee the investigations and punishments suitable for twenty four notable men of the failed state. These individuals were indicted for four notable offenses, Ranging from war crimes to crimes against humanity and interestingly, ""planning, Initiating and waging wars of aggression and other crimes against peace"" and ""participation in a common plan or conspiracy for the accomplishment of a crime against peace"". The latter two are most especially unique as they seem very comparable to the actions of the U. S. Government in places such as Iran (1953), Iraq (2003, Yemen (present day), Latin, Central, And South America (1900's-present) and the Middle East (1900's onwards. ) Finally, In 1950 came the creation of the Nuremberg Principles which are as follows: Principles of International Law Recognized in the Charter of the N""rnberg Tribunal and in the Judgment of the Tribunal Principle I Any person who commits an act which constitutes a crime under international law is responsible therefor and liable to punishment. Principle II The fact that internal law does not impose a penalty for an act which constitutes a crime under international law does not relieve the person who committed the act from responsibility under international law. Principle III The fact that a person who committed an act which constitutes a crime under international law acted as Head of State or responsible Government official does not relieve him from responsibility under international law. Principle IV The fact that a person acted pursuant to order of his Government or of a superior does not relieve him from responsibility under international law, Provided a moral choice was in fact possible to him. Principle V Any person charged with a crime under international law has the right to a fair trial on the facts and law. Principle VI The crimes hereinafter set out are punishable as crimes under international law: (a) Crimes against peace: (i) Planning, Preparation, Initiation or waging of a war of aggression or a war in violation of international treaties, Agreements or assurances; (ii) Participation in a common plan or conspiracy for the accomplishment of any of the acts mentioned under (i). (b) War crimes: Violations of the laws or customs of war which include, But are not limited to, Murder, Ill- treatment or deportation to slave-labour or for any other purpose of civilian population of or in occupied territory, Murder or ill-treatment of prisoners of war, Of persons on the seas, Killing of hostages, Plunder of public or private property, Wanton destruction of cities, Towns, Or villages, Or devastation not justified by military necessity. (c) Crimes against humanity: Murder, Extermination, Enslavement, Deportation and other inhuman acts done against any civilian population, Or persecutions on political, Racial or religious grounds, When such acts are 2 done or such persecutions are carried on in execution of or in connection with any crime against peace or any war crime. Principle VII Complicity in the commission of a crime against peace, A war crime, Or a crime against humanity as set forth in Principle VI is a crime under international law. To ensure that all nations would follow the laws of war, The Security Council of the United Nations was created. Unfortunately, However, The five member states with the power to block any resolution despite the wishes of the other fourteen members (China, U. S. , France, The United Kingdom and Russia/Soviet Union) have often been the main pursuers of crimes against peace and the main nations to commit war crimes. To partially subside this, The International Criminal Court was founded. Its members support the idea of universal jurisdiction, But this agreement only has the support of one hundred twenty three sovereign states, Not including the United States, China or Russia. The U. S. Alongside China and Russia, However, Have supported the referral of the Libyan situation of 2011 to the ICC. Noam Chomsky in 2003 did an excellent job upon being interviewed on his claim that all post-war presidents would be indicted if the Nuremberg Principles were upheld. I would advise all to watch the video as it is still relevant to this day. The two circumstances that are most deeply problematic to me involving the United State's foreign policy would be that of the invasion of Iraq in 2003, And the civilian targeting of the Yemeni populous right this very second. I would argue that Bush, Rumsfeld and Cheney (the troika of tyranny as Wolfgang Kaleck would call them) should be tried for waging crimes against peace for the invasion of Iraq. The regime of Saddam Hussein was not a threat to the sovereignty of American soil, And thus any unilateral invasion would be a war of aggression. The further explanation for such conflict involving the claim that Saddam, 1/Was involved in 9/11, Or 2/Had weapons of mass destruction was a lie. My wordcount is up."	PRO	15
15	S1dc2d3b2-A1392e076	The I. C. C. (International Criminal Court) should try American war criminals for war crimes.	"Firstly, I appreciate that the opposition is taking a logical position on this matter, Instead of simply taking a typical Neo-con style narrative argument where the sole contents of the passages is to fear monger about a nation that is considered within in the boundaries of either the ""Axis of Evil, ""Beyond the Axis of Evil"", Or the Latin American ""troika of tyranny"". Regardless, All three points given instead of that propaganda are all flawed (in my opinion). The first claims that the U. S. Should not be party to the International Criminal Court solely due to some sort of decimation of the courts legitimacy after having such a powerful, Imperialist nation rest in the Netherlands alongside the existing members. While this of course is current practice in the existing institutions, Only an independently minded President, With an independently minded Department of Justice, With an independently minded Federal Bureau of Investigation would permit the recognition of such a ""radical"" body to even enter mainstream political dialogue. This reformed executive branch would not be the kind to hijack a international body to anything above a minimal extent. This scenarios implementation is heavily unlikely, And could be dismissed due to it currently not fitting on any centralized Overton Window, But the same could have been said about proposals made by revolutionaries who fought for justice in the 19th century for the abolition of slavery, And for what are commonly perceived as standard workers protections. Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security, The Civil Rights Movement, Space exploration, And the current left wing prepositions suggested by Bernie Sanders were at first deemed as insane when they were first flirted. Since we both acknowledge the crimes of this nation, We should not dismiss the idea of justice for those who have committed these atrocities. Americans are told that no one resting on their soil is above the law, And that sadly is not true at this moment. As you present largely the same argument in the second passage, We can move on to the third. I would actually much prefer the indictment and prosecution of American war criminals to occur on U. S. Soil, And due to the recent convictions that the Mueller probe has normalized I believe that could be possible following a certain social and cultural transitional period where the people fully examine and look back and judge properly. Unfortunately, Their is a very high chance that regardless of what leads up to such criminal convictions, The next president could simply pardon all of the felons at any point in their administration. This can be seen with the Iran-Contra scandal, Where many people who were punished for their acts under the Reagan administration were simply pardoned or granted clemency during George HW Bush's tenure and some even promoted back into government later on (Elliott Abrams is one example). It appears that you are a very well educated individual, Simply taking the inevitable realist position. I, For one often reject common political norms and some of those political positions I held may indeed be doomed to succeed as you'd say. I still feel proper cases have a right to be made, Even if they will quickly find themselves in the ash heap of history."	PRO	16
16	S1b363f0c-Ab2e5230d	It is difficult to make a direct, legally sound link between a bully's behaviour and a victim's suicide	Many of the children and adolescents who take their own lives allegedly as a result of bullying have a far more complicated background. Some already struggle with depression, and have unstable family situations that make it hard to turn to their parents for help with their problems. Phoebe Prince, for example, was taking anti-depressants, was devastated by her parents’ divorce, was self harming, and had already attempted suicide after a break up. And that was long before she was allegedly bullied to death[1]. She was a very troubled young woman, and anything could have pushed her over the edge. It would be hard to find the bullies criminally responsible for her death.   [1] Bazelon, Emily. “What Really Happened to Phoebe Prince? Entry 2”. Slate. July 20. 2010. http://www.slate.com/articles/life/bulle/features/2010/what_really_happe...	PRO	17
17	S13966fe3-A956686d8	The United States should not have any laws limiting access to guns.	"""First, 77% of crimes committed in America are do(n)e by those with prior criminal record, {1} and it is already illegal for felons to own guns- so banning everyone else from having guns will have no effect on the demographic which accounts for the majority of the crimes my opponent says such a ban would prevent. It's like if I said that my neighbor Bob might kill his wife (despite having no reason to believe this), so I tie up and disarm Bob's wife- it makes no sense."" I have some doubts about your source here - it has a slant to the libertarian right - but it does seem credible. Also, first-time offenses, suicide, and accidental manslaughter are not affected. Finally, a national license and background check requirement would prevent repeat offenders from obtaining illegal guns from legal shops which do not perform these checks. ""Second, under our legal system, you are supposed to be innocent until proven guilty- and banning people from owning guns because they might misuse ther guns violates this principle."" I am not proposing a ban on guns - I am proposing that people be required to undergo thorough training and a background check prior to obtaining them. This means judging their guilt (and also avoiding potential accidental manslaughter) ""Third of all, my opponents sources are very unreliable- the first is in the opinion section, and the second is not a study, but a blogger who purposely falsified and cherrypicked data from an FBI report, and wikipedia. "" My LA Times article did cite one study regarding this, so it cannot be entirely dismissed. There are other sources that could be mentioned as well. CDC data shows that states with poor gun legislation have high homicide rates - http://smartgunlaws.org... 2000 terror suspects buy guns in a year (autoplay warning) - http://www.nydailynews.com... Gun owners are likely to use guns in violent crime http://www.vpc.org..."	CON	18
18	S1dc2d3b2-A33ee14e1	The I. C. C. (International Criminal Court) should try American war criminals for war crimes.	"This is a wonderfully complex topic, And I agree to Pro's definitions of what constitutes the International Criminal Court. Sorry for the slightly out of order source material. Just follow the numbers to see what connects to where. I understand the outline of the Pro's case as trying to show the moral goodness of what the ICC was trying to accomplish, And that therefore the US is morally obligated to try and follow it. I disagree for the following reasons. Rebuttals will follow this round as originally outlined, So I will not speak specifically on Pro""s case. As for the Con points of argument, I will go for 3 main contentions. Contentions: 1. Impossible implementation This argument is mainly analytical. The US has notably already broken plenty of international regulatory agreements, And as one of the most powerful members of the UN generally punishment has not been enforced. International regulation as a whole acts more like ""guidelines"" than actual international law. Pro reasonably agrees that the purpose of the ICC was ""To ensure that all nations would follow the laws of war""(Pro, Round 1). That was the original idea, And yes, It""s a grand idea, But international regulations have a history of falling flat. Especially in connection with the Geneva convention, Practically every state that has had a war since agreeing to uphold these ""rules of war"" have violated them at some point with little to no retribution, Even the US (sourced case of the Korean war, And later the Vietnam war)(5). The single biggest problem with the ICC is that its grounded in a utopia fantasy where ideas are implemented exactly like they sound on paper. The UN is an example of how international regulations aren""t fair. The UN security counsel holds all the power, With the US and its allies being the main movers of policy to benefit themselves. Under the UN, The US already should have been held accountable for numerous violations of all kinds of laws, Likewise many US allies, But nothing happens. Why? Because the US and its allies are the ones that control everything, And no one wants to convict themselves internationally. The ICC would do nothing different. 2. International disputes and ridicule Two subpoints to this one. subpoint1 - Security, Economic risk, Public embarrassment Joining the ICC would make USA vs the world, Used to embarrass the US and twisted to meet international political agendas""leading to bad press, Maybe trade sanctions to hurt economy, And international prisons for former US American presidents, Which would theoretically be indited under the claims of some of Pro""s evidence (see Noam Chomsky). Imagine how insane that would look"" the US handing over 3 or 4 of its former presidents to the international community saying, ""here, Do what you""d like with these guys. It""s not like they know incredibly important national secrets or anything. I guess you can imprison them in Russia or something if you all really want to. "" The security risk to extradite high-ranking military officers freely to the international community is WAY too high to make an international court case even worth the risk. Being embarrassed doesn't sound like such a big deal for us as private citizens, But it""s a huge thing for a whole country to undergo international ridicule. Who would be the first to accuse the US? Russia, China, And other political enemies for sure. Whole government coverups and wars have been put together to avoid even domestic ridicule from policy slip-ups, And there""s no way that America would be willing to put itself through painful disputes and accusations on an even bigger scale with no benefit to itself. Pro may just be referencing the moral and admirable need for individuals to take accountability for their actions, But the US government understands that those individuals"" actions are much bigger than themselves and bring national shame to the state. I argue that this is one of the reasons that there are already existing laws preventing the US from contributing to the international court. ""It is important to note that our government is prevented by certain laws such as the""American Service-Members"" Protection Act of 2002""from providing direct monetary assistance to the court""""(2) US Ambassador Stephen Rapp made these same arguments but in a more farvorable light, Saying ""long-standing political and philosophical traditions in our country have prevented us from joining the ICC"" (2). Basically the US don""t wanna have their service members pegged. subpoint 2 - Power imbalance Not only that, But we realize that, Should America suddenly join the ICC, It would be the UN security counsel all over again. The USA would have ridiculous influence, Being the biggest superpower, And would be able to reject any dockets or accusations that it didn""t like. This is exactly what the US pushed for a decade or two back. ""The Clinton administration participated actively in negotiations towards the International Criminal Court treaty, Seeking Security Council screening of cases. If adopted, This would have enabled the US to veto any dockets it opposed. When other countries refused to agree to such an unequal standard of justice, The US campaigned to weaken and undermine the court. ""(1) By joining the US would forge its own get-out-of-jail free card. Similar to contention 1, It simply wouldn""t be implemented in a good way, And would only cause great controversy. 3. Alternative to ICC-- punish American war crimes under American law The other biggest contention against the Pro case is that the ICC is totally unnecessary. Were war crimes in various instances committed by the US government? Almost certainly. ""Tribunal members unanimously found the United States ""guilty on all charges""""(3) for various war crimes in the International War Crimes Tribunal's second session in 1967. One of the them said ""Russell often stated that he was inspired by the Nuremberg trials""(3) for his accusations against the USA in this case. But, The government has generally covered this kind of stuff up. To make war-criminals pay for their actions we need more domestic, Not international, Policy and pressure. By electing the right people, Doing court cases domestically is way less of a headache and is much more easily implementable. Domestic judicial reformation is the only real viable way to seek justice against American war criminals. I support this author's call for accountability when talking about US crimes in Operation Condor. "". . . That is the kind of reckoning we need in this country. It started with the release of a summary of the Senate Intelligence Committee's report on the CIA""s torture program, Which brought many brutal details into the light. But that""s just the beginning. We would need a full and public accounting not just of the CIA's activities, But of the doings of other military and civilian agencies and outfits, Including the Joint Special Operations Command. "" (4) By pulling more out to light like Edward Snowden, It""s possible to make this an issue, Then produce the political clout needed to form effective judicial reform. (1)""https://www. Globalpolicy. Org. . . (2)https://thehumanist. Com. . . (3)https://www. Nytimes. Com. . . (4)https://www. Thenation. Com. . . (5)https://www. Theguardian. Com. . ."	CON	19
19	Sfe78c1c3-A7cdef488	Dueling should be legalized	"Thanks for your thought-provoking arguments. I take no issue with any of the definitions you've added, thanks for the clarification. Now on to my rebuttals... ==Rebuttal: Dueling is Counter to the State's Interest in the Preservation of Sapient Life== --Rebuttal: On Social Good and the Preservation of Sapient Life-- Concerning your argument in regards to preservation of life and how individual contributions impact society as a whole, I would argue that this reduces human beings to machines without personal interests and ignores individual rights. If taken to its logical conclusion it could be used to justify any number of violations of personal autonomy on behalf of the state for the benefit of the collective. Further, one could apply that argument to actually be in favour of legalizing dueling, so long as the casualties of dueling are considered to have an overall negative impact on society. And if, as you suggest, duration of life is an important aspect of quality of life, and quality of life is something the state should pursue at the expense of individual rights, then the sort of individual who would willingly engage in a duel is willing to produce a negative effect on society and therefore duelists killing one another would be ridding society of negative influencers. --Rebuttal: On Suicide and Self-Harm-- You wrote that ""if we disallow suicide and self-harm for this reason, then by extension we must also disallow dueling, which has an identical effect save for it being assisted by a third party."" This might have been a compelling line of argument except for the fact that, contrary to your implication, suicide itself is legal in the majority of liberal democracies, including (but not limited to) the US, Canada, Australia, England, Germany (1). Now, I understand that alternatively you could have been referencing mental health related laws permitting suicide prevention by authorities and forcible hospitalization of actively suicidal patients. But I would respond that there is a fundamental difference between intervention when someone is not of sound mind and is unable to make rational, autonomous decisions, and premeditated decisions in which an individual is fully cognizant of the consequences of their actions. Increasingly, legal systems in liberal democracies seem to be recognizing that as well, as in recent years there has been increasing legalization of assisted suicide globally (2). ==Rebuttal: Dueling is Unusually Vulnerable to Exploitation Against Personal Interest via Undue Influence== I'm glad you brought up emotionally compromised states and legal contracts. Because it is actually a function of, and a defense of, dueling that it would require affirmative consent and a legal contract to undertake. This would mean duress (3), undue influence (3), unconscionably (4) and other defenses in contract law would apply. Parties would have to go through the process of obtaining and signing contracts and could be held criminally and civilly liable if they injured or killed an opponent in a duel under a contract that was found to be inequitable. Therefore, both parties have an interest in ensuring they both enter the duel in a condition of sound mind and in a voluntary fashion. The process of having to do this would also constitute a ""cooling off"" period in which participants can let initial emotions subside to an extent and properly determine whether they want to commit to the course of action. Dueling is intended to settle grudges and grievances, but they are conducted under controlled circumstances in accordance with rules and are not heat-of-the-moment street fights. Where ""entrapment"" potential against skilled duelists is concerned, a contract formation period would give the other party a chance to research their opponent and determine if they want to withdraw on the basis of being over-matched (albeit with a loss of face). Legalized dueling accompanied by a proper contract system and enforcement would also enable the rise of ""professional duelists"" who could be hired to duel skilled duelists with histories of provoking people. Eventually it would be would prove dangerous to go around trying to provoke people into dueling, regardless of one's skill level. If anything, legalized dueling would provide a process and safeguards that would serve as an alternative to more reactive and ill-conceived expressions of violence. ==Rebuttal: Dueling, Unlike ""Safe"" Methods of Conflict, Inflicts Egregious Externalities on Interested Parties== This goes back to the initial argument on social good and the preservation of sapient life. I reject the argument that debts and personal obligations to third parties obligate a human being to take every possible step to preserve their own existence at the expense of personal autonomy. I'll note that this same argument could be applied to a range of dangerous lifestyle activities (I provided examples in my opening so I'll refer readers back to them instead of repeating them). If one is to apply this logic to dueling, could they not apply it to arguing that the state should forcibly impose specific dietary and exercise programs on the populace, while denying the right to engage in lifestyle choices that are arguably harmful? At what point do these impositions that are supposed to improve ""quality of life"" end up infringing on personal autonomy to the point that quality of life is reduced as the population live under stressfully excessive restrictions on their freedom? ==Rebuttal: Initial Conclusion== (1) http://mentalhealthdaily.com... (2) http://medicalxpress.com... (3) http://www.inbrief.co.uk... (4) https://www.law.cornell.edu..."	PRO	20
20	S965182df-A4eabafd1	All drugs should be legalized.	Thanks for the reply Pro. A late Merry Christmas to you as well. R.1 Freedom of choice This part is quite interesting as this is exactly what my argument was about in regards to morality. Apparently, my opponent disregarded my entire morality section, and continued with his view of morality. My opponent implied that my morality section was useless, yet continued with the exact same subject I had. I had even quoted this in my arguments a possible thought that my opponent had, yet my opponent did not even bother to read that. However, I will repeat what I claimed earlier. Recall, on balance legalizing drugs will have a huge concern on public safety, specifically that drugs are related to crime. Therefore, if we distribute these substances to the public we will see decreased productivity, and increased crime. It is true that people should be able to impact their own lifestyle however this is not the case. Legalizing drugs is a potential threat to public safety, the economy, and loved ones. This is the reason why, if drugs are a threat to others, then they should not be available to the public despite the fact people should be able to do whatever they want to their own body. Also, drugs are highly addictive. Once you take them, you simply cannot let go, and it is nearly impossible to do so. It is almost similar to suicide without any help. There is no beneficial outcome from a federal point of view to legalize drugs! it is the exact opposite. R.2 Cost I had also included this is my argument, yet my opponent chooses to disregard that as well. However, I will repeat what I had in my previous argument. Dug advocates claim that the money used for drugs can be used for other things, as America spends billions of dollars for drug trafficking. However, this is the DEA’s response. (1) “Ask legalization proponents if the alleged profits from drug legalization would be enough to pay for the increased fetal defects, loss of workplace productivity, increased traffic fatalities and industrial accidents, increased domestic violence and the myriad other problems that would not only be high-cost items but extremely expensive in terms of social decay” -One of the purposes to legalize drugs is to use drug trafficking money for good use -The money will not even cover the damages to legalizing drugs! -In the end, you had an intention to put the money to good use, yet the money will not even cover the damage R.3 Prison rates 60 - 80% of drug abusers commit a new crime (typically a drug-driven crime) after release from prison Approximately 95% return to drug abuse after release from prison. (2) This shows that prisons are actually ineffective as 95% of users return to drug abuse. Now, apply that to a larger scale. If an entire country were to give out drugs, and many people were to resort to crime due to the drugs, there is simply no way to give any type of punishment, as far as the government is concerned. There will be simply no way to stop the madness. R.4 Race disparity I am not going to go too much into this simply because I have no real objection to this. However, I would like to address a couple of points. I cannot see how this how this helps my opponent. According to the BJS non-Hispanic blacks accounted for 54.4% of the prison and jail population in 2009. Non-Hispanic blacks also have the highest homicide rates in America. Doesn’t overall crime and homicide also cause a “bad relation” law enforcement and citizens? By my opponent’s logic, all the crime and homicide should be decriminalized due to race disparity! (3) R.4 Violent crime and violence among users I am going to combine Violent crime and crime among users. Simply, because those 2 points that my opponent has made is very similar. Using my own opponent’s source (3rd one) Overall, 52.7 percent of homicides were in some way drug-related. The main point is drugs cause crime. According to the National Criminal Justice Reference Services, arrestees frequently test positive for drug use. It is really no surprise that drugs play an important and crucial role in criminal activity that are not directly related to drugs. However, crimes such as theft or murder that drugs have played a role in. (4) R.5 Families This appears to be the morality part of my opponent’s argument, ironically something that my opponent discarded. Drugs will not be beneficial for families at all. If drugs are available to the public, it will turn healthy parents into emotionally unstable and impulsive animals that destroy marriages, and are likely to commit crime. R.5 Worker productivity Simply put-The company has little to no control what their employees do in their spare time. Therefore, the company cannot see if their workers take drugs, unless drug testing. Company is unaware of drug use within employees Company does frequent drug testing Once company finds out many workers are unproductive, they fire them Huge loss of jobs in America, however this time it is even more because you have made drugs legal Sources: 1.http://www.policechiefmagazine.org... 2.https://ncadd.org... 3.http://en.wikipedia.org... 4.https://www.ncjrs.gov...	CON	21
21	S712e9d27-A2776707b	The United States should decriminalize drugs.	I. Intro I’ll mostly be going over the major points of contention and showing you why Pro has won this debate. II. Harm Principle No matter whether you buy my argument here or my opponent’s, I win this argument, and therefore, the debate. If you believe me and think that people should be able to harm themselves, via drugs in particular, then I win this debate because the government should not make laws restricting the right to do what you want to your own body. In the last round, my opponent likens drug use to self-harm. If you buy this argument, I still win because, as my opponent even states, these people are hospitalized for their self-harm. If my opponent wants to liken it to drug use, the same procedure should occur. It should be treated as a health issue, rather than a criminal one. Therefore, drugs should be decriminalized and we should shift toward a health-centered model like Portugal. Either way, I have won the debate on these grounds alone. III. Choices Impacting Others Here Con essentially states that the harm principal does not apply because drug use has a secondary effect on other people. However, if the use itself isn’t directly harming others, there is no reason to make it criminal. In the US status quo, there are plenty of decisions we can (and should be able to) make that have some negative impact on others. For example, if a father decides to spend money on the new iPhone instead of paying to fix the hot water heater, his family is negatively impacted. If a mother decides to abuse alcohol, her family suffers. However, these are both legal. People act selfishly. Sometimes there are secondary effects from these selfish actions. However, if they do not directly hurt others, they should be able to make poor decisions. We do not need the government to protect us from ourselves. IV. Prison System Sure. Every inmate is “taking up a bed.” Con is correct. However, drug users pose little to no threat to the outside world. There is no reason that they should be deprived of their freedoms and basic human rights just because of a poor decision that harms their own well-being. They are non-violent (until being deprived of normal social interaction and immersed in the violent world of the prison system for an extended period) and therefore they need not be imprisoned. A shift toward a health-centered model would alleviate the issues in the prison system, help rehabilitate drug users, and ensure dignity to both inmates who remain in prison and the drug users who would be sent to rehabilitation facilities. This is a health issue, not a criminal one. Con questions whether regulation would occur with legalization (though this debate is about decriminalization; legalization takes it a step further) which is a ridiculous notion. Surely, like all other drugs that are currently legal, including OTC drugs, prescriptions, and alcohol, there would be a governing body which oversees and regulates potency, production, distribution, etc. V. Usage Rates Con drops my Portugal case study, which proves that decriminalizing drugs actually LOWERS rates of drug abuse. I again win the debate on these grounds alone, because Con’s primary goal is to decrease drug rates (which as I stated, has not happened in nearly a half-century of the current American drug policy) so if I can prove that decriminalization achieves this (and I have) then I win the debate. VI. Conclusion In this debate I have proven that the government need not interfere in our decisions to harm ourselves. However, if they do, it is not a criminal matter, it is a health one, so we should not criminalize drug use. This was the first pillar to Con’s position. I have cast doubt on the health implications of certain drugs Con decided to use as examples, particularly marijuana. Marijuana has massive health benefits and should be legalized for those reasons. This puts a dent in the second pillar. Finally, I have proven that decriminalization will reduce rates of drug abuse and help move us forward. This takes out the third and final pillar of Con’s position. Since I have disproven two of the three essential pillars to the Con position, as well as providing offense of my own, this debate has clearly been won by Pro. VII. Closing Remarks Thank you, Con, for a good debate. Thank you, voters, for taking the time and effort to put into it. If you are voting for Bsh’s tournament, no RFD is required, but if you have the time, I know I’d appreciate a quick one like “Pro wins because he proved x and y, while Con only proved z.” If you can do that it’d be greatly appreciated, if not thank you anyway! Emilrose, if you advance, good luck in the next round!	PRO	22
22	S328198b3-Af17ba193	The US should adopt a ban on all semiautomatic firearms	Thank you for the rebutalls Pro. Also I would like to apolgize for the atrocious formatting presented in the last round. I will try to fix it. (1) Reduction of homicides Pro’s study claims that a 1 percent increase in gun ownership is “correlated” with a 0.9 percent in firearm homicide, but the key word is correlate. If we look at Pro’s source, it says that the researchers could not determine causation. In other words, the study concedes that the increase in firearm homicide cannot be directly attributed to the increase in gun ownership. There is also another key flaw that is mentioned. The study itself admits that it used a “GEE negative binomial model with year fixed effects and accounting for clustering by state, but without any other predictor variables besides gun ownership” [1]. Generally speaking, the states in the South (Alabama, Louisiana, Mississippi ) have always had higher rates of gun ownership, but it’s socioeconomic status has been significantly lower when compared to other states. Poverty, unemployment, lack of job opportunity strongly correlates with crime, so it’s more likely that these factors contributed to fire-arm homicide rather than the actual gun ownership. It’s interesting that Pro only talks about firearm homicide, but if we look at overall homicide among the states, there isn’t a strong correlation. A state like California only has a 19.8% gun ownership rate with a 4.9 per 100,000 homicide rate, whereas a state like Idaho has a 56.9% gun ownership rate with a homicide rate of 2.9 [2]. Pro continues with his mistake of mistaking correlation with causation, and highlights countries like Australia and Japan. There are too many factors to consider when comparing homicide rates among countries, with a large indicator being poverty and GDP. There are two points I would like to make: The U.S is ranked #1 in gun ownership (101 guns per 100 people) [3] but is ranked #88 in homicide rates (4.92 per 100,000) [4]. El Salvador on the other hand is ranked #89 in gun ownership [3] (5.8 guns per 100 people) but is ranked #1 in homicide rate (108.8 per 100,000) [4]. If guns were the main culprit in homicide, these statistics would be the inverse. Poverty and GDP on the other hand seem to correlate much stronger than gun ownership. El Salvador’s poverty rate and GDP are significantly lower than the U.S’s, which would indicate why it is much more dangerous. If we look at Australia’s homicide rate prior to the ban and before the ban, it followed a consistent downwards trend which can be attributed to other factors. There is no indication of any dramatic decline in homicide after the ban was passed so it’s highly unlikely that the ban made any difference in the overall homicide rate. During this same time period, the U.S also experienced a drop in homicide rate, but at a much larger rate, despite not having a ban. In the case of Japan, it has always historically had low homicide rates, and is not proof that gun bans work. The same arguments above all apply to the issue of law enforcement homicides. The states with higher gun ownership tend to also have higher crime rates, which logically suggests that the chance of law enforcement homicide to be higher. (2) Mass shootings While it is true that the U.S has more mass shootings than other countries, the % of murder that are attributed to mass shootings is less than 1% of all gun deaths. While I do not wish to desensitize the victims of mass shootings, it doesn’t make sense to create a blanket ban based on incidents that are statistically very rare when we look at the overall picture [5]. Regarding the Parkland and Sutherland Springs shootings, the incident could have been entirely avoided had the FBI taken a more proactive approach in preventing those individuals from buying firearm [6]. I believe the focus on pre-emptive measure would be more effective in preventing these incidents from happening than a blanket ban, because previous bans from the past didn’t make any difference when it comes to mass shootings. The shooters still managed to acquire those weapons. The Assault Weapons Ban was passed by Congress in 1994 but when the Columbine massacre (1999) happened, the perpetrators were found to have TEC- 9’s with them, a semi-automatic pistol that was prohibited according to the ban. The law didn’t seem to do anything in this case. If we passed a ban on all semi-automatic guns, the sheer volume of guns already floating around the U.S would render any legislation useless [7]. If people are so determined to commit these acts of violence, they will always find a way. France has one of the strictest gun control laws in the world, but the terrorists managed got access to fully-automatic rifles (virtually impossible to get in the U.S) and hand grenades, killing 137 people. That is more fatalities than the top 2 mass shootings in U.S history combined [8]. For France, it would make far more sense to focus on pre-emptive measures (stricter surveillance, stricter immigration,) rather than focusing on gun laws. The U.S should do the same as well (bullying prevention programs, better counselling,). (3) Suicides Pro makes the mistake of only focusing on fire-arm homicides, but why aren’t we comparing suicide rates in general? Is killing yourself with a gun somehow worse than hanging yourself? In both cases, you still die. If we look at overall suicide rates, the U.S is right in the middle of the pack, and countries like Japan and Finland have higher suicide rates than the U. S’s homicide and suicide rate combined [9]. Whether it’s done by firearms or not is irrelevant, because there are many other ways to commit suicide, especially in the case of Japan, which has a ridiculously low gun ownership rate. It’s not like suicidal people in America will stop being suicidal if they have no guns available. Suicide should be treated as a mental health concern, not a gun concern. Pro’s argument isn’t convincing since he doesn’t exactly show how overall suicide rates would reduce, just firearm suicides. He just seems to assume that lesser access to firearms would discourage suicide. He uses this same argument in his Israeli' Armed Forces example by showing firearm suicide reduced. Obviously fire-arm suicide will reduce if there are no fire-arms but it doesnt show that overall suicide reduces. =Conclusion= None of Pro's arguments justify the blanket ban he is proposing because he is using cherry-picked data and terms to make his case. Pro is relying far too much on data presented in other countries, but he doesn't show that correlation= casuation, which should be be considered when you make such drastic policy change. The politicial environment and culture is Australia is drastically different than the U.S's and is a poor example to use. Even the Australian Ambasaddor said that his countries gun control laws would not work in the U.S due to the different culture [10]. Thank you and I await Pro's counter rebutalls. Sources: 1. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov... 2.https://www.cbsnews.com... 3.https://en.wikipedia.org... 4.https://www.indexmundi.com... 5.https://www.vox.com... 6.https://www.cnn.com... 7.http://acolumbinesite.com... 8. https://aoav.org.uk... 9:http://www.rebresearch.com... 10:https://psmag.com...	CON	23
23	S564603a4-Ab6580cae	The death penalty should exist.	I thank my opponent for the intense rebuttal to a lot of my statements, it wouldn't be a debate if it was one sided. I have had a lot of work on and only just got the opportunity to sit down, think and say why the death penalty should exist. I have already covered that I personally believe that if the criminal (assuming has been confirmed guilty of the charges at hand) follows the list of criteria I said... refuses psychological help, can find loop holes and avoid the castration of society, has no remorse or is a psychopath, highly suspected to re-offend, causes more crimes within the prison, has not received justice / retribution for the atrocity he or she has committed and the sentence is appalling and in no way justifies the actions. At this point I would advocate the death penalty. I have no doubt that people have been wrongfully accused and fell through the cracks of the prison system, never to see the light of day again. To be honest, I am not a fan of how the prison system is run, I have been on a jury and was the soul reason two men didn't get imprisoned for something that could not be proven with out a reasonable doubt. Realising that two men nearly got a minimum of five years in prison, I had this feeling of nausea, my body was shaking and I began to sweat. In no way could I live with my self if people are imprisoned wrongfully. In saying that, in no way could I live with my self knowing someone did an atrocious act like harming a child or taking away a woman's confidence and security, just to be released and reoffend. The prison system simply locks people up and expects them to have the meaning of life revealed to them; apparently, an extended time out will allow them to meditate on problems and grow from it... not grow bitter and hateful, resentful and lose touch with reality and freedom. However, it gets to a stage where you have to ask your self, can this person get help? Is it possible for change? How many cases of re-offenses do we have to see before we change something? There is an estimated 35-54% [2] on AVERAGE that a sexual predator will reoffend, it varies in areas and can go as high as 80% [3](study in Canada suggests). I am not going to debate whether or not it's the prisons fault that the criminal has reoffended, at the end of the day. The criminal used free will to commit an act to completely change the course of someone's life for the worst. I would also like to say that I am only deeply convicted that a person should receive the death penalty if they have committed a crime that has intentionally damaged a persons life, for example, Murderer, Rapist, Child Abuser etc. As for the cost, I do not doubt that the price is stupendous, we can pay less than a dollar for a bullet, and it's arguably more ethical and moral to put a bag over someone's head, mark the body part that will be the quickest to inflict death if removed or ruptured etc, and shoot them at point blank range. However we put them under a general anaesthetic, and use muscle relaxes and the poison at the end to stop the hard and induce death.[4] Other methods were to electrocute and in ancient times, depending on location, either cutting off the head by use of a sword of guillotine or put into an arena with gladiators or large animals. The reason executions are so expensive isn't because of the chemicals used, although they have been increased in price, the big reason why everything is so expensive is due to court issues, they have to be continuously dragged through court to check numerous times if the person is actually guilty, and understandably so; but it appears that the reason for the excuse not to execute as being it being such an expense is almost a cop out, it's not the fault of the executioner or the prison. It's the fault of the justice system and the over priced cases in court. The problems we face isn't a direct result of the prison, the prison just gets the bad side of the deal due to it doing what ever the result of the law is. Unfortunately to execute someone, it costs so much money simply because, unless assured without doubt, the person could be innocent and they have to be tried for it. My issue doesn't lie with any of these areas, my entire argument is, I don't want these reoffending criminals back into society when they have already shown once that they are not to be trusted. Why should we give them a second chance? I would trust a list of professionals all vouching for the validity and authenticity of a criminal that has turned their ways, however I couldn't completely trust them, and rightfully so, at the end of the day, there is a serious reason as to why someone would have committed such an act. A child abuser or a rapist doesn't just do that crime, there is something wrong at home, at work, their friends group, the people who speak into their lives. There is something wrong with direction in life and motive, with intention and position. A healthy, confident, positive and driven person doesn't just abuse people, unless they have a mental condition. After all of this is done, whether they are put to death or not, I want a better society, I want a place where kids can go outside and feel safe, and be safe. I want an area where a woman can walk down the street wearing what ever she feels she should wear and be comfortable and confident that people will respect that she is a human being with rights, that she deserves to be treated with respect. And that she is going to be safe, I am a feminist by definition for the pursuit of equal rights and I am devastated when I see women completely thrown out of the window when it comes to respect in society. People respect women because women are human, it's a sad thing that a position determines how much respect a women gets while a man automatically gets the view of, strong, courageous, masculine, confident, leader, etc. A lot of the time, when a child abuser or rapist strikes, it's not because it's 'JUST' a child or 'JUST' an isolated victim, it's because of the innocence of the situation, the criminal feels empowered and dominant. In conclusion, I see the prison being blamed for the prices of matters where they have no say or authority. I see criminals not getting what they deserve, getting back into society only to reoffend and ruin more peoples lives. I see our legal system failing us and as a result, we blame the prison because that's the only thing most of us actually get to see. I see the rehabilitation failing us too, why are we not doing any more surgeries to remove genitalia from rapists and child molesters? Why are we not drugging up psychopaths or showing people with a bad past that their past is just that. Why is our entire method of helping this sad one way street to 'they might be better'. Why can't we be safe any more? I wouldn't be an advocate of the death penalty if we didn't have better methods. The Greeks would cut the hands and genitalia off of child abusers and rapists, why is that out of the question? We need more appropriate methods to deal with this issue. Clearly more scientific data is needed for the rehabilitation side. However our first priority should be society. I have a lot more to say, however I will leave the rest of this part over to Pro. References: http://ijo.sagepub.com... [1] http://blogs.wsj.com... [2] http://www.scientificamerican.com... [3] http://www.deathpenaltyinfo.org...	PRO	24
24	Sf6d26e83-Acb97f39a	The Death Penalty should be abolished	"Instigator - ""The Death Penalty costs more than life imprisonment"" You use no statistics to back this claim, and this could very well be a fabrication. From what I have been able to find through research, there are varying opinions of people much smarter than me who study this for a living, and still can't agree to which is more expensive. - http://deathpenalty.procon.org... Instigator - ""There is absolutely no evidence that it deters crime (just look at crime rates in the US compared to Europe wich abolished it)"" There is also no evidence that it DOES'NT deter crime, so this statement is inadmissible and does not make a point either way. Furthermore, comparing US to Europe is impossible with such a broad statement. Crime rates are not solely affected by execution rates. Culture, economics, history, criminal laws all affect each country in different ways and they share very little with each other. If Europe's economy suddenly collapses, and mass criminal action starts occurring, can I use that as a ""statistic"" to back my argument even though the main effects are not pertaining to execution rates? No, because that doesn't make sense. Instigator - ""For every 100 executed prisoners there are likely 4 innocent people being executed."" And for every 100 executed prisoners, 96 of those were likely guilty... I am missing the point? I think what you were going for is determining an acceptable failure rate. If we determine that the death penalty is not worth it on the chance that we execute an innocent man, do we stop military action in town and cities across the world because the chance of civilian ""innocent"" casualties are too high? It would follow the same logic. - It diminishes society to the same moral level as the criminals Society is based on laws which restrict or enable its citizens to accomplish certain things with punishment or reward. The criminal has previous knowledge of the restrictions and consequences of the society he lives in before he determines his course of action. He makes his decision knowingly, and therefore accepts the consequences by doing so. If you take the opposite approach, and apply in a positive manner, should we restrict the consequences of people who do the right thing? The reasoning behind ""lowering society to the standards of the criminal"" is vague and does not seem to apply directly to the actual issue of abolishing the death penalty or not. If the intent was to question the morality of killing someone, it should have been worded much differently. Instigator - ""Human behavior is mostly determined by the environment and can be changed by a caring environment (in approx. 80% of violent criminals)"" The Nature v Nurture argument is very much still just that: an argument. To make such a broad statement (80% figure) is very assuming in nature. But even so, this point in your argument defeats itself. If 80% of all violent criminals are able to be taught to be civilized, what about the other 20%? If you take all the violent criminals, and then the percentage of those which are executed, does that leave you with less than 20%? My guess is that is would. Instigator - ""The countries who abolished it usually have lower crime rates then those who didn't"" This is a repetition of a point you made earlier with Europe vs USA comparison. Instigator - ""The Death Penalty creates a society that promotes revenge and blood thirst."" Besides missing a vital word, I agree with this point. I would insert that ""The Death Penalty HELPS create...."". The question is, is that worth the results?"	CON	25
25	S872162b1-Aac688dda	Resolved: The US should abolish capital punishment.	"Alright, thanks to our opponents iOS6 for debating this with us, and we apologize for the delay on this post. 1) Innocent Life The National Academy of Sciences in the US reported that 4.1% of all convicted criminal defendants that are sentenced to death are actually innocent of their crimes. [1] This is a massive number of people who are falsely convicted, and while the vast majority of those weren't executed, roughly 0.5% were executed, and roughly 0.16% committed suicide. The bulk of the remainder were still on death row, and many were serving shortened prison sentences. [2] We will likely spend a lot of this debate talking about numbers of lives lost; there is little doubt that the comparison between those numbers will have some effect on the outcome of this debate. However, while we do feel that the numbers are important, we should not allow those numbers to strip out the importance of every single human life lost. They all matter, and simply comparing the overall number of people lost does nothing but relegate each life to a statistic. So, when we ask ourselves what matters most in terms of lost lives, we should delve deeper than the numbers. When a country is actively ending the lives of its own people, that is a direct action, one that is clearly being taken against a sizeable number of innocent people. As technology gets better and we move further towards better forensic methods such as using DNA to establish guilt, we can reduce the number of wrong convictions, but human error will always produce some of these. Innocent lives will still be lost, regardless of advancing technologies. This is the one thing we as a society can control: whether or not the government ends the lives of innocent citizens via the legal justice system. We would argue that any system that is ending the lives of innocents while purporting to follow the axiom of “innocent until proven guilty” is debasing justice. At the point where these lives can be and often are lost as a result of clearly unjust cases, there is no way to rectify these outcomes for those who have perished. Imprisoning people for long periods might not be a great alternative, but it's certainly better for both the justice system and for innocent lives than a system that pushes capital punishment. 2. Injustices of the capital punishment system A. Systemic bias Capital punishment ultimately serves as a disease to the poor and low income earners. Normal procedure in the court of law is that the convicted seeks an attorney for his trial date, but quite often, the poor are unable to afford a good attorney and have to rely on an assigned one. A good lawyer means a good defence, and inadequate legal representation characterizes many of the cases where the poor are accused. In the state of Alabama, 95% of death row convicts are listed as poor. This directly results from the compensation for court-appointed defense attorneys, which is grossly inadequate for the amount of work that would be required to reasonably represent their clients. The lack of post-conviction counsel just compounds the problem, allowing severe miscarriages of justice. Alabama also has a long history of racial bias with the vast majority of black death row prisoners being sentenced for killing a white victim, as well as numerous capital cases that “were reversed upon proof that prosecutors illegally excluded black people from jury service.” California is “unable to provide attorneys in a timely fashion to people sentenced to death”, resulting in many inmates having “no counsel or habeas corpus proceedings” and limited funds for defense attorneys. The War on Drugs and Three Strikes Law have had particularly egregious consequences for African Americans in California as well. Similar issues persist in Georgia, Florida, Michigan, New York, and Texas. [3] These problems are systemic, but they are specifically used to their most grievous effect when it comes to capital punishment. States that continue to allow these practices are committing egregious injustices based chiefly on class and race. B. Cruel and unusual punishment The requirement to prevent cruel and unusual punishment of convicted criminals is enshrined in our Bill of Rights, so when it comes to any form of punishment we implement, our goal should be to minimize any form of harm that goes beyond what is absolutely necessary. As such, there are two major concerns. First, there is no way to ensure that every single person who is sentenced to deal with die simply and painlessly. We should recognize that there are a lot of unknowns, even when it comes to techniques like lethal injection. Different people do respond differently to the chemicals that are injected, and in cases like Joseph Wood, this puts the convict through two hours of gasping and choking before he succumbed to 15 times the amounts of the chemicals normally used. [4] And while this is rare, it does happen more often than you'd think. 7.1% of lethal injections up to 2010 had been botched – that's over a thousand people who have had to suffer tremendously in their last hours of life, and it's a worse failure rate than gas chambers, hanging and electrocution.[5] This should be unacceptable. Not being able to breath is tremendously torturous – it's the reason we find water boarding so abhorrent. With a failure rate this high, lethal injection should be the least commonly used form of the death penalty, yet it is by far the most common, with most other methods either being blocked entirely or barely used in any state.[6] Even when lethal injection works, there's too much uncertainty. Drugs like pancoronum bromide and sodium thiopental prevent the convict from showing any signs of pain. The former is worse, as it simply paralyzes them rather than rendering them unconscious. They will endure suffocation, and since this has to be injected separately from potassium chloride, they will also have to deal with the intense burning effects of that drug.[7] Second, it's critical to understand what a death sentence means. It means that a convict is now awaiting death. Ignoring the fact that current methods come with a substantial risk of extreme suffering, these people are suffering psychologically every day that they wait for their execution. It's the reason why Judge Cormac J. Carney argued that the death penalty is a sentence that “no rational jury or legislature could impose: life in prison, with the remote possibility of death.” The uncertainty, and the process of essentially waiting for death, let him to conclude that it “violates the Eighth Amendment's prohibilition against cruel and unusual punishment”, often requiring inmates to wait more than 19 years before execution with regular promises and push backs.[8] It's so bad that there's an actual death row syndrome, one that leads many to “lose their minds... commit suicide... [and] stop using the legal system to appeal their executions.” It's made worse by mock executions, which are also an established method of psychological torture. These people live out what remains of their life in often small, crowded cells blocked off from each other and the outside world with limited time outside of them.[9] Once again, this moves deep into the realm of cruel and unusual, subjecting inmates to unnecessary tortures. There are numerous secondary effects as well. The families of these inmates in particular are constantly awaiting their execution and reappearing repeatedly in court, often enduring blame and ostracism.[10, 11] 3. Justice for All We need to recognize that the retributive system of capital punishment is neither securing justice nor ensuring a better crime rate. This retributive system is actually rather new, since there was a shift from a more rehabilitative system in the 70s. The experiment... hasn't gone well. ""As a result, the United States now has more than 2 million people in prisons or jails--the equivalent of one in every 142 U.S. residents--and another four to five million people on probation or parole. A higher percentage of the population is involved in the criminal justice system in the United States than in any other developed country.”[12] Now, we can chalk up the various problems we see here to a number of different causes. It's not our goal to show that a more retributive system caused this increase. Rather, this simply shows that retributive justice hasn't addressed the problem. Rehabilitation shouldn't just be a part of our criminal justice system – it should be its focus. There are plenty of examples of its success, both in the U.S. and elsewhere.[12] With many inmates suffering from a slew of mental illnesses, partly the result of their imprisonment, there's little doubt that the system has turned towards a more retributive model and away from rehabilitation. It's resulted in the tremendous recidivism rates we see in the U.S.[13, 14] Our opponents may argue that we can turn back towards rehabilitation while simultaneously keeping capitol punishment, but the two are fundamentally at odds. Delivering the message that there are some people beyond help that need to be executed not only dooms those specific people without offering any possibility of rehabilitation, but also sends a message to other criminals that there is a line they can cross where the criminal justice system will discard them. Sending the message that the justice system cares more about retribution than rehabilitation relegates these people to a state of permanent suffering where they know that there will be little hope for them becoming upstanding members of society. 1. http://bit.ly... 2. http://onforb.es... 3. http://bit.ly... 4. http://nbcnews.to... 5. http://bbc.in... 6. http://bit.ly... 7. http://bbc.in... 8. http://nyti.ms... 9. http://bit.ly... 10. http://bit.ly... 11. http://bit.ly... 12. http://bit.ly... 13. http://bit.ly... 14. http://1.usa.gov..."	CON	26
26	S6702cc42-Ae4477c6c	Abortion should be legal	"If women become pregnant, They should accept the responsibility that comes with producing a child. Your idea that to control overpopulation we need to murder babies is morally unacceptable, It could be compared to murdering people. Instead of killing, We should teach couples to have responsible sex, Abortion should only be permitted if the mothers life is in danger or she was raped (in my opinion). ""On the question of limiting population: As you know, The Japanese have been doing it rather vigorously, Through abortion, Which I think would be repugnant to all Americans"" - John F. Kennedy, December 1959. Not only this, But it causes Mothers do undergo psychological damage because of Abortions, The Scandinavian Journal of Public Health showed that ""Young adult women who undergo. . . Abortion may be at increased risk for subsequent depression. "" BMC Medicine also found that Woman that go through Abortion suffer ""significantly higher"" anxiety scores, The Southern Medical Journal found that more than 173, 000 American women who aborted were 154% more likely to commit suicide. The British Medical Journal also found that the annual suicide rate amongst women who had an abortion were 34. 7 per 100, 000, Compared with a mean rate of 11. 3 per 100, 000. A Journal of Social and Clinical Psychology study of men whose partners had abortions found that 51. 6% of the men reported regret, 45. 2% felt sadness, And 25. 8% experienced depression. Fetuses feel pain during the abortion procedure, And this is a proven fact. Maureen Condic, PhD, Associate Professor of Neurobiology and Anatomy and Adjunct Associate Professor of Pediatrics at the University of Utah School of Medicine, Explains that the ""most primitive response to pain, The spinal reflex, "" is developed by eight weeks gestation, And adds that ""There is universal agreement that pain is detected by the fetus in the first trimester. "" According to Kanwaljeet J. S. Anand, MBBS, DPhil, Professor of Pediatrics, Anesthesiology and Neurobiology at the University of Tennessee Health Science Center, ""If the fetus is beyond 20 weeks of gestation, I would assume that there will be pain caused to the fetus. And I believe it will be severe and excruciating pain. "" Even Bernard N. Nathanson, MD, The late abortion doctor who renounced his earlier work and became a pro-life activist, Stated that when an abortion is performed on a 12-week-old fetus, ""We see [in an ultrasound image] the child's mouth open in a silent scream. . . This is the silent scream of a child threatened imminently with extinction."	CON	27
27	S712e9d27-A7da9df13	The United States should decriminalize drugs.	Rebuttals Harm Principle Here, Pro contends that people essentially have the right to take illegal drugs--all the while still acknowledging their harms. However if there was nothing inherently wrong with harming oneself, things like traditional self-harm (mutilation of the body) and suicide would not be considered as reason to hospitalise, or strongly indicative of psychiatric illness. [21.] http://www.webmd.com... As this source states, legally, people are hospitalised (taken away from the community) for unspecified periods of times when they are 'at risk of hurting themselves or others'. Assisted suicide and voluntary euthanasia also show that the choice to harm oneself is indeed heavily limited; and illegal in many circumstances. At present, euthanasia is illegal in the U.S, while physician assisted suicide is only legal (and of course, heavily monitored) in six U.S states. [22.] http://www.cnn.com... How Our Choices Impact Others It's important to note that the choices we make, will always have consequences on those around us--for example, the family members of someone who has taken illegal drugs for recreational use and since become addicted, will undoubtedly be affected, and the individuals ability to function normally will be severely impacted; since addiction is all-consuming. 'A growing body of literature suggests that substance abuse has distinct effects on different family structures. For example, the parent of small children may attempt to compensate for deficiencies that his or her substanceR08;abusing spouse has developed as a consequence of that substance abuse (Brown and Lewis 1999). Frequently, children may act as surrogate spouses for the parent who abuses substances. For example, children may develop elaborate systems of denial to protect themselves against the reality of the parent’s addiction. Because that option does not exist in a single parent household with a parent who abuses substances, children are likely to behave in a manner that is not age appropriate to compensate for the parental deficiency.' 'Neighbors, friends, and coworkers also experience the effects of substance abuse because a person who abuses substances often is unreliable. Friends may be asked to help financially or in other ways. Coworkers may be forced to compensate for decreased productivity or carry a disproportionate share of the workload. As a consequence, they may resent the person abusing substances.' 'People who abuse substances are likely to find themselves increasingly isolated from their families. Often they prefer associating with others who abuse substances or participate in some other form of antisocial activity. These associates support and reinforce each other’s behavior.' 'Substance abuse can intensify problems and become an impediment to a stepfamily’s integration and stability. When substance abuse is part of the family, unique issues can arise. Such issues might include parental authority disputes, sexual or physical abuse, and self esteem problems for children.' [23.] Chapter 2 of Impact of Substance Abuse on Families, p.3,4,7,8, 31. In addition: 'Children whose parents abuse alcohol and other drugs are almost 3 times likelier to be physically or sexually assaulted and more than 4 times likelier to be neglected by their parents compared to children of parents who are not substance abusers.' 'With 28 million children of alcoholics and several million children of other drug abusers, children and adults in America who, during their lives, have been neglected and/or physically and sexually assaulted by substance-abusing parents constitute a significant portion of our population.' [24.] https://www.centeronaddiction.org... The reason I'm including a source specifically referring to alcohol use, is to demonstrate that when a drug is legal, it is more readily available--that is partly why there's a higher percentage of people abusing alcohol as a substance. So, it's quite obvious that drugs are inherently harmful to ones environment--negatively impacting personal relationships and capacity to fulfill commitments. And this, of course, is in addition to the internal harms (I.E harms to physical and mental health.) Thus, the 'harm principle' that Pro put forward has more or less been negated--specifically as these 'harms' negatively impact others, and, as I initially argued, it's a well-established fact that people cannot freely decide to harm themselves (using the examples of body multilation, suicide attempts, etc.) without at least some form of intervention to prevent this behaviour. Prison System Firstly, we should establish that everyone in prison, regardless of the crime (and this refers to Pros 2nd source) is 'taking up beds'. The point is that drugs have a relatively high level of danger, and that's why they are illegal. Their status is supposed to serve as a deterrent in terms of what the physical, environmental, and criminal repercussions could be. Nothing regarding the present system in the I.S (in which people can receive sentences for drug possession, dealing, etc.) would particularly change if drugs were to be made legal--as I stated in round two, they would likely be further abused, this risks to society would be further increased. Essentially everyone in prison in taking up a bed, but they are to be held accountable for their actions. To use one example--it is legal to smoke/distribute cannabis in the state of Colarado; subsequently, personal use of the drug there is 42% higher than the national average. Teenage admissions for addiction to cannabis increased by 66% between 2011 and 2014. Moreover, disorderly conduct increased by 45% in the first year of legalization (2012-2013.) According to Colarado State Patrol, 77% of people tested positive for having cannabis in their system after having road traffic accidents. [25.] https://www.drugfreeworkplace.org... Pros 3rd source, argues that legalisation would equate more regulation but this is highly speculative. All the while, the article fully acknowledges the significant risks associated with drug use. Source 4 focuses more on the incarceration aspects, but again heavily ignores key points related to incarceration itself and why people are given jail sentences in the first place. There is nothing to really show, that legalising drugs would indeed be more beneficial than detrimental; especially in regards to health and society. Rather than actually legalising drugs--the U.S government should attempt to address the issues that often lead to drug use; such as poverty, lack of opportunity, lack of education, violence in the home, etc. The answer isn't to make the 'quick-fix' (drug use) more accessible but to penetrate the underlying factors relating to it.	CON	28
28	S712e9d27-A6bcfb470	The United States should decriminalize drugs.	Final Rebuttals/Closing Argument Throughout round four, Pro more or less simply states that he should win without really going into any great detail as to why he should win. I've demonstrated in my argument that illicit drugs are extremely dangerous to ones health, and have damaging societal effects (in terms of family, the ability to maintain a job, etc.) I've also highlighted that when drugs are legal, as in the case of alcohol and tobacco, they are more widely used and thus more open to abuse; this is one point that Pro has essentially dropped. In arguing that people are hospitalised for self-harm, I was merely attempting to demonstrate that self-harm is heavily discouraged, and that the 'right' for people to commit-self harm, is practically non-existent. Indeed people who self-herm or attempt suicide so not receive prison sentences, but they do have the right taken away in the form of psychiatric prevention. For example, if someone wants to commit suicide, they can be involuntarily sectioned--thus, that proposed 'right' to do what we want to ourselves is extremely limited when we overstep the lines of doing ourselves physical harm, which inevitably occurs in the case of drug use (as I have demonstrated in my round one argument, by listing all the effects that specific drugs have on the body.) In round three, I additionally looked at the state of Colarado and the overall impact that marijuana legalisations has had on the state so far--as can be seen, it is largely negative. (Pro appears to have dropped these contentions, though.) In regards to Portugal (and I'll use this as my second-last rebuttal), drug-legalization hasn't actually been a complete success. No fact, there's plenty to indicate that's it's been quite the failure. [26.] http://www.bmj.com... Note that delegalisation, doesn't necessarily equate more regulation, less crime, or indeed less drug use; as the above statistics clearly show. *************************** I didn't have the opportunity to fully negate Pros argument on marijuana, either. Pro placed a great deal of emphasis on marijuana alone (whole somewhat ignoring my inclusion of other drugs), and argued that marijuana can actually be good for you. However, the 'relaxing' effect it has on people is mostly psychosomatic; and actually 'real'. And again, there's a number of detrimental physical effects that smoking it can incur--blood pressure alteration, blood sugar alteration, and lung damage. Not to mention the psychological impact it can have on some people; I.E, the severe anxiety and paranoia that it can cause. I will leave my closing case here. Thanks to Pro for this debate. Once more I urge judges to assess those three key parts of my argument (health, society, and the overuse/misuse of drugs that are legal) and take them into consideration when deciding who to vote for.	CON	29
29	S328198b3-Aad4a1e91	The US should adopt a ban on all semiautomatic firearms	"Thank you Pro, I will now present my counter-rebutalls and conclusion. (1) Buyback program Pro is accusing me of cherry-picking and is saying that a support for all guns isn’t relevant. The majority firearms are semi-automatic firearms, so when Pro says he is going to ban semi-automatic firearms, he is banning the vast majority of guns (Pro himself admits that in his 2nd rebuttal). The top selling firearms in America have all been semi-automatic weapons. If we get into semantics, the poll is asking about “all” firearms whereas Pro’s resolution only talks about semi-auto’s, but it’s entirely reasonable to suggest that most of those who oppose banning all guns would also be opposed to banning semi autos, since they are the most popular and the most commonly used firearms. Pro ironically cherry-picks another statistic to prove his point by saying 70% support stricter gun control, but gun control is an incredibly vague term. I for one support a universal background check which is essentially stricter gun control. That doesn’t suggest in the slightest that I support banning semi-autos. If anything, Pro’s source is far more irrelevant than mines. It’s hard to guess what each responder had in mind when they heard “stricter” gun control but its unlikely they were all thinking about a blanket ban on all semi-automatic firearms. The only ban that has been commonly talked about is the “Assault Weapon” ban, and that is mainly because many people believe they are weapons of war. However Assault Weapons do not count handguns, so this doesn’t prove anything. (2) Illegal Guns Pro is only talking about guns that are currently being manufactured, his plan will stop those weapons from going into circulation, but he misses three key points. The number of firearms in the U.S is over 320 million. There are over 12 billion rounds of ammunition. Guns can be used for an infinite period if maintained. It is not necessary for criminals to keep buying guns. A ban will shut down the major gun manufacturers, but private gunsmiths and 3D printing technologies can still be used. Theoretically, the supply and demand that is being proposed would work, but given the sheer number of firearms, this will take a very long time. The buyback program in Australia took roughly 1 year to collect roughly 660,000 firearms [1]. If the U.S were to collect at this rate, it would take around 533 years for the U.S government to collect all firearms (The U.S has only existed as a country for 242 years). This is a ridiculous amount of time and not a realistic solution. This also assuming that all semi-auto firearm production is outlawed, but Pro completely concedes my point on private gunsmiths and 3D printing. (3) Defensive Gun Use Pro is saying my statistic on SDGU is false because the “Gun Violence Archive” says there were only 2,047 defensive “reported” uses. This statistic only counts reported uses, but most of the time, the crime was thwarted without any shots being fired. There is no incentive for any gun owner to report this information to the police, so it’s obvious that this figure would be significantly lower. As a mentioned before, the number of actual SDGU cannot be accurately determined, only extrapolations can be used. Therefore, the statistics provided by the GVA is useless. I do not religiously worship Kleck’s study, but Pro offers very little reason to suggest that the methodology that he used is incorrect. While Kleck does admit 64% of his respondents reported the incident to the police, he also mentioned a caveat of his own, but Pro conveniently left that part out in his rebuttal [2]: “This figure should be interpreted with caution, since victims presumably want to present their use of guns as legitimate and a willingness to report the incident to the police would help support an impression of legitimacy. Rs who had in fact not reported the incident to the police might have wondered whether a ""no"" reply might not lead to discomforting follow-up questions like ""why not?"" (as indeed it does in the NCVS). Further, it is likely that some Rs reported these incidents but did not mention their use of a gun” In 2013, President Barrack Obama (D) gave funds to the CDC to study gun violence. The CDC is by no means a pro-gun organization, but even they acknowledged the statistics provided by Gary Kleck [3]. At this point, Pro has pretty much conceded my argument on SDGU, because he himself admits that there are atleast 67,000 SDGU a year. That number is greater than the amount of gun homicide and suicide put together which he says is roughly 33,000. (3) Homicides Pro is suggesting we only focus on firearm homicides rather than overall homicides, but if a criminal doesn’t have a gun, he will use another weapon such as a knife. Knife offenses in the U.K are far higher than they are in the U.S [4]. Even if we focus on gun homicides, we must keep in mind that Britain had far less gun’s in circulation, which is a major variable that should be considered. Bluntly put, the U.S cannot attempt to prohibit firearms they way they did in other countries, therefore comparing these trends from other countries is not advisible, and the Australian ambasaddor himself agrees. (4) Black Market I have addressed most of the points in R2 for the first paragraph, so I’ll focus on the 2nd . Prohibition is an important event to discuss not because of its health benefits, but it’s effect on crime and the black market. In Pro’s own source, it states that Prohibition increased crime [5], and that the relevant piece of information we need. There was no Al Capone before Prohibition, but after it was passed, it allowed him to create a large black market which established his crime network in America. Given the sheer demand of firearms, I see no reason why another figure like Al Capone wouldn’t rise. Prohibition creates a black market and past events suggest that it would also result in an uptick of crime, therefore it is undesirable to pursue that would ensure that this happens. (5) Burden Since this is policy debate, my arguments have been structured according to Pro’s plan, which is to have a mandatory buyback program. I only need to show why this buyback program to ban all semi-automatic firearms is a net detriment. I stated that in my opening round, and Con had no objection to it. I agree that some of my arguments are defensive, but they work in conjunction to my other “offensive” arguments. So let’s quickly recap my arguments to show that I have met my burden: Lack of compliance for a buyback program: Overall Detriments: Waste of taxpayers money and time of federal officials who could be doing something more productive Likely loss of 4th amendment rights leading to increased chaos and disorder which naturally leads to violence. Removing Self-Defensive Gun Use: Overall Detriments: 55,000 to 4.7 million additional violent crimes that could occur Americans lose their constituional right to realistically defend themselves Creating an Illegal Gun Market: Overall Detriments: Criminals will have easier access to these weapons, while law-abidding citizens will not Potential for major criminals to rise and establish crime network, along with increased crime rates Economic Reprocussions: Overall Detriments: Rise in unemployment and decreased economic output Long term affects of poverty which increases crime Conclusion I believe that I have shown enough flaws in Pro's case that his gun ban policy would be a net deteriment. The main argument that Pro has made throughout this debate is that his plan will reduce firearm and suicide rates, but by simply referring to SDGU alone, more lives are saved using guns than they are used to commit homicide and suicide, and that allow should be enough for me to meet my burden. However, I also shown flaws that could arise from the creation of black markets, which would result in increased crime, and I have also showed that there are economic reprocussions that will occur. Please trust in my case and vote for Con."	CON	30
30	Sd257d98c-Ada776430	Child pornography should be legal to posses.	"And I agree that the production o CP is a criminal exploitation of a child- however, when somebody producers CP who is doing the exploiting? Who is the person who is actually harming the child? Obviously the producer is the person who made the video or took the photos, and is thusly the one who harmed the child. The producer is the one whom distributed the CP, further causing harm to the child. The viewer caused no harm to the child at all. Pictures and videos of other crimes such as murder, arson, and other serious criminal offenses are all widely available- both real and fake. Few people, however, would suggest that possession of videos or pictures depicting other tragedies cause them to happen more often, as there is more 'demand' for them. The video or pictures of the abuse is happenstance, and unrelated to it in the way you're trying to relate it to. People do not abuse their children to pleasure people on the internet. If you claim that my claim that 60% of the people arrested are innocent, you deny your very own statistics, which state ""40% of all child pornography arrestees in the US are dual offenders who have sexually victimized children in the past (http://www.missingkids.com......)."", meaning that 60% of all CP offenders had no prior convictions of child abuse. Regardless of whether or not you contradict your own statements, it is clear that you are trying to correlate CP with child sexual abuse, why? Because child sexual abuse is the BAD thing- CP itself is not legally bad. Even if a single person is arrested for possession of CP, even if he had molested a child, is unjust. They have already committed a crime, the crime of child sexual abuse (if they had committed such), and therefore will already be punished for it. There is absolutely no sense in punishing somebody for the chance that they may be committing another crime when you can simply charge the real criminals. You yourself claim that the ""perpetrator"" is knowingly taking advantage of a child- I contend that the perpetrator should indeed be punished severely. The viewer of the CP is not taking advantage of a child, the producer is. Laws against theft, while not deterring thieves strongly, are absolute. If somebody stole my laptop, he stole something of mine. I am the victim, my rights have been violated. As far as CP goes, it is simply a deterrent crime, such as outlawing guns, alcohol, colored people, knifes, or anything else that 'might' correlate with another serious crime with a victim. Each arrest could not take away as much of the market as arresting a producer, the real criminal, could. You suggest we throw innocent people* in jail for thoughtcrime, before they even made the move to molest a child. *I know you don't like me calling them innocent, because you believe they have committed a crime- however, they have not committed a crime against a person. You can not name a victim they harmed directly. The producer of the CP harmed the child by not only producing the material, but molesting the child and distributing it across the net, or other media, causing substantial damage. The viewer is just a by-product, and has had no direct contact in the abusing of the child or the distribution of the material, both of which can be pinned on the producer."	PRO	31
31	S13966fe3-A17da7252	The United States should not have any laws limiting access to guns.	Suicide is a human right- so if gun restrictions would make it harder to commit suicide, this would be more reason to not have gun restrictions. 2. You already have to have a backround check to buy a gun. 3. You only need a drivers licence to drive a car on public roads, you can still own a car, or even drive it on private land without a liscense. The equivalent would be to prohibit people from firing guns on government property- which is already illegal, and reasonable.	PRO	32
32	S54b181c-A1d9163bf	School Uniform Should Be Banned	"Hi, thanks to Kim_winter for starting this debate, looking forward to it. In this round I'm going to make a constructive case (I assume that most people understand what the words 'school uniforms should be banned' mean), without doing any rebuttals. ----- Contention One: Deterrence of Crime. In Long Beach, California, the school board there initiated a district-wide rule that made sure that all students, from Kindergarten to Eighth grade, wore uniforms to school everyday, and the results after just two years is remarkable: assault and battery went down by 34%, assault with a deadly weapon down by 50%, sex offenses down by 74% (!), robbery went down 65%, and possession of drugs went down by 69% [1]. A 2007 peer-reviewed study illustrated the fact that when schools that have been historically known for higher incidences of sexual assault bring in school uniforms, sexual attacks are less likely to happen [2]. Because of these facts, let me give you some premises: P1: It is a good idea to reduce violence in schools. P2: Enforcing uniforms reduces violence in schools. C: It is a good idea to start enforcing uniforms. Contention Two: Increased Productivity.A letter published by the NASSP, the National Association of Secondary School Principals, said that, ""When all students are wearing the same outfit, they are less concerned about how they look and how they fit in with their peers; thus, they can concentrate on their schoolwork"" [3]. In 2010, the University of Houston conducted a study that showed that when elementary schools implemented school uniforms, the average test score for a girl went up by 3% [4]. Before I go on, I just want you to think about that statistic, and the implications of it. 3% less people failed the 3rd grade, all thanks to wearing something that was provided by a school, at little or no cost. Now, you may not think that is important, but boy, you'd be wrong. Let me give you some premises: P1: We ought to increase test scores of our children by any means. P2: Enforcement of school uniforms directly links to increased test scores. C: We ought to enforce school uniforms. Contention Three: Reduced peer pressure and bullying. (I know that this point is in direct conflict with my opponent's main points, but I'm not going to refute them or anything, just provide reasons why it actually does reduce these things). In 2013, the National Association of Elemtary School Principals, NAESP, over 85% of school leaders said that uniforms promote ""a significant, positive impact on peer pressure,"" and over 60% said that they reduce bullying [5]. Let's just think about that for a second... that could be up to 60% less people that commit suicide... 60% less mass murders due to bullying... 60% more productivity. Virginia B. Draa, Assistant Professor of Human Ecology at Youngstown State University, said uniforms can decrease peer pressure and blur class lines between students [6]. Here are some premises: P1: We ought to decrease bullying. P2: Enforcement of school uniforms decreases bullying. C: We ought to enforce school uniforms. ----- Sources: [1]: M. Sue Stanley, ""School Uniforms and Safety,"" Education and Urban Society, Aug. 1996 [2]: J. Scott Granberg-Rademacker, Jeffrey Bumgarner, and Avra Johnson, ""Do School Violence Policies Matter? An Empirical Analysis of Four Approaches to Reduce School Violence,"" Southwest Journal of Criminal Justice, Spring 2007 [3]: Peter Caruso, ""Individuality vs. Conformity: The Issue behind School Uniforms,"" NASSP (National Association of Secondary School Principals) Bulletin, Sep. 1996 [4]: Elisabetta Gentile and Scott A. Imberman, ""Dressed for Success? The Effect of School Uniforms on Student Achievement and Behavior,"" utdallas.edu, Jan. 15, 2010 [5]: National Association of Elementary School Principals, ""National Survey of School Leaders Reveals 2013 School Uniform Trends,"" naesp.org, July 30, 2013 [6]: Jennifer Weiss, ""Do Clothes Make the Student?,"" nytimes.com, Sep. 16, 2006 ----- Closing remarks: I just want you to leave you with this quote from Bill Clinton: ""If it means teenagers will stop killing each other over designer jackets, then our public schools should be able to require their students to wear school uniforms."""	CON	33
33	Sfe78c1c3-Ab8bb00d1	Dueling should be legalized	"Thank you, I'm enjoying this as well. ==Defense: Dueling is a Right== --Warning labels on cleaning supplies-- This is an analogy I really have to take issue with. Explicit consent and knowledge about what involved parties are getting into is central to what I am defending. I don't think that a scenario where dangerous chemicals are being dispersed without proper information regarding associated risks is comparable. --Costs to society-- You raise a valid point about costs to society as a whole where medical treatment is concerned, but I would respond with a few counterpoints: -Since you specifically reference ""resources that might otherwise have been used or held in reserve for the unfortunate victims of accidents or crime,"" I will mention that to an extent lifestyle choices are factored into medical decisions. An example being that smoking, alcohol and/or drug use or a history of such self-harming behaviours are already taken into account in determining who is qualified to receive organs, for example (1). The issue of whether convicted criminals should be discriminated against on organ transplant waiting lists is also a prominent and controversial issue in medical ethics (2)(3). I would argue for extending medical ""discrimination"" much further but I don't want to stray from our topic (and medical ethics is a very complex subject that I couldn't do justice as a secondary topic here), so I'll just say that I think it would be completely reasonable for duelists to be classified as lower priority for a variety of medical treatments. -Where medical costs incurred by the state are concerned (which would vary by country, of course), this is not something that an individual can voluntarily opt out of, so I don't think it is reasonable to impose any moral obligation of safe lifestyle choices upon people for being subject to it. --Dueling is more lethal than other dangerous activities-- I'm willing to concede that dueling is more dangerous than the other activities mentioned (although I agree that reliable statistics on this don't exist) but I don't think it successfully refutes the principle at hand. Ultimately, your argument is that it is a question of degree and that makes all the difference. But in that case, what is the magic number where an activity crosses a threshold of being illegal? 1 in 1000 chance of dying per attempt? 1 in 100? 1 in 10? It's an arbitrary and subjective metric, at whatever point you want to start deeming a voluntary and consensual dangerous activity as somehow unacceptably dangerous. The principle is what matters and the principle applies the same across all mentioned activities. --Right to life-- You (quite rightly, in my view) acknowledge that people should be permitted to waive their own right to life, then you say that justification should be required. By your ""rational basis test"" on this matter, shouldn't suicide be criminalized again? Ultimately this goes back to the point of contention where I believe that individuals should have personal autonomy over their own life and should not require state permission to do something that has a chance of ending it. ==Defense: Increased Public Safety/Medical Response== Ooooh, I enjoy game theory! Pretty much all of your points in this section relate to existing violence being the purview of criminals and arguing that they do not want to fight fair, they don't care to abide by any code of honour, they would not want to involve themselves in the legal system, and they don't care about having legal permission to do things. All good arguments, but I would counter that if legalized dueling were combined with a stern and effective criminal justice system that was able to consistently secure convictions for murderers as well as provide heavy punishments for them, it would deter people from committing murder and incentivize dueling. Why spend decades in prison when your gang's best duelist could take someone out openly without legal repercussion? Obviously this would not prevent heat-of-the-moment rage killings, but I'm not proposing it as a catch-all solution to violent crime. I'm simply saying that in certain contexts in which a violent altercation were to happen regardless, if dueling were legal it could instead happen in a more regulated environment. Conversely, I think that there would be *very* few people who are currently law-abiding and non-violent people who would take the opportunity to duel if it was legalized. Therefore, it wouldn't take a whole lot of criminal violent crime being redirected to organized dueling to offset the increase in violence. Alternatively, this might change if a culture of dueling was able to emerge. If that were the case, more currently law-abiding people would duel, however it would also encourage people to be more civil and avoid conflicts because they had the potential to escalate this way. ==Dueling Promotes Honour and Justice== --If the legal system offers no redress, it's not severe enough to warrant risk of death-- It's up to the individual to determine what is ""worth"" risking themselves for. At the risk of boring you I have to reference the ""rights"" argument again. In some circumstances, civil law may apply but an individual may deem that insufficient to satisfy the situation. In others, there are times when sensible legal principles to apply broadly unfortunately leave specific situations in which harm is done but can't be addressed. --No incentive to accept-- Public shaming and evidence of cowardice. This is something that would already carry weight in some rougher circles, but it would require some time for culture adjustment upon dueling being legalized for this to extend to the same extent to the general population. When dueling was a common practice historically, there was a culture surrounding it and declining it legitimately made one a subject of contempt and ridicule. But regardless of the incentive of the challenged, it could still be a very cathartic experience for the person issuing the challenge to simply be declined. It would equip them with the psychological relief of knowing that they had the courage and conviction to place themselves in physical risk for a cause they believed in, and the person on the receiving end of their ire did not have the same qualities. They could receive satisfaction from the loss of face of the other party. --Societal pressure and undue influence-- As you can see from my defense above, to an extent I accept that there would be social pressure to accept. However, this completely fails as an analogy: ""Consider the difference: Horatio rode to save the maiden from the dragon because he feared for her life. Horatio rode to save the maiden from the dragon because he thought he probably should."" Facing social pressure to do something to avoid looking like a coward is not on the same level as being forced to do something in order to save someone's life. Additionally, I do believe there is a degree of contradiction in your criticism here, as before you downplayed the suggestion that people should take drastic action based on 'hurt feelings' when the argument was whether a victimized party should be allowed to challenge an offending party to a duel. Now you are arguing that the prospect of facing social humiliation is an all-powerful coercive element on the same level as having to act to preserve a life. With that I conclude my defense. I very much appreciate you presenting these points; this was a very interesting exchange. (1) http://www.ucdmc.ucdavis.edu... (2) http://journalofethics.ama-assn.org... (3) https://www.scu.edu..."	PRO	34
34	S1dc2d3b2-A50c766a9	The I. C. C. (International Criminal Court) should try American war criminals for war crimes.	I accept the terms of the debate. I will be arguing that the US should not be party to the ICC. I look forward to an intellectually stimulating and respectful debate with Pro.	CON	35
35	Sfe78c1c3-A1eac3179	Dueling should be legalized	"== Definition Addendum == I had not realized the terms were necessary, so I must break with good form by appending a pair of definitions central, I believe, to both our arguments: State Interest "" A matter of public concern that is addressed by the government in law of policy (1). Specified here by the judicial application of discrimination in favor of the public benefit (see prior definition), subject to application of the Rational Basis Test. Rational Basis Test "" A judicial standard of review enforcing a reasonable and not arbitrary basis for enacting a particular statute (2). My apologies for the late addition. The need was clear once I started working through the argument. == Introduction / Framework == I will argue that dueling should be illegal based on three rational bases serving the public benefit: 1)Dueling is counter to the state""s interest in the preservation of sapient life, 2)Dueling is unusually vulnerable to exploitation against personal interest via undue influence, 3)Dueling, unlike ""safe"" methods of conflict, inflicts egregious externalities on interested parties. == Framework == In any judicial system that is interested in promoting the social good, individual liberty must only be restricted when there is a rational basis to expect that an individual""s exercise of that right will impose unreasonable costs to other parties, whether proximally or to the society. This demands that whatever (dis)incentives a law imposes be balanced on all expected consequences on legitimate grounds. The reasonable standard for this applies to both of our arguments, as implied in your citations of utility arguments for dueling. I will deal with these utility arguments in my future rebuttal. == Public Benefit Argument "" Preservation of Sapient Life == As established in a wide variety of case law (3), the social good is served by a legal framework that encourages the preservation of sapient life, even against a person""s wishes in many cases. The reasoning should be clear: Societies are made up of living people, and quality of life is enhanced at a very basic level by maximizing the duration of life. Although I might argue that qualify of life should weight the remaining duration quite heavily (there""s no use keeping a terminally comatose person alive), this does not apply to duelists, or indeed, to anyone whose life expectancy is reasonably expected to extend for some time with quality of life intact (Cruzan vs. Harmon, (4)). Every sapient entity""s life and contributions to society, tautologically, has both an additive and multiplicative effect on every other member of that society. So long as this effect is at least unambiguously neutral, we see a legitimate state interest in preventing suicide or even self-mutilation. If either practice was made legal, it would result in a noticeable loss of life and well-being for significant numbers that compose that state, and hence to all other members of that state. If we disallow suicide and self-harm for this reason, then by extension we must also disallow dueling, which has an identical effect save for it being assisted by a third party. This, by itself, might not weight heavily enough to overcome the liberty argument, but I have two complementary arguments. Note that this doesn""t even get into the moral value of the sanctity of life, which would be an innate reinforcement of the Public Benefit argument so long as one is willing to legislate morality (which I""m not, but completeness compels). == Public Benefit Argument "" Undue Influence == State interest is served by preventing its constituents from being harmed, whether by loss of life, health, or property, by the actions of others. Society is materially harmed if there are no consequences for con men and tricksters who influence people into making ""conscious choices"" that go against their own self-interest, be it through inaccurate information, emotional manipulation, social pressure, extortion, and other ""unfair playing fields"". By your own admission, duels would be instigated by angry people. At least one of the participants would, in all probability, fit the definition of ""emotionally compromised"". Permitting a legal contract to be formed during such is already on shaky ground. The potential for abuse by manipulative people incentivized to kill is too great; we""ve already, as a society, decided it""s risky enough in cases of the terminally ill or permanently disabled, via assisted suicide (Washington vs. Glucksberg(5)). Permitting contracts that allow healthy parties to risk their lives for no other reason than that they""re pissed off does not pass the Rational Basis Test. Consider the classic scenario as shown in ""Shindig"" (Firefly, 2002 (6)), where an aristocrat hurls verbal abuse at a humble freighter captain until the captain provokes a duel, only to discover the nobleman is a veteran of dozens of duel victories. This entrapment would be trivially easy to engineer, and society would be the worse off for its allowance. == Public Benefit Argument "" Imposes Externalities == Externalities are central to many laws because they attempt to systematize the costs to 3rd parties from actions that might otherwise be mutually agreeable to the 1st and 2nd parties. To make this argument, I need only refer to the note by Alexander Hamilton, penned on the eve of the duel with Aaron Burr which took his life (quoted from Wikipedia (7)): ""Hamilton viewed his roles of being a father and husband, putting his creditors at risk, placing his family's welfare in jeopardy and his moral and religious stances as reasons not to duel, but he felt it impossible to avoid due to having made attacks on Burr which he was unable to recant, and because of Burr's behavior prior to the duel. He attempted to reconcile his moral and religious reasons and the codes of honor and politics. He intended to accept the duel and throw his fire in order to satisfy his morals and political codes, respectively. His desire to be available for future political matters also played a factor."" (7) By sacrificing his life on the altar of his own morals and politics, he imposed all these externalities on his family, his creditors, and the society in the form of depriving them of a seasoned politician only barely past his prime. As the law should have no interest in Hamilton""s own sense of morals, that provides insufficient justification to allow him to jeopardize all these third parties with whom he has already contractually and emotionally obligated himself to exist. He caused a material drop in quality of life for all of them by dying foolishly at the hands of an enraged enemy; the same could be said of Aaron Burr, had he lost. The same could be said for anyone who has any sort of stakes with other people at all; one would be hard pressed to find someone who hasn""t. == Initial Conclusion == Liberty is important. The state""s interest must weigh liberty carefully when deciding to take it away. The Rational Basis Test shows at least these three legitimate reasons for disallowing duels, just as we disallow assisted suicide, lethal drug use, driving while drunk, and a host of other risky behaviors. When all three and their risks and probabilities are weighed against the liberty to engage in duels, even considering the Libertarian NAP, the balance in my view rests with maintaining the illegality of dueling. (1)http://legal-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com... (2)http://legal-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com... (3)http://scholarship.law.missouri.edu... (4)http://www2.dickinson.edu... (5)https://www.qu.edu...(2008-2009).pdf (6)https://en.wikipedia.org...(Firefly) (7)Freeman, Joanne B. (April 1996). ""Dueling as Politics: Reinterpreting the Burr""Hamilton Duel"". https://www.jstor.org..."	CON	36
36	S872162b1-A48013779	Resolved: The US should abolish capital punishment.	Thanks to Pro for his opening arguments, in this round I will engage in all of my rebuttals. R1: Morality of the DP In this premise, Pro argues that the infringement of rights as punishment is ultimately a necessary means of its preservation. In the argument titled “Criminals Forfeit their Rights”, the excerpt is below: “Thus, those who do not respect the rights of others forfeit their own rights. This is the foundation of the criminal justice system. Unless Pro advocates for no restriction of rights whatsoever (ie no criminal justice system, as detention inherently restricts a person's rights), they must agree to this principle.” However, in order to adhere or uphold the principles of one’s constitutional rights, it would be contradictory, if not; hypocritical to value the principals of constitutional rights yet not hesitate to infringe it upon criminals. The death penalty does such, by condemning the act of murder yet not flinching in committing upon the criminal, would it make the government any better than the criminal who committed the crime? The primary goal of a punishment is to not only deter would be criminals but also to prevent them from committing such a crime in the future, or in other words, to discipline them into not committing the crime again. Nothing is ultimately benefited from such a punishment as the DP, as no one benefits from the death of the criminal just as no one benefits from the death of the victim. To respond to a crime with the retributive mentality that would come with the DP would only perpetuate the cycle of grief and violence as the family of the criminal may struggle to reconcile obedience to the government with having lost a loved one as a result of said government. The right to live is too great a right and too important of one to be compared with the freedom of mobility that would be restricted by detention. In short, such a comparison would be insufficient. R2: Failure in Deterrence A primary pillar in both Con’s argument and in Pro-DP rhetoric in general is the idea of deterrence theory, that the threat of potential execution for heinous crimes would be a sufficient deterrent against committing said crime. As seen in Con’s second argument, deterrence theory takes a primary foundation in this pillar: “The DP deters homicides by putting the fear of death into would-be criminals. Rational action theory suggests that all mentally stable humans perform a cost/benefit analysis prior to committing any action. This theory has been applied to criminology, and shows that the DP has a significant deterrent effect on homicides.” Hence, to disprove the validity of deterrence theory as an incentive for the death penalty would be to sufficiently discredit Con’s argument. One of the ultimate failures of upholding deterrence theory is in assumption that every crime committed is in a state of foreseen, deliberate or rational thought. In short, as Dr Jonathan Groner of Ohio State College of Medicine and public health would say: “The psychological mind-set of the criminal is such that they are not able to consider consequences at the time of the crime. Most crimes are crimes of passion that are done in situations involving intense excitement or concern. People who commit these crimes are not in a normal state of mind -- they do not consider the consequences in a logical way,” [1] On the theoretical front, the DP fails in justifying deterrence theory for crimes of passion, especially murder, as such crime still can warrant the death penalty [2]. Statistically speaking, deterrence theory does hold up in justification to the death penalty. Firstly, to address the statistics that Con has given. Con first cites a 2007 article from The Washington Post, the article itself however fails to decisively prove how the death penalty deters crimes. It brings in numbers of “3-18 homocides” yet it doesn’t decisively prove the correlation of such numbers to the perceived cause of the death penalty. In short, the article alongside the argument fail to give reason as to why or how the DP causes such deterrence, it also fails to show how other factors may not be in place such as socio economic conditions or environmental factors. To which studies have shown to yield a much greater influence over one’s likelihood to crime as opposed to simple deterrence [3] In Conclusion, the Death Penalty fails to act as a sufficient deterrent against heinous crimes. As most criminals either do not care or do not consider the ultimate consequences of their crimes, deterrence theory assumes that the criminal would be in a state where both factors are seriously considered. Yet such is not the case, especially in crimes of passion. Con’s statistics have also failed in sufficiently proving the effectiveness of such a theory in practice. Sources: 1. http://www.deathpenaltyinfo.org... 2. http://deathpenalty.procon.org... 3. http://arjournals.annualreviews.org... This concludes our rebuttals, and we much wait for our opponent’s response.	CON	37
37	S872162b1-A86917011	Resolved: The US should abolish capital punishment.	"Innocent Lives The innocent lives argument can extend to criminal justice in general. While there is no consensus on the numbers (as innocence in general criminal cases is not as well-documented as DP cases), there is at least concurrence that innocent people are convicted, to the tune of several thousand (1). Even in Pro's ideal society where justice is rehabilitative, these individuals are still being stripped of their rights by virtue of restriction of movement, privacy, and other rights. The question of what is a ""worse"" violation of rights is irrelevant; a violation is a violation, and by supporting any system in which a violation occurs, Pro thusly agrees to the principle that innocent people may rightly be deprived of their rights in the criminal justice system. Questions of atonement for wrongful conviction are irrelevant--no amount of money or career training can make up for the losses of time and experiences an innocent person suffers in the legal system. Every year in the system increases the odds of a divorce by an average of 32% (2). Any attempt at atonement is just that--an attempt, and nothing more. That doesn't mean atonement is wrong, but it is obviously insufficient and the government has still done net harm to any individual it wrongly imprisons. Yet, for the legal system to work, we have to allow the risk. In the US legal system, people ought to be innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt; this is the system that best prevents wrongful conviction. If one truly values stopping wrongful convictions, one should work to provide better public defenders and other resources toward a fair trial. In Florida in 2009, each public defender had an annual caseload of over 2725 cases, and were in some instances only able to spend an hour on each case (3). This is particularly alarming in light of the fact that between sixty and ninety percent of defendants need publicly-funded attorneys, and over ninety percent of those cases are resolved by guilty pleas; in 2007, 40% of public defender offices also had no investigators (4). We should make every effort to ensure that criminals receive a fair trial; we should not eliminate the concept of justice from our lexicon just because some innocents might be executed. It is worth noting that DP cases receive far more scrutiny than other--they have procedures and an appeals process that last for years. Furthermore, Pro's claim that the ending of innocent lives is contrary to ""innocent until proven guilty"" is nonsense. Those people go through the same legal system as everyone else, they must be proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt before they are convicted. The US government doesn't execute people it thinks are innocent; it executes those legally proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. Injustices The point about systemic bias is a credible criticism of the legal system as a whole, not the DP. Simply fixing the public defender system, as noted above, solves for the bias against the poor. Pro does not adequately explain why the DP is racist in itself (or how the present-day legal system is in fact biased; Pro simply lists examples without interpretation)--if we solve for any racial bias in the legal system, we solve for this issue. Pro does not explain what preventing cruel and unusual punishment entails, making their definition of the term circular--botched injections and psychological stress are cruel and unusual punishment because they're cruel and unusual, in Pro's world. Accidents are not cruel and unusual punishment, because even if they occur during the punishment itself, they are not the punishment, but an unintentional side effect. Regardless, we can solve for all of these issues and still have the DP. Pro kindly noted various execution methods with lower accident rates, a drug to render the subject unconscious, stoppage of mock executions, and better privacy for those who have to testify again as various reforms that would make the punishment presumably not cruel or unusual. Justice for All The DP ought to be separated from retributive justice as a whole. The overall retributive justice system suffers from several issues--its criminalization of offenses that are not wrong (drug use, for instance), and ineffectual treatment of those serving time, leading to recidivism rates of over 75% (5). The DP does neither of those things--it is in effect for wrong deeds (murder), and it has a recidivism rate of 0% (dead men commit no crimes). Its deterrence rate has been demonstrated (and we shall defend it here as well). Connecting the DP with the War on Drugs and other failures of the legal system is simply wrong--we are examining the effects of the DP itself, not arguing about whether the status quo of the US justice system is good (it isn't). The criticism that attempts to tie the DP fundamentally to the current system is flawed--the fact that it ""sends a message to other criminals that there is a line [that, when crossed], the criminal justice system will [kill] them,"" is exactly the point, no matter what treatment of other crimes is. That's what deterrence is. We can have a society that is rehabilitative to an extent, but still possesses a line in the sand to deter the worst of crimes. Saying that the USFG ""dooms"" rapists and murderers with the DP is an exercise in melodrama--those criminals forfeited their rights by committing a crime, and we have a social duty to prevent those crimes from reoccuring in the future. The DP is the best way to do that. DP Morality Pro's argument against the morality of the DP fails for several reasons: 1. The USFG is not committing ""murder"" in an execution--murder is the wrongful taking of another's life, while executions are justified by the undertaking and severity of the crime 2. People do benefit from the DP--those whose lives are saved by deterred murders. 3. Pro never disputes the point that criminals do not have rights adequately--their claim that the comparison is unequal is irrelevant. To adopt the mindset that all rights are inalienable, but that some are more inalienable than others is to undermine the very foundation of constitutional rights. Thus, Pro must concur that criminals sacrifice their rights by committing a crime. Deterrence Pro attempts to discredit deterrence by providing a theoretical argument for why it should fail with regards to crimes of passion. There is in fact still reason to accept the rational choice theory: ""Economic agents are subject to social pressure and emotions: This is, in fact rational because the behavior is performed as self-protection. Larrick (1993) has characterized numerous sources of human motivation that stem from both physical and psychological sources. One example of such an influence can be seen in close athletic competitions where the consequences of a referee’s decisions may have heated outcomes. Referees that govern such competitions have previously been victims to threats and murders, so the instinct to protect their safety is natural and definitely rational. A preoccupation for self-protection may subsequently influence the decisions that are made throughout the competition. From the latter, needs for self-protection and affiliation are considered common and can be considered a rational source of motivation. Although various behaviors like self-control, helping others in need, and dietary selection are likely to be respectively influenced by social and emotional states such Research in Business and Economics Journal - Special Edition Florida Economic Symposium 6 as temptation, empathy, and hunger (e.g. Eisenberg & Fabes, 1990; Laeng, Berridge, & Butter, 1993; Turner & Oakes, 2011;), all of these are factors are also affected by self-serving utility (e.g., Turner & Oaks, 2011; Mattes, 1994) . Utility theory can never explain why an economic agent derives utility from a choice, as it can only predict how the agent will behave rationally with respect to a choice. Thus, any individual agent behavior is assumed to be ultimately determined by the perceived benefits/concerns of the individual rather than direct concern for ambient social and emotional circumstances"" (6). Empirically, this is also proven. Shepherd shows that the DP does in fact deter crimes of passion, while also controlling for economic variables (7). Pro also ignored our Luis Vera example, so we have proven grounds for a murderer to be deterred by the DP, and as our statistics are reliable (Pro did not contest the number itself, only its causal nature) have this theoretically solid backing, the relationship between the DP and deterrence is proven. Don't vote for a world that lets the innocent die so that the guilty may live. Sources: 1. https://www.washingtonpost.com... 2. http://criminology.fsu.edu... 3. https://www.acslaw.org... 4. 5. http://www.nij.gov... 6. http://www.aabri.com... 7. http://www.jstor.org.ezproxy1.lib.asu.edu... (page 29)"	PRO	38
38	S6eefc0cc-A57a5560f	The Death Penalty should be legal	"Thank you for your acceptance. I will first start my arguments. Introduction What is Capital punishment? Capital punishment is the death penalty. It is used today and was used in ancient times to punish a variety of offenses. Even the bible advocates death for murder and other crimes like kidnapping and witchcraft. When the word death penalty is used, it makes yelling and screaming from both sides of extremist. One side may say deterrence, while the other side may say, but you may execute an innocent man. Today, one of the most debated issues in the Criminal Justice System is the issue of capital punishment or the death penalty. Capital punishment was legal until 1972, when the Supreme Court declared it unconstitutional in Furman v. Georgia stating that it violated the Eighth and Fourteenth Amendments citing cruel and unusual punishment. However, in 1976, the Supreme Court reversed itself with Gregg v. Georgia and reinstated the death penalty but not all states have the death penalty. Thirteen states do not have the death penalty: Alaska, District of Columbia, Hawaii, Iowa, Maine, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, North Dakota, Rhode Island, Vermont, West Virginia, and Wisconsin. Today Pro (I) will argue that we should legalize the death penalty and Con (Tejretics) will make death penalty illegal. Arguments 1.Morality ""The crimes of rape, torture, treason, kidnapping, murder, larceny, and perjury pivot on a moral code that escapes apodictic [indisputably true] proof by expert testimony or otherwise. But communities would plunge into anarchy if they could not act on moral assumptions less certain than that the sun will rise in the east and set in the west. Abolitionists may contend that the death penalty is inherently immoral because governments should never take human life, no matter what the provocation. But that is an article of faith, not of fact. The death penalty honors human dignity by treating the defendant as a free moral actor able to control his own destiny for good or for ill; it does not treat him as an animal with no moral sense."" Because of Morality, we should have the death penalty. 2. Money Thats right. We have death penalty for a reason. We are not just killing them because they did nothing wrong. We should kill these people because they killed people, and they did something so bad or they had keep done bad things after going to jail. We don’t kill them by one minor mistake which hurt no one. This argument is all about that they will make more crimes and then kill more people. This is because of money. If we see any stealer or thief or murderer, if they kill someone, they will probably go to jail and also will lose a lot of their money. They do that to get money and things. Then why would they do these crimes. If these bad people go out of jail what do you think they will do. They did those bad crimes because of money so what else do they do because they don’t have money? They have to do bad crimes to live. If they do not get a death sentence, they will soon hurt everyone. It is much better to kill one guilty person who had faults then plenty of innocent people and not the guilty. This shows that because they do not have money so that they can not have a choice but to do that. They will kill innocent people and then they go to jail. I think before they kill these people, we should sentence the person who killed the people first. The killing went in the wrong order. This is why we should have the death penalty because these bad people will kill because of no money. They should get sentenced to death before killing more innocent people. This is why because these bad people have no money they make these bad crimes and go to jail, which should be much better to sentence them to death. 3. Save lives First of all our team will argue that the death penalty saves lives. This kinda combines with my first argument was because of money. First of all it kills many lives. Because of no death penalty, 2,000,000 people have died in the USA. However if we had the death penalty, none of these people will get murdered or stabbed or shot. Also the crime rates had went up 11 times because of no death penalty. This is the end of my 3 arguments. I have nothing to rebut. Now it is Con’s turn. Good luck. (Because of time which was like 30 minutes, I could not write a lot.)"	PRO	39
39	S2671a90b-A4e3e7f0	The Death Penalty should be Abolished	"I accept your style however typically in debating the opposition also needs to provide actual arguments against in order to have a more legitimate case. Prison is undoubtedly a tough place. Cherry-picked articles which investigate some cases in some prisons are not at all representative of the overall fact that prisons are very tough and unpleasant places. If in your opinion they are not tough enough then governments can pursue policies to make them tougher rather than bringing in the death penalty in order to satisfying the baying crowds of emotional citizens. However, killing them, as I have established, is not only painful but removes any possibility of redemption as well as leaving it open for murdering innocent people. Furthermore, since we are discussing people who have committed crimes which are serious enough to warrant a death penalty then your links are even more unrepresentative since, having read them, they talk about prisoners in B and C class prisons who are not necessarily in secure or solitary confinement. You made the strange claim that because somehow typically poorer criminals don't have nice lives they therefore won't resent being stripped of freedom. Prisoners are stripped of very basic autonomy and freedom of movement and therefore prisoners really do resent these constraints which, if you spend 10 years or more with, really do lead to immense mental illness (60% of male prisoners experience mental illness in the US). You were right to admit that ""prison is not sunshine and flowers"". I am also admitting that it isn't ""dystopia"" as well. But prison is undoubtedly a tough and unpleasant place which as you said yourself, ""punish people"". Therefore, prison is a workable and satisfactory alternative to DP. Concerning the murder of innocent people, I apologise if you think I was trying to argue that you didn't care about innocents dying - that is not what I mean. However, whereas I am explaining that currently many innocent people are murdered by the state you are arguing that this is unfortunate but not a strong reason for ending capital punishment as we can ""save more lives down the road"". I'm not sure which lives you think you are going to be saving. If a criminal for a truly abhorrent crime is too dangerous then the Criminal Justice System must make sure they never get out and that they are kept in a secure unit in prison. We can thus control them and prevent them from causing harm. However, what is certain is that under the status quo it is guaranteed people will die whereas you have suggested that this is justifiable since you have a dubious belief that more people will survive in the long run. I find this claim very unconvincing. We can disagree over the validity of each statistic concerning its proof of a certain point but one thing is for sure - innocent people are put to death and this is a serious problem which should make you reconsider DP. I suppose that withholding critical information isn't lying but it is certainly immoral and disingenuous. I think families would want to know. This proposal would be disastrous for the image of the Criminal Justice System. Now, I really don't think it is helpful to get this debate bogged down over a racial discussion. The reason I brought up racism is that it is a very good example of bias within the Criminal Justice System and thus further illuminates the reality that the system has flaws and injustice is served, in some cases, to a literally deadly extent. As a matter of fact, there is a actually an element of sexism in courts. Men tend to actually get much harsher sentences. The same is true for black people having committed the same crime: Black people are 7 times more likely to be convicted wrongly of murder. Actually, think about that statistic - it takes proportion into account. Furthermore, whilst there is a convincing link between masculinity and violence there is no link between ethnicity and violence and yet there is a link between racial bias and injustice. Now, absolutely this is partly to do with poverty (which by the way is more evidence of historical and current racism) but to claim that racism has absolutely no place in institutions is false. I gave you an example of blatantly racist jurors. Racism plays a part and thus our criminal justice system is in many ways fundamentally flawed. Thus it makes even more sense to get rid of a punishment, so severe, that those same flaws in the system lead to such disastrous consequences. Countries with lower homicide rates do not have DP. I have seen no convincing evidence of this. One thing is for sure, most European states do not have the death penalty and also have much lower crime and homicide rates than the US for example (since these countries have are more socio-economically similar, this is a fairer comparison to make). I really don't think comparing the case of SA and Japan is helpful to the actual debate. However, they are not fair comparisons to make. Your DRC example is more reasonable but I almost laughed when you brought it up as an example of a less brutal state. The DRC is one of the most violent and dangerous places in the world. There is a huge amount of rape and violence and many unreported homicides. According to GPI studies, the DRC is the 8th most violent country in the world (SA is 39th). Look, I don't deny some cases where criminals are truly evil to the end. But this policy is not about them. It's about all kinds of people who end up on death row. Many of these are genuinely remorseful. While we may be able to kill some people who seem to actually deserve it the reality is that many others are deprived of their ability to make positive changes. Furthermore, the victims' families are unable to get closure from the perpetrators of crime. An eye for an eye is an animalistic and deeply emotional stand point. I understand why people feel this way. If one of my family was murdered I would probably want to see the murderer dead in a ditch but that is not a rational stand point. An eye for an eye is revenge and not justice. Justice is what we want and not anger and bitterness. Murderers do not deserve to die. Why? Because they don't want to die in most cases. Because execution is extremely painful. Because in most cases they do show remorse and can change their ways. And because execution achieves nothing except perpetuating a cycle of the normalisation of violence. Just saying murder is unforgivable is not good enough. If an abused wife shot dead her abusive husband and showed genuine guilt and sorrow for having to do that then - I would forgive her. Even if a gang criminal murdered an innocent civilian if they changed their ways and showed remorse - I would forgive them. From a religious stand point (although I'm not religious) forgiveness is a key aspect and clearly serves some purpose. Hate and anger is not useful what is is finding ways to make sure that it never happens again and gaining true retribution for a crime. I don't personally have a disability however to an extent people with mental disabilities have diminished responsibility. Furthermore, locking up people with autism or other disabilities does not in any way help, since is cases where disabilities are severe, criminals are often not emotional able to appreciate the nature of crime but this is certainly not the case for all people with disabilities. Furthermore, if citizens see that a state is willing to exercise violence, since that state is an authority often respected and followed by citizens, those citizens can then believe that violence is acceptable in the same way that kids who grow up in abusive households also often have a perverted notions of violence. Although obviously you are not legislating for the world government (and thank god you're not considering your plans for some kind of stalinist ""show execution""), you seem to have conceded that executions are absolutely horrible ordeals. I'm glad you believe this; so do I. This is further supportive of my proposal to abolish DP since it is cruel, painful and thus inhumane. What does causing suffering achieve? People on their death bed aren't going to renounce their crimes because you'll kill them anyway. It achieves absolutely nothing. I want prisoners to apologise to victims and to lead a better life after having been punished in prison. It is revenge on behalf of the victims when the state murders criminals. This is still hateful revenge which serves no purpose except to give a false sense of justice to the victims. True justice is a criminal turning to the victims and apologising to them for their actions. And no, most soldiers are not murderers. As explained, under my model those who kill to directly stop more killing and suffering are not guilty of murder but have engaged in reasonable killing as ultimately they will have caused less suffering. Let's be rule utilitarianist here. So, ultimately not only is prison a suitable and workable alternative, the death penalty is cruel and achieves nothing as well as brutalising society. Furthermore, the current system murders a lot of innocent people which is terrible and unacceptable. This combined should make any advocate of the DP think twice. I deeply regret making it such short amount of time. In future I'll change it. https://www.theglobeandmail.com... Here is a touching example of how people are flawed but not condemned to death. The man in this case should certainly not die."	PRO	40
40	Sfe78c1c3-A37ae4c74	Dueling should be legalized	"== Counter: Social Good / Sapient Life == Your argument in regard to this only works if there is a Slippery Slope argument to be made. In reality, modern democracies use the 'rational basis' principle I outlined in order to perform a reasonable measure between an individual's liberty and the marginal rights of others using the Harm Principle (discussed in (3) and further below). This philosophical tug-of-war is one of the primary battlegrounds for all the laws and regulations in modern democracy. Where one draws the line is a matter of much debate, but the point is that so long as the state values individual liberty, the risk that they will tumble down the 'slippery slope' of collectivism is nil thanks to the very construction of the legal basis for treading on liberty. The second part of this relies on an inaccurate reading of my argument, best as I can make out. I did not, at the time, have the legal terms I needed to be more clear. Regardless, the state is not equipped to judge on a case-by-case basis whether duels should be 'approved' based on the duelists' relative merits, and that IS a slippery slope which precedent we should not like to set. == Counter: Suicide/Self Harm == You are correct about suicide and its legality. I was working on old information. I withdraw that comparison, at least partially. The term of art I was groping for is, upon further research, ""Legal Paternalism"" (1). I'm hoping this doesn't step on the 'No new arguments' rule to introduce a new term, but it's the legal philosophy which truly justifies my No Self Harm argument. To rephrase my argument: The state has a legitimate interest in stopping you from doing retarded shite that will harm or kill you. If you're too macho to ride a motorcycle with a helmet on, the state, like a parent, -knows better- and may coerce you into being safe, in loco parentis. Much like a parent, if you want to engage in this risky behavior, you'd best come up with a convincing argument for why you should be allowed. To cite (and paraphrase) my source, the state applies three tests: A) Are you trying to pull some harmful shite no sane person should want to do on its own? (Dueling: Yes.) B) Do the risks of said insane shite significantly outweigh the benefits? (Dueling: Yes.) C) Is the proposed restriction the least restrictive alternative for protecting against the risks of harm? This last one could be debated, but in short: We've already got legalized dueling where the risks are reduced. It's called boxing. You need to learn how to NOT kill or injure your opponent badly before they'll let you do it. Amateurs fighting with lethal weaponry is too risky and pointless to pass the first two tests, and making it legal but with restrictions does not reduce that risk. Assisted suicide passes, by the way, because the cessation of a truly horrid life satisfies test B. == Counter: Undue Influence == I dealt with this in my first rebuttal to your main argument. To reiterate: No rational person would WANT to put their lives at risk over the kinds of disputes that aren't already addressable with tort law. That is, unless they were being pressured with the shame and social pressure of turning down a duel. This is akin to telling a kid that peer pressure is a valid excuse to take hard drugs. It's also one of the ways which we mean ""duress"", more specifically psychological coercion, and even more specifically a mass cultural emotional blackmail (2), depending on how severe the scorn or threats of reprisal are. Complete loss of reputation and livelihood would about do it. You've admitted yourself that this form of pressure would necessarily be the vast majority of conditions under which an otherwise law-abiding citizen would accept a duel. By your own insistence on the protections against duress, etc. under contract law, either there would only rarely BE a duel (making the law all but pointless), or accepting under the influence of the culture's psychological duress would be legitimate cause to nullify the duel contract. == Counter: Externalities == We tangled on this one in your rebuttal AND your counter, but I'll deal with it now: By the process of engaging in society, you enter into contracts and entangle yourself with the lives of others. If you pike off and move to Mexico (or other effective nonexistence), you leave these people in the lurch. You have, in effect, deprived them of some of their rights and their wellbeing, their Quality of Life, by removing yourself from the equation. By application of the Harm Principle (3), which I alluded to in my argument (even if I didn't know what to call it), the state has a perfectly legitimate interest in preventing YOUR actions from harming OTHER people, or from failing to live up to the obligations which you have already entered into at a prior time. If you sign a contract to ship all your goods with AA Freighter Company for three years, the state has a legit interest in restricting your freedom to sign a contract one year later to ship all your goods with Black Lagoon Shipping for the next year. The prior contract which you agreed to takes precedence, or the penalties in the prior contract can take effect, and a court may demand even more. It becomes much more significant when we speak of the family, friends, colleagues, and associations by contract which you would be leaving behind after dying in a duel or being laid up for months from a sucking chest wound. Your prior entanglements (entered into by you with full prior consent) are a legit reason to restrict that freedom, and you would have to dispense with all of them, paying fair recompense and arrangements for your extraction, before you could be allowed to throw your life away freely. You could, anyway, but say goodbye to your last will and testament. They won't be referring to it. In effect, this is not just your liberty vs. everyone else's wellbeing. It's your liberty vs. the liberty you -already exercised- in forming commitments prior to this. The second point you make is also handily dispensed via the Legal Paternalism concept mentioned prior and (clumsily) alluded to in my initial opening. You seem inclined to leave the warning labels on cleaning supplies, so clearly you accept Legal Paternalism at least -partially-. Preventing the 50%+ prospect of injury and the significant chance of death is well worth 'trampling' on your right to make very bad decisions. Again, everything is the tug-of-war between individual liberty and your effects on others' liberties and choices around you. Dueling falls squarely on the wrong side of that line. (1) http://www.iep.utm.edu...; (2) https://en.wikipedia.org... (3) https://en.wikipedia.org..."	CON	41
41	S1b363f0c-A545ba699	It is difficult to make a direct, legally sound link between a bully's behaviour and a victim's suicide	Of course there will always be ambiguous cases. That is why we have trials, and rights for the defendant. The weight of the evidence presented in court should establish what degree of culpability, if any, the bullies had. If the prosecution does not have a solid case to present, it may even choose not to prosecute. But the law should be in place for those cases where it is needed.	CON	42
42	S328198b3-Ae78ced	The US should adopt a ban on all semiautomatic firearms	Thanks for the debate Con. I’ll use this round to defend my case. D1) Homicides The study on gun ownership vs firearm homicides does account for potential confounding variables. Con quoted the bivariate analysis, which only involved the one predictor variable of gun ownership. In the overall study, the researchers state that they “examined the relationship between gun ownership and age-adjusted firearm homicide rates...with adjustment for age, gender, race/ethnicity, urbanization, poverty, unemployment....After we controlled for all the measured potential confounding variables, rather than just those found significant in the final model, the gun ownership proxy was still a significant predictor of firearm homicide rates” [1]. Correlation is not causation in studies that aren’t experimental, obviously, but the findings *were* statistically significant, meaning that the null hypothesis could be thrown out. Con asserts that overall homicide is more important than firearm homicide when assessing the effect of gun laws on murder rates. This makes absolutely *no* sense, because my premise was that banning semi-automatics would sharply reduce gun-related fatalities. How is the overall homicide rate relevant when we’re trying to single out the causes of death by guns? Con needs to show why non-gun homicides matter when discussing gun laws, but not one attempt to do that is made. Con doesn’t dispute that firearm homicides decrease as a result of prohibiting semi-automatics, and because no relevance between overall homicides and effectiveness was drawn, he has effectively conceded that a semi-automatic gun ban would save thousands of lives. Con loses on the spot if he doesn’t dispute that my proposal would save this many lives, as this impact is impossible to overcome (since human life is the most worthy of preserving). The US is indeed #88 in homicides, but as I explained above, the gun murder rate is what’s relevant. In that area, the US stands at #10 [2]. The countries that are above the US are incomparable in terms of socioeconomic status: their overall incomes and per-capita GDPs are lower, as well as their education levels. Countries like the Philippines, which is at the #6 place, struggle with drug trafficking [6], in which gangs will often fight the police. In my opening case, I explained how the US stands *way* above countries that can be compared to the US, in that they are developed and have higher incomes. It’s not even a contest: the U.S has a gun murder rate of 29.7 per million, which is nearly quadruple the rate of the 2nd highest, Switzerland, at 7.7 per million [4]. Below is a graph [11] illustrating this point: One has to seriously reach to somehow conclude that so high gun murders are due to something other than gun ownership levels. The US doesn't have significantly more crime than other developed countries, so for firearm homicides to be so high does say something. D2) Mass shootings Con tries to minimize the impact that mass shootings have, but the the psychological and emotional tolls they take on the the country shouldn’t be downplayed. It’s wrong to say they are statistically insignificant when they attract significant media coverage and draw reactions from celebrities and politicians alike. It affects not only those who perished, but those who survived, the families and friends of the survivors, their neighbors, etc. There’s also evidence that mass shootings inspire copycats, with 20-30% of mass shootings having been inspired by a previous tragedy [5]. This is especially worrying considering how more frequent they’re becoming, with 3 of the most deadly ones in US history having occurred in the past couple years [6]. In essence, they’re quite contagious, and something *must* be done to stop them. The isolated example of Columbine doesn’t prove that Assault Weapons ban was overall ineffective. There were fewer mass shootings during the ban (1.6 per year) than before (2.05 per year) or after (4.18 per year) [7]. The ban had many problems anyway, such as only prohibiting 18 firearm models, but allowing other slightly-modified versions of those guns to be sold on the market. AWs that were manufactured before 1994 were also perfectly legal to own or sell during that time, since no sort of buyback was implemented [8]. Considering the above, as well as how soft the penalties are for straw purchasing, it’s not much of a surprise that one of the Columbine shooters had a TEC-9. Under my proposal, however, it would be far more difficult for that to happen. As for the 2015 Paris attacks, the terrorists’ guns originated from the Balkans, where gun laws are looser and the firearm trafficking market is much shadier [9]. The US doesn’t have this problem because guns aren’t often trafficked into our country; it’s the other way around: Mexico has a problem with *our* firearms making their way into their country [10]. Regulations do work, but if a state is bordering another that doesn’t responsibly control the circulation of its guns, than problems can surely arise. In the last round, I spoke about how states with looser gun laws tend to be the origin for gun trafficking, whereas states with stricture gun laws are the destination. If laws were tightened federally, this discrepancy between different states wouldn't exist, meaning the firearm trafficking vaccuum would be shut off. D3) Suicides Again, the “overall rate matters” assumption here is unfounded. Con states “Obviously fire-arm suicide will reduce if there are no fire-arms but it doesnt show that overall suicide reduces.” This is a concession. My original premise, that reducing firearms reduces suicides that would otherwise be committed with a firearm is undisputed. Con tries to say that people will still have other ways to kill themselves, but *even* if we buy this, I’ve explained how suicide attempts via a firearm succeed more often than other methods, so if semi-automatic guns were to be taken away, that deadlier option would be unavailable, meaning that suicide attempts would fail at a greater rate. Con sidesteps this impact. Furthermore, it’s a bare assumption to say someone who is suicidal always has another way. Suicide is usually attempted in-the-moment, when someone reaches such a low that they can't be talked out of it. In this critical instances, eliminating as many means of carrying out the act could be life-saving; it takes much less time and effort to fire a gun than it does to tie a noose and hang it from the ceiling, for instance. Rarely are people suicidal 24/7; rather, it takes a catalyst to propel someone into that situation. Conclusion As we hold more equal burdens in this debate, the net impacts our cases have should be analyzed. My case demonstrates how lives would be saved, and how gun violence in the US would be significantly reduced. Con’s case is merely defensive; he argues why a ban might not work, but little is said about how overall detrimental it would be. Even if he manages to show negatives of it, he still has to *somehow* outweigh the impacts of 30,000 lives being saved, which he didn't come close to doing when he evaded my firearm-related murder and suicide contentions. Sources 1. Source 2 of affirmative case 2. http://bit.ly... 3. http://n.pr... 4. http://bit.ly... 5. http://bit.ly... 6. http://bit.ly... 7. http://bit.ly... 8. http://wapo.st... 9. http://thebea.st... 10. http://n.pr... 11. http://bit.ly...	PRO	43
43	S2671a90b-Abfeaafca	The Death Penalty should be Abolished	"Thank you with engaging with my arguments although I think that you need to provide some arguments against as well as rebutting my position. I will use this round to support my position by responding to your rebuttal. Clearly, the first main point of contention is the nature of prison. I'm finding it difficult to take you seriously when you argued that prison was ""not even a bad place for prisoners"". Now, I don't know what kind of prisons that you are talking about but to say that prison is not tough is completely laughable. As you even admitted, there is a risk of violence in prison and therefore there must be some element of toughness in prison. Furthermore, you are completely deprived of so much freedom. You seem to consider prison to be some kind of homogeneous institution that doesn't even punish prisoners. This is completely false. There is immense variation in prison and those convicted of especially horrible crimes would likely be in secure units which are even more tough and unpleasant places. Don't tell me prison is a nice place. It is not. Nobody leaves prison without a sense of happiness or relief. Prison is gruelling and tough. Prison is a tough punishment and therefore is suitable for dealing with horrible crimes. Secondly, you provided me with the response that says that it doesn't matter if a few innocent people die. I believe that if a civilised state kills innocent people then that is a serious offence that should concern everybody very much. Secondly, in order to justify a few innocents dying you have to show me that the benefits of the death penalty are so overwhelming that a few innocents dying are acceptable. You then provided a logically fallacious statistic that only 4.1% of convicts for murder are innocent. I'm not sure how that one is worked out. But surely there must be more since the reason they are convicts is that people think they are guilty so surely those that are innocent are not recorded? Furthermore, 4.1% is unacceptable and considering the incarceration rate of countries like the USA that is a lot of wrongly convicted people (many of whom are probably Black Americans). Furthermore, since the death penalty exists in many states that would mean a lot of those innocents would die. That is absolutely abhorrent and should make any advocate of the death penalty consider their beliefs especially considering that those convicts have families and loved ones too. Our criminal justice systems also do not improve necessarily year upon year. In the UK for instance, a scandal has emerged recently of evidence in rape and murder trials being withheld from the defence and thus resulting in some wrong convictions. In the USA, those people could now be dead. Also, the idea of us lying to families of wrongly executed people is completely immoral and hard to uphold. Next, you provided a very generalising and a verging on the racist argument against my assertion of racial bias in the prison system. I provided you with two accurate stats which suggest bias. Your response was that black people commit more crime. I find this idea of blackness causing more violent crimes completely ridiculous and offensive. There is no evidence that skin colour causes people to commit more violent crimes. It is true that black people are often caught up in more crime but this is to do with socio-economics and certainly not race. Also, considering the vast extent to which black people are more likely to be wrongly convicted literally proves that racism is a genuine cause of overrepresentation of oppressed groups on death row and in prison in general. Of course, the black community has crime problems but the criminal justice system has a race problems too undeniably so. As I explained last time, there are cases of jurors being openly racist during death penalty trials. Racism is a problem and the reality is that Black people face vast injustices which do lead, tragically, to them being murdered at greater rates by the state. Let's not let our racial problems manifest themselves in cases as serious as capital punishment. You then explain that prisoners of such crimes are a risk to others. This is absolutely true. However, we can control them to an extent. We can put them in solitary confinement and protect others instead of taking the lazy option and murdering them. While I argue that we should keep many people alive with the slight risk of them potentially killing others in prison, you argue that we should guarantee killing lots of people in the hope that some people may survive which could be achieved anyway. Your response just doesn't stack up. Also, thanks for admitting that being killed is more painful than life in prison. This reveals that my second argument against the death penalty still stands. Victims may or may not feel more satisfaction when the criminal dies but this is not always what we should base the DP on. You then made a very dubious claim that Japan having the death penalty means it has a lower homicide rate than SA. SA is a much poorer country with immense social and racial problems whereas Japan is richer and has a much more cohesive and safe society. These examples are utterly ridiculous to use to justify your argument of a deterrent. Also although some murderers may never feel sorrow, that doesn't mean that some do. Not everyone on death row is Hannibal Lecter and therefore there will be many who do feel remorse. We can spare their lives and give them the opportunity to apologise to the victim's family and make positive changes. I also believe that they should have opportunities to leave prison if they are no longer a threat and have served a sufficient punishment but obviously not in the cases of really evil criminals (although these are not the majority). Now onto the minor points of clash. Let me clarify my stance: I believe that human suffering in terms of painful suffering is universally wrong. However, causing suffering in order to alleviate more suffering is moral because ultimately less overall suffering would be endured and therefore fits under my stance. Also, I believe that prisoners should not physically suffer rather they should experience boredom and mental suffering within reason because this will actually allow them to change and become reformed people who have the chance to give to the world. My stance is not contradictory and still works. Next, I don't doubt that some families of criminals want them to die. But also many don't and especially considering some are wrongly convicted it makes more sense for the families to not have their loved-ones murdered by the state. Many, unsurprisingly, would rather have their child spend time in prison than be murdered in a painful way. Also, fetuses are absolutely not sentient human beings. This is a separate issue and that is my opinion so let's not bring it in. Apart from that, individuals can have the opportunity to reform. I believe that some will be let out after they have served their time and furthermore, progress can be made in prison. You can learn in prison, you can also confront the victim's family and you can lead a good life in prison. If you kill them, all this is completely extinguished. Moreover, fiery and often political stances and emotion do play a part in convictions. The religion of judges does have an impact on who dies. Furthermore, being sick in the head is often caused by the carrying out of violence just like violence in video games leads to violence in real life. This is still a cause of higher murder rates. And considering the plethora of states this study was done on it is far more reliable for instance certain states which have the death penalty are richer and yet still have higher murder rates. There is a tangible and real link between brutality from an authority leading towards ordinary citizens thinking its okay to be brutal in the same way a holy book encourages violence. I am also an atheist too by the way. Yes, in some cases it can be very extreme but racism exists in many cases and even if it is a minority, considering the severity of the punishment this matters greatly and our racism should not allow us to murder people. So in conclusion, I have shown that our criminal justice system has inherent flaws which still persist and that therefore innocent people die. I have also shown that many innocent people die and this is a serious moral problem for advocates of DP. I have also bolstered my stance that prisons are a real and tough alternative and that threats can be managed. I have further demonstrated that the majority of criminals on death row can change and should have that opportunity to benefit themselves and society and therefore we should not condemn them to a life whose only mantra was crime. Finally, I have supported my claim that brutality at a higher level perverts and corrupts society. For these reasons, my main arguments still stand strong whilst no opposition arguments have yet been made and therefore I continue to urge the voters to say yes to abolishing the DP. Taking a life when an innocent life has already been taking is not justice - it's revenge."	PRO	44
44	S965182df-Ac36c1470	All drugs should be legalized.	"In this round, I will simply go more in depth on my rebuttals, which I will admit were very weak in the previous round considering I had focused more on my opening arguments. ""Apparently, my opponent disregarded my entire morality section, and continued with his view of morality."" As I stated in the beginning of my argument, I was going to first address my opening arguments, and then my rebuttals to what my opponent had to say. This includes having my say on morality before I have even addressed what con had to say. ""Recall, on balance legalizing drugs will have a huge concern on public safety, specifically that drugs are related to crime."" Prohibition has shown to have worse effects on crime rates in numerous ways. According to the NCJRS, alcohol, while already having ties with homicide rates, prohibition only made an increase in homicide rates. According to another study conducted by CASAColumbia, more violent crime has been linked with alcohol. 21% of violent inmates were under the influence of alcohol, while only 3% had any ties to cocaine or crack, and while less than 1% had been under the influence of heroin. A study conducted by the justice policy institute found that when drug usage is met with drug treatment rather than criminal punishment, crime rates lowered 31.5% while costs to treatment increased 14% and admissions to treatment increased 37%. Many of the crimes due to drugs are related to the users in need of money to buy these drugs (more on that later). ""Also, drugs are highly addictive. Once you take them, you simply cannot let go, and it is nearly impossible to do so. It is almost similar to suicide without any help."" This is a great argument for then, also prohibiting alcohol and tobacco. Considering both substances are just as addictive, and even more addictive than some drugs. According to the data, two of the most addictive are meth and heroin, next in line would be alcohol, tobacco, crack, and cocaine, and trailing in the least addictive is marijuana, caffeine, and hallucinogens such as LSD. ""-One of the purposes to legalize drugs is to use drug trafficking money for good use -The money will not even cover the damages to legalizing drugs! -In the end, you had an intention to put the money to good use, yet the money will not even cover the damage"" I would like to request that my opponent shows some form of evidence, or calculation as to what these damaging costs would be to society. The estimated amount of money made from drug cartels alone is estimated up to more than $300,000,000,000. Also take into account the extra $40,000,000,000 spent on the drug war itself, and the costs of prisons crowding. That's also without mentioning the millions of people you'd be putting back into the workforce. Another study by the justice policy institute concludes that drug prevention treatment is much more cost effective than drug imprisonment. ""By my opponent""s logic, all the crime and homicide should be decriminalized due to race disparity!"" The point is that while usage rates are very similar among the races, the disparity in cases of incarceration rates, stop and frisk policies, police discrimination, ect. Is much greater. ""However, crimes such as theft or murder that drugs have played a role in."" These crimes are not because of the effects of drugs, they are due to the effects of prohibition. There have been correlations with prohibition and violent crime, and countries that enforce harsher drug laws and violent crime. ""Huge loss of jobs in America, however this time it is even more because you have made drugs legal."" Workers who are unproductive are at an economic disadvantage, and can be incentivized to get back into the job market. My opponent could make the case that since we are living in a welfare state, that is not the case and we would see more citizens on government assistance. That is where I will make the case that I do not favor drug legalization while we still have a welfare state. It is either that you have millions of prospective citizens who may or may not be either productive, unproductive, employed, or unemployed. Or that you end up with millions of citizens in prison who are costing us money and possible worker productivity. I would also, again, like to point out what a success it's been in places such as Spain, Portugal, and the Netherlands for sensible drug policies. Usage rates have gone down, and addictions aren't as prevalent. Sources: http://www.drugwarfacts.org... http://www.unodc.org... http://www.gfintegrity.org... http://www.icsdp.org... https://www.ncjrs.gov... http://www.justicepolicy.org... http://www.casacolumbia.org... https://www.ncjrs.gov... http://www.drugwarfacts.org... http://www.erowid.org... http://www.drugsense.org... http://www.drugwarfacts.org... http://www.pbs.org... http://www.independent.org... http://www.nyclu.org... http://www.emcdda.europa.eu... http://www.trimbos.org... http://www.emcdda.europa.eu..."	PRO	45
45	S13966fe3-A4d0008aa	The United States should not have any laws limiting access to guns.	My oppoent has argued that the government should restrict the right to bear arms because this would make it harder for potential criminals to commit crimes. This argument is completely nonsensical for 3 reasons: First, 77% of crimes committed in America are doe by those with prior criminal record, {1} and it is already illegal for felons to own guns- so banning everyone else from having guns will have no effect on the demographic which accounts for the majority of the crimes my opponent says such a ban would prevent. It's like if I said that my neighbor Bob might kill his wife (despite having no reason to believe this), so I tie up and disarm Bob's wife- it makes no sense. Second, under our legal system, you are supposed to be innocent until proven guilty- and banning people from owning guns because they might misuse ther guns violates this principle. 30 times as many people die from obesity as do from gun violence every year, yet we don't ban fast food. {2} Third of all, my opponents sources are very unreliable- the first is in the opinion section, and the second is not a study, but a blogger who purposely falsified and cherrypicked data from an FBI report, and wikipedia. {1}. http://www.crimeinamerica.net... {2}. http://www.rightdiagnosis.com...	PRO	46
46	S2671a90b-A55f921a3	The Death Penalty should be Abolished	"“Thank you with engaging with my arguments although I think that you need to provide some arguments against as well as rebutting my position.” I work best with rebuttals. Using rebuttals, I can eliminate all of my opponent's points so I can say, “You have nothing”. “I'm finding it difficult to take you seriously when you argued that prison was ""not even a bad place for prisoners"".” Really, I provided 3 links for it and Huffpost says that Prisoners make really good food. Although prison is not sunshine and flowers, it’s not a dystopia either. Fights are often mutually consensual between the prisoners. “Furthermore, you are completely deprived of so much freedom.” Given that many prisoners are poor, they wouldn’t care as long as they have a place to sleep and 3 meals a day. I believe prisons punish people, but there are perks to being a prisoner. “it doesn't matter if a few innocent people die.” I did not say that. I meant that if a few innocent people die, then it’s not okay, but it necessary to save more lives down the road and to make eye for an eye justice. There are times when a true method of eye for an eye would actually be less conventional then the current punishment. The punishment for kidnapping 3 children for a week according to an eye for an eye would be 3 weeks in jail, since jail is like punishment based kidnapping. But our current justice system has arbitrary punishments for this such as years in jail for the same crime. “You then provided a logically fallacious statistic that only 4.1% of convicts for murder are innocent. I'm not sure how that one is worked out.” How is this falicitical? If the rate of innocents dying was over 10%, then I would be against the DP for murder, but it’s not. “But surely there must be more since the reason they are convicts is that people think they are guilty so surely those that are innocent are not recorded?” This does not make much sense. Furthermore, 4.1% is imperfect, but still not too bad. “Considering the incarceration rate of countries like the USA that is a lot of wrongly convicted people (many of whom are probably Black Americans)”. I imagine most of them are male too. But saying that DP is racist is like saying it is sexist. Ideally, if the reason why innocents are wrongfully executed is because of lack of evidence, then there should be stricter laws on willingly withholding evidence. This way, less evidence is withheld and less innocents get executed. We wouldn’t lie to families of innocent convicts. We simply don’t tell them that they were innocently executed. “Next, you provided a very generalising and a verging on the racist argument against my assertion of racial bias in the prison system.” I was being factual. Also, like I said previously, more males are executed than females. Does this make the prison system sexist? No. Males are more likely to commit crime and Blacks are more likely to commit crime if the stats say so. Maybe the reason why they are 7x more likely to be killed innocently might be because they are 7x more likely to end up on death row. Since Blacks tend to be more likely to be criminals due to them being poor, it only makes sense that they tend to do more intense crimes as well due to poverty. This may be why they are 4x more likely to commit crime and 7x more likely to be on death row. Also, many Blacks tend to live in the South, where the death penalty is more prominent than in the North, where there are less blacks. Although http://www.law.umich.edu... states that innocent Africans are 7x more likely to be innocently convicted than innocent Caucasions, this could be because Africans are more likely to be in the wrong place in the wrong time. As you explained last time, there are cases of jurors being openly racist during death penalty trials but this is extremely rare and not the cause of the problem at hand. “We can put them in solitary confinement and protect others instead of taking the lazy option and murdering them.” If you put murderers into solitary confinement, this is harsher than what they deserve. An eye for an eye demands equal retribution of punishment, nothing more, nothing less. I also don’t support solitary confinement for prisoners unless they did something bad enough to endure it. They probably would use the boredom to do something bad instead of something good. “you argue that we should guarantee killing lots of people in the hope that some people may survive which could be achieved anyway.” I don’t believe in killing all prisoners. Just some of them. “Also, thanks for admitting that being killed is more painful than life in prison.” It’s kindof true. I would rather be in prison for life than being killed. “This reveals that my second argument against the death penalty still stands. Victims may or may not feel more satisfaction when the criminal dies but this is not always what we should base the DP on.” I wasn't. You were. I base my stance on eye for an eye and countries with the death penalty tend to have lower homicide rates when factoring out other things. I may have other reasons. “You then made a very dubious claim that Japan having the death penalty means it has a lower homicide rate than SA.” It’s a correct claim. SA is poorer than Japan, but does this alone explain the huge discrepancy in homicide rates? https://en.wikipedia.org... and https://en.wikipedia.org... state that the DRC has alower homicide rate while having DP. This is when the DRC is poorer than SA by GDP per capita (https://en.wikipedia.org...(nominal)_per_capita). Sorry about the Wikis. Since my computer has GOogle and Bing blocked on it, I can only use frontier which makes it hard to get more reliable sources. They are all .org s though, and I think they are right on this. “SA is a much poorer country with immense social and racial problems whereas Japan is richer and has a much more cohesive and safe society.” Always bringing race into this. Ignoring that, South Africa is more racially diverse than Japan and Japan treats the minorities it does have (South Koreans) pretty badly, so it seems Japan is more racist than SA. “These examples are utterly ridiculous to use to justify your argument of a deterrent. Also although some murderers may never feel sorrow, that doesn't mean that some do.” Most would not want to die. If they did, they might have committed suicide. “give them the opportunity to apologise to the victim's family and make positive changes.” Dylan Roof would not apologize to the people he killed and neither would Adam Lanza. This would not help out most victims. I believe that murderers should get killed and other criminals should serve their sentence. “Next, I don't doubt that some families of criminals want them to die.” Adam Lanza’s parents wished he had never been born(https://www.today.com...) “Many, unsurprisingly, would rather have their child spend time in prison than be murdered in a painful way.” Because it’s less of a punishment, but that doesn’t make it right. This is a separate issue, but I was trying to apply a consistency test. A sleeping person can barely feel pain too. Is it okay to kill them? But I digress. “You can learn in prison, you can also confront the victim's family and you can lead a good life in prison.” Or you might want to kill them too. It’s not like the dead person can be brought back. Since he murdered, he should know what it’s like. If you kill them, then the criminal gets what they deserved. Murder is unforgivable. They don’t deserve to learn, that’s too dangerous. They deserve to die. “Moreover, fiery and often political stances and emotion do play a part in convictions. The religion of judges does have an impact on who dies.” This applies to both sides. “Furthermore, being sick in the head is often caused by the carrying out of violence” As someone who has autism, people who are sick in the head should control themselves. “just like violence in video games leads to violence in real life.” THis is a digression just like my abortion claim. “And considering the plethora of states this study was done on it is far more reliable for instance certain states which have the death penalty are richer and yet still have higher murder rates.” It’s an unfair study to an extent because the non DP states tend to have richer and this could be the cause for the homicide decrease. It’s a similar situation for Japan vs South Africa however, the difference in homicide is so much that wealth alone was not responsible for the decrease. “There is a tangible and real link between brutality from an authority leading towards ordinary citizens” Prove it. “thinking its okay to be brutal in the same way a holy book encourages violence. I am also an atheist too by the way.” I’m an atheist because the bible contradicts itself a lot. However, I like a lot of biblical morality. However, the bible encourages the DP, this encourages conservatives to support the DP as well. Liberals discourage DP and this causes supporters to be against it. It goes both ways. I think that although the DP is more expensive than life in prison, this cost can be eliminated by the obvious murderers(like Dylan roof and Adam Lanza, they obviously committed homicide) getting executed publicly in a stadium with ticket prices raising money to pay for the execution and to fund more expensive trials which can save more innocent convicts. It’s revenge when the person affected does it. It is not revenge when the state kills. Otherwise, soldiers would be murderers, which with few exceptions is not true. P.S. In the future, can you make the amount of time to argue 72 hours? Then I can construct better arguments because I’m rushed because of the debate."	CON	47
47	Sd257d98c-A48c408f9	Child pornography should be legal to posses.	"My opponent can make whatever claims he wants, but this is a fact that cannot be disputed: CP (I will adopt this usage from here on out as well) is a criminal exploitation of a child's rights. Legalizing the viewing of such criminal behavior is to be indirectly complicit with that criminal act, and a person who is in possession of CP is very likely to be an active child abuser already or is on a path that will lead him to become one (http://www.csecworldcongress.org...). Let's look at some of my opponent's claims from the previous round: ""60% of those arrested are totally innocent"" This is simply untrue, the fact is that possession of CP IS a crime, and therefore they are guilty of it. As far as possession of CP being a victimless crime, that is merely semantics. A crime was committed for that image or video to be produced, and the person in possession of it is propagating that crime. Also, since that time I have come across other studies with different numbers. One, done by the Chicago PD, found that ""almost all"" of the persons they arrested for CP possession had photos of themselves having sex with children(http://www.csecworldcongress.org...). Another, conducted by US Customs, found that ""over 80% of those who buy child pornography are active abusers"" and they suspected that a significant proportion of the rest simply had not been caught (http://www.csecworldcongress.org...). ""Look at other black market industries, like those of drugs and prostitution. Going after the possessors (Or johns) stops a very small amount of people."" My opponent makes reference to these to industries in order to equate them with CP possession as a supposed victimless, or public order, crime. However, unlike these two industries, the perpetrator is knowingly taking advantage of the exploitation of a child. This in itself makes the act morally and criminally reprehensible. As far as the deterrence argument goes, that doesn't make it right. Laws against theft do little to deter most thieves, but that in no way justifies the decriminalization of theft. Theft may not be a ""victimless"" crime, but the logic still applies. ""I disagree that sexual abuse has risen 1500% since 1988"" Putting aside the fact that you haven't come up with any evidence to back up your theories, I will address your claim nonetheless. According to the United States Department of Justice, child pornography had been all but eradicated by the mid-1980's (http://www.usdoj.gov...), but with the advent of the internet, CP has become exponentially more popular. And guess who consumes 62.7% of the world's CP now? That's right, the United States (http://www.csecworldcongress.org...). Whether my opponent agrees or not, the US has become the world's leading consumer of this abhorrent material, and the only way we can crack down on it is by arresting those who possess and view it. Most CP comes from Eastern Europe or Asia, places outside our jurisdiction. As my opponent has said, the market for CP is very small, and the majority of the material is consumed by a very small number of people. A 2003 sting in which 1,300 people were arrested produced nearly a billion images. Each arrest takes away a significant portion of the market when compared to other industries. Your argument that these are simply fantasies holds no water. Fantasies involve one's own imagination; CP involves the graphic sexual exploitation of an innocent child."	CON	48
48	S872162b1-Ab5418ac5	Resolved: The US should abolish capital punishment.	Innocent lives: Con claims that there is no difference between violations of rights, but this is absurd. All rights violations are bad, but the gravity of a rights violation matters, particularly when comparing the tortures one faces on death row and absolute loss that results from death to an increased likelihood of divorce after serving a sentence. This isn’t irrelevant. Con argues that a better public defense will solve. They’ve given no means by which this could be done. This vague solution has no solvency, and unless Con means to force more and better law students to become public defenders, the problems they cited will persist. No solution will be absolute. Nothing will solve for the bias and human error resulting from legal counsel, justices, and politicians who craft prejudiced policy. This is the system that many are entirely dependent upon to survive in Con’s world - any risk is too much. Con makes the claim (w/o evidence) that the DP raises scrutiny. Innocent lives are still lost. “Scrutiny” only manifests as extensive delays on executions, which cause the severe psychological harms we’ve cited. Con also drops that these harms are substantial enough lead to suicides among innocent people. The trauma of conviction, combined with the ever looming threat of death, causes lasting harms that Con ignores. Injustices: Given that bias is pervasive, should a biased legal system be allowed to both imprison AND end lives? We've argued that there's a huge difference between the two, one that Con has essentially ignored. A clearly racist system should not be allowed the means to end lives and torture people. Other sentences are transient or offer more time for reversal. They provide more opportunities for justice to be served. This is the warrant we gave, which Con dropped, for why the DP debases “innocent until proven guilty”: it inherently limits the opportunity for innocence to be established. Execution limits it. In a system where defendants are often unable to present their full case due to bias and/or the lack of competent legal counsel, trials are slanted against them and in favor of guilt. A biased system may be a constant, but its capacity to end lives should not be. Nor should it be allowed to subject people to unnecessary, drawn out physical and psychological tortures that go well beyond the sentence. Torture is objectively both cruel and unusual. Con drops the high rate of botched lethal injections and the extreme psychological suffering that accompanies constantly pushing back executions, utterly ignoring mental instability and suicide rates. It is not the slightest bit circular to say that these are cruel and unusual when we've justified how they cause excessive harm. Con seems to think that all they have to do is blip out other means of solving a given problem and it's as good as solved, but every suggestion they’ve made is so incredibly vague and nebulous that none of them could function as meaningful policy. Con offers no drug to “render the subject unconscious” prior to execution. Con doesn’t explain how they can bypass state-by-state decision-making to mandate such a change.[1] “Better privacy” isn't a policy and isn't even solving for any clear harm. Without a clear, implementable alternative, Con must defend the status quo. Justice for All: We've explained how the DP contributes to mental illness in prisons, increasing the danger that prisoners pose to themselves and others. We've examined how the DP is fundamentally at odds with the concept of rehabilitation, as it treats many as beyond saving, relegating them to a permanent state of suffering. Con dropped all of this. It doesn't matter if other aspects of our justice system reinforce retribution – the DP entrenches retributive justice uniquely. When you send the message to all criminals that many of them are beyond rehabilitating, it shoves back any perception that criminals can re-integrate into and become upstanding members of society, leading to recidivism. When the justice system as a whole is problematic, we should work to correct it. That requires re-examining cases and making a concerted effort to determine if there was wrongdoing in the process of conviction. That's no longer an option for someone who has been executed. Their name can be cleared, but they can no longer receive any benefit from that process. Con wishes to subvert their basic justice – their actual lives – for correlative effects that the DP has on the minds of a disparate number of potential criminals. But if you're choosing to throw out justice, then you must not ignore our argument regarding how the DP alters mindsets of actual criminals to increase recidivism, which we've shown to be dramatically reduced in a more rehabilitative system. It's a similar correlation, with the reverse outcome. Voters, if you're going to buy into the mindset that we can alter criminal behavior solely by threatening with the DP, then recognize that that door swings both ways, but that the effects of reducing recidivism are far more pronounced. DP Morality: Our case examines the immorality of the DP, particularly with regards to justice and loss of innocent life. Con’s attempts to dismiss that on the basis that there is morality in punishing criminals is ridiculous - it does not justify the DP. So justice and immorality do have a place in this debate, and saving more innocent lives is not the sole impact that should be evaluated. There are several others to consider: All of life has value, no matter its perceived innocence or guilt. If we’re going to do a by-the-numbers comparison of life lost, then those numbers should include all lives. If innocent life does matter more, it is because of the unjustness of their sentencing. So if we consider these lives to be more important, then we need to consider all injustices, and the focus of this debate should be on the justness of the DP. The justice system being used to end an innocent life is not just another number - it represents an utter failure of that system, one that metes out death to individuals who are innocent. Meanwhile, if at some point in the future someone might decide to risk LWOP and carry out a homicide, that action reflects on that individual, not on the system as a whole. Their lives are innocent, but it is not the justice system ending them. The value difference is the means by which those lives were lost, and these have more weight because they affect the overall justness of the system. Deterrence: Most capital crimes are committed in the heat of the moment, whether under emotional stress or under the influence of drugs.[2] Even among those who plan out their crimes, the majority have a history of mood or psychotic disorders that impair their ability to think rationally.[3] None of these are deterred by rationality. Even the effect on rational people is not so clear-cut. The author of the paper cited in Con's R1 [1] that gives the 18 person deterrent effect also wrote another paper, which explained that effect appears to only happen in states where there have been more than 9 executions in the past 20 years.[4] That means most states have 0 effect, as they haven’t executed that many since 1976, let alone in the last 20 years.[5] The DP may be correlated with deterring some murders, but it also correlates with increased in-prison homicide. The vast majority of in-prison murders that occur are in states that have the DP, and inmate assaults on prison staff are overwhelmingly more common in these states as well.[6] Taken together, local jails and state and federal prisons deal with as much as 150 prisoner deaths per year, the vast majority of which take place in states with the DP.[7] This is a small wonder given the mental health problems the DP causes. There is no reason why those lives should be treated as less important. But for those who would avoid it, that is the result of the tortures that come with it, not of the sentence itself. If the only goal is to engender fear, then why not employ more egregious tortures? Con seems fine with the suffering of inmates and their families, destroying their inherent humanity, so long as deterrence may occur. Conclusion: Con has done nothing but provide a by-the-numbers case based solely in utilitarian cost-benefit analysis. On that front, we still outweigh. If the threat of death does deter, LWOP garners some of it as well. Meanwhile, we have explained how the DP has some negative effects on deterrence, how the DP leads to executions and suicides of innocent people, and how the recidivism rate is only held there by the punitive-focused system that the DP upholds. Con cannot solve for this harm. Our side in this debate is the only one that can reduce recidivism, a problem that leads to over 75% of criminals returning to prison for a multitude of crimes. At best, Con's case only marginally reduces the incidence of homicide. We reduce all criminal activity that results from recidivism, including homicide. We have also shown how we’re winning on a basic justice value. Cost-benefit analysis fails to take into account the fact that we're discussing a means for enforcing justice. That's what the DP, LWOP, and other sentences are there for. That's the reason why we consider them as a means for enforcing justice and not just random, brutal violence against offenders, though that would be effective for deterrence – we care about how even convicts are treated. We’ve demonstrated how the current system is incredibly unjust, to the wrongly accused, other inmates, and their families. We've also shown how a shift to rehabilitation can only occur following abolition of the DP, reducing undue suffering during and beyond the limits of incarceration.	CON	49
49	S965182df-A42b2acc0	All drugs should be legalized.	Notes: I would highly appreciate if my opponent sited his/her sources in a manner that is easy to understand. Due to the huge amount of sources, it is almost impossible to tell from which source my opponent is receiving his information. I suggest numbering them, or somehow listing them so it is easy for me, as well as the viewers to understand where my opponent is getting his/her information. Also, it appears to be as if my opponent agrees with the economical downfall playing a crucial negative impact of the legalization of drugs.Along with some of the information I have presented in regards to the effect of the legalization of drugs as far as the economy is concerned on a global scale. I would also like to point out that concerning rehabilitation centers as an effective role of the process of legalization of drugs is not an argument. It is a compromise. I personally agree that drug punishment should not be a punishment, rather it should be a cure. We can have a whole other debate in regards to the severity of drug laws, hinting that rehabilitation centers is relevant to this specific subject. R.1 Decriminalization effects on portugal In this section, I will focus mainly of Portugal’s drug use, as this is what my opponent is mainly referring to. Now, I would like to get a few crucial points out of the way. Decriminalization of drugs is not the sole cause of drug use, however economic, cultural, and social factors apply as well. (1) HIV, AIDS rates have also skyrocketed right after decriminalization reaching an all time high in Portugal. (2) However, the reason for the decrease is because Portugal’s society is mainly focused on the cure for drug use, rather than punishment. (3) Now, my opponent can argue that if we were to legalize all drugs, we ought to set up numerous rehabilitation centers, in order to decrease drug use and crime. This is true, however an invalid argument, as that is a compromise not an argument. Since my opponent did not state that in the resolution, therefore his argument in regards to Portugal falls. So, what are we left with? My opponent stated that drug induced deaths decreased after decriminalization, along with overall drug use, therefore making decriminalization affective. This is not the case as decriminalization played a very little role. The main reason for reduced drug use is Portugal focusing on how to find a cure, which is irrelevant. R.2 Public safety Since the title states “All Drugs should be legalized” I assumed we were referring to all current illicit drugs, disregarding the drugs that are already legal such as Alcohol or coffee. (I cannot survive 7:30am without the latter). However, Heroin, Crack Cocaine, Nicotine, and Methadone are most likely the most addictive drugs. (see full list at link).(4) Keep in mind that many crimes tend to have criminals under the influence of drugs as I have stated previously. 24.5% of violent offenses have reported to be under the influence of drugs and 29% of murders have reported to be under the influence of drugs, both in federal prisons. (5) Approximately 60% of the individuals arrested for most types of crimes test positive for drugs at arrest. This shows that drugs was the major contributor of the crime-if not the sole cause. (6) R.3 Cost and economy I apologize for the extreme generalization. However, In Canada the costs of substance abuse (including alcohol and tobacco) were calculated at 2.7 per cent of GDP (1992), with illicit drug abuse responsible for at least US$ 1.1 billion, equivalent to 0.2 per cent of GDP or US$ 40 per capita. Most costs, 60 per cent of the total, were due to productivity losses as a result of illness and premature death. Cost of life was calculated in these estimates using the human capital approach, i.e. discounting estimated lifetime earnings. The rising cost of criminal activities is not even included. A study for Australia estimated the costs of drug abuse (including both licit and illicit substances) to be equivalent to 4.8 per cent of GDP (1992), with costs related to illicit drug abuse amounting to $1.2 billion, i.e. 0.4 per cent of GDP or $70 per capita.42 The overall costs of substance abuse (licit and illicit) rose by less than 13 per cent between 1988 and 1992 in real terms; the increase in costs related to illicit drug consumption amounted to 25 per cent, and was thus almost twice as large. Truly, it is highly expected to see some downfalls on the economy, based on human deaths and consumption alone. Furthermore, we are also expected to see some struggles on entering the workforce as with an estimated 30% the world's labour force not productively employed and young people seeking jobs faster than they are created, the ranks of the unemployed, and their problems, continue to increase. However, making drugs available to the public means dragging employment rates even further behind. (7) Sources: 1.https://www.unodc.org... 2.http://en.wikipedia.org... 3.http://cannabisni.com... 4.https://www.duffysrehab.com... 5.http://www.policyalmanac.org... 6.https://ncadd.org... 7.https://www.unodc.org... (My previous sources were in a numerological order)	CON	50
50	S872162b1-Ab51a9044	Resolved: The US should abolish capital punishment.	"Before we begin, we'd like to note that our opponents have switched sides with us. Thus, they are advocating AGAINST the death penalty (DP) (Pro), and we are advocating for it (Con). I. Criminals Forfeit Their Rights In this country, we are all endowed with innumerable rights (that is, rights to not be prohibited from doing things) by virtue of our citizenship in the US. While our founding documents value respect for human rights, they only explicitly grant respect to the rights of US citizens. As all other citizens are also endowed with these rights, we gain a duty to not infringe upon their rights, so as to procure respect for our own. Society must sanction deviance from this model our country is founded upon, or our rights do not truly exist (that is, a right that may be violated at any time is not a right, as rights are inalienable, according to the Declaration of Independence). Thus, those who do not respect the rights of others forfeit their own rights. This is the foundation of the criminal justice system. Unless Pro advocates for no restriction of rights whatsoever (ie no criminal justice system, as detention inherently restricts a person's rights), they must agree to this principle. Since the DP is thus not immoral in any respect, we must weigh the costs and benefits of it to determine whether it should remain. We will show the greatest good comes from retention of the death penalty--the saving of innocent human life. II. The DP deters homicide The DP deters homicides by putting the fear of death into would-be criminals. Rational action theory suggests that all mentally stable humans perform a cost/benefit analysis prior to committing any action. This theory has been applied to criminology, and shows that the DP has a significant deterrent effect on homicides. 3-18 homicides are deterred per execution [1]. Furthermore, state-by-state analysis shows that the DP causes a significant drop in homicide rates. When New York State, New Hampshire and Kansas adopted the death penalty, there was a significant crime drop. When New Jersey and Massachusetts abolished it, the homicide rate rose. [2] Few studies contest the validity of the deterrent effect [3]. These studies are generally unreliable. For example, the study by Levitt, et al. is unreliable because it examines whether the DP deters crime, not homicide rates; however, the DP doesn't have a major effect on non-homicide crimes since it doesn't apply there. The study found that the DP does have an effect on homicide rates and misrepresents its own conclusion.[4] There are at least 17 highly reliable studies that demonstrate a deterrent effect, according to Lott. He correctly concludes: ""Generally, the studies over the last decade that examined how the murder rates in each state changed as they changed their execution rate found that each execution saved the lives of roughly 15 to 18 potential murder victims.""[5] As further evidence of the power of the deterrent effect, let us examine an actual case of where deterrence could have saved a life. Luis Vera burglarized the apartment of Rosa Velez, who was at home at the time. Vera shot her and killed her in a moment of panic. She later confessed: ""Yeah, I shot her...and I knew I wouldn't go to the chair.""[6] Had the DP existed, Velez likely would still be alive. In Pro's world, Velez deserved to die. And, on average, in Pro’s world, 448 more people die each year. In the process of saving 28 guilty lives per year, Pro is killing 448 innocents. Don't allow such a horrific world where brutal tragedies take place all the time. On to rebuttals! Sources: 1. http://www.washingtonpost.com... 2. http://www.nber.org... 3. http://www.cjlf.org... 4. http://scholar.harvard.edu... 5. http://www.foxnews.com... 6. http://admin.faulkner.edu..."	PRO	51
51	S6702cc42-A5d463041	Abortion should be legal	claim1: Not everybody, Including the women who actually got pregnant by doing irresponsible sex. (https://www. Youtube. Com/watch? V=-AsofoVl0GA this is a real story, Or something based on a real story) Even girls who got pregnant as early as 12-13 wouldn't abort. They don't have a need to. Only a few out of the few would abort their babies. claim2: Abortion is not murder. The baby aborted doesn't even have an identity, Nor that he/she will have a great great impact(let's say if Edison is being aborted by his mother, Then some of his inventions will presumably still be replaced by Tesla's system, And others' as well). Without somebody, The world can still operate. Even if Stalin and Washington didn't exist, The earth would still adapt on its own using its own way. If meat-eating is legal, Then abortion too, Consider all lives weighs. And no, It is not murder, Consider a human's personhood comes first at when it has an actual identity. If abortion is illegal, Then animal slaughtering should be too. Refute1: Abortion is selfish No it is not more selfish. The fact is, Even with no one on earth, The planet can still exist. Now abortion isn't losing anything important(unless there is as future telling machine that tells the baby will be the greatest thing ever after, Thus make the mother not abort). Human life is disposable indeed in the eyes of the greater nature, But it may not be in the eyes of the US government just because they are selfish and they want you to work in the country(the same reason why the US government doesn't like gamers, Because they aren't doing any good for them) Abortion is not good for them, But in reality in the greater nature it is normal. Abortion is not more selfish than the law that aborts the abortion-is-legal bill. Refute2: We should be responsible for pregnancy Oh yeah? Don't get anything wrong on the final exam, Don't make any mistake on your job, Don't lose a tournament in RoboWars! The reason this claim is false is because accidents may not be avoidable at some times. If you aborted then it is a mistake, And it happens. Everybody makes mistakes, And it weighs nothing to the society than to the person itself. It is really a bs move to put in jail for that. And if there is too much people, The country will allow abortion. China did this a few decades ago. Refute3: there will be less people Unless all people stop doing sex or all of them aborts, It is still tolerable. People aren't running short at this stage. Refute4: fetus feels pain Everybody feels pain when going out of mother's vagina, And you can't say the same thing caused death has more damage to himself than the same thing that just did some light damage. If you cut his arm open and he died, You are still doing the same thing than cutting another man's arm open and he survived. Putting the baby out for death is the same with to give birth to a baby. There are also babies who died after birth, And you can't blame the mother for that. And pain exists in many ways. You can't just shut the school system down because the student are committing suicide over the hard courses. Refute5:Women are suffering from psychological pain Oh yeah, Why? Maybe they didn't start a business earlier and they felt the same thing, And you can't just put someone in jail because they got no job. You can't just say it is putting pain in it thus it should be illegal. Car crash caused 40, 000 deaths per year, And cars are still in production. one may argue that cars and schools have a better use, But then abortion may ease one's problems by simply disposing the baby down. The baby doesn't even have an identity and it isn't going to do anything humanity can't replace elsewhere.	PRO	52
52	Se98fe508-Ab79eb3ae	Should immigrants in the United States illegally who are parents of us minors be deported	"Border Terror DA Links Border Border surveillance is necessary to prevent terrorism Wilson 2/26 (Reid Wilson, covers national politics and Congress for The Washington Post and author of Read In, The Post""s morning tip sheet on politics. He's a former editor in chief of The Hotline, the premier tip sheet on campaigns and elections and a graduate of The George Washington University, ""Texas officials warn of immigrants with terrorist ties crossing southern border"", February 26 2015, http://www.washingtonpost.com...) A top Texas law enforcement agency says border security organizations have apprehended several members of known Islamist terrorist organizations crossing the southern border in recent years, and while a surge of officers to the border has slowed the flow of drugs and undocumented immigrants, it""s costing the state tens of millions of dollars. In a report to Texas elected officials, the state Department of Public Safety says border security agencies have arrested several Somali immigrants crossing the southern border who are known members of al-Shabab, the terrorist group that launched a deadly attack on the Westgate shopping mall in Nairobi, Kenya, and Al-Itihaad al-Islamiya, another Somalia-based group once funded by Osama bin Laden. Another undocumented immigrant arrested crossing the border was on multiple U.S. terrorism watch lists, the report says. According to the report, one member of al-Shabab, apprehended in June 2014, told authorities he had been trained for an April 2014 suicide attack in Mogadishu. He said he escaped and reported the planned attack to African Union troops, who were able to stop the attack. The FBI believed another undocumented immigrant was an al-Shabab member who helped smuggle several potentially dangerous terrorists into the U.S. [Drone strike kills senior al-Shabab official in Somalia] Authorities also apprehended immigrants who said they were members of terrorist organizations in Sri Lanka and Bangladesh. The Department of Public Safety said the report, first published by the Houston Chronicle, was not meant for public distribution. ""[T]hat report was inappropriately obtained and [the Chronicle was] not authorized to possess or post the law enforcement sensitive document,"" department press secretary Tom Vinger said in an e-mail. U.S. Customs and Border Protection did not respond to requests for comment. The department said it had come into contact in recent years with ""special interest aliens,"" who come from countries with known ties to terrorists or where terrorist groups thrive. Those arrested include Afghans, Iranians, Iraqis, Syrians, Libyans and Pakistanis. In all, immigrants from 35 countries in Asia and the Middle East have been arrested over the past few years in the Rio Grande Valley. The department says there is no known intelligence that specifically links undocumented immigrants to terrorism plots, but the authors warn it""s almost certain that foreign terrorist organizations know of the porous border between the U.S. and Mexico. ""It is important to note that an unsecure border is a vulnerability that can be exploited by criminals of all kinds,"" Vinger said. ""And it would be naive to rule out the possibility that any criminal organizations around the world, including terrorists, would not look for opportunities to take advantage of security gaps along our country""s international border."" Border surveillance is k2 preventing terrorism Smarick et al. 12 (Kathleen Smarick and Gary D. LaFree of the National Consortium for the Study of Terrorism and Responses to Terrorism at the University of Maryland. 11/12 ""Border Crossings and Terrorist Attacks in the United States: Lessons for Protecting against Dangerous Entrants"" START, http://www.start.umd.edu... CCC) An essential step in this project was determining the frequency and dynamics of border crossings by individuals who conducted or who wanted to conduct terrorism-related activities in the United States. Towards that goal, the project built upon the existing holdings of the American Terrorism Study (ATS) in this effort. The ATS, housed at the University of Arkansas, catalogs and systematically codes information on more than 300 Federal court cases involving Federal terrorist charges since 1980 and, following a review of other possible resources, proved to be the most useful starting point for compiling open-source, quantitative data on terrorist border crossings. Since 1989, the American Terrorism Study (ATS) has received lists of court cases and associated indictees that resulted from an official FBI terrorism investigation spanning 1980 through 2004. Housed at the University of Arkansas"" Terrorism Research Center in Fulbright College (TRC), the ATS now includes almost 400 cases from the FBI lists. Of these, approximately 75% of cases have complete court documentation, and almost all of those collected have been coded into the ATS database, while the ATS team continues to track new cases by collecting, reviewing, and coding new and additional court documentation. The ATS includes terrorism incidents and attacks, thwarted or planned terrorism incidents sometimes referred to as preventions, material support cases for terrorism, general terrorism conspiracies, and in some cases, immigration fraud; the common denominator among all ATS events is that the FBI investigated these events as terrorism-related incidents. During preliminary research for this project, court records from 378 terrorism cases found in the ATS dataset were reviewed for information on potential border crossing events related to terrorism cases. The documents for each court case were manually reviewed by researchers to determine whether the collected records reported that one of the defendants or accomplices in a case crossed a U.S. border at some point. Thirty-eight percent of the reviewed cases""145 cases""from 1980 through 2004 were found to either have: "" direct mention of a border crossing in the court documents, or "" a link to a terrorism incident that involved a known border crossing, either before or after an incident. After compiling this list of court cases for inclusion, each identified court case was then linked to a criminal incident involving terrorism charges. Initial reviews revealed a connection to a border-crossing event in a total of 58 successful terrorist attacks, 51 prevented or thwarted attacks, 26 material support cases, 33 immigration fraud incidents, and 4 general terrorism conspiracies. Additional reviews of relevant information on indictees and their activities resulted in a reduction in the number of successful terrorist attacks associated with these individuals to a total of 43. Appendix 2 provides more details on the data collection process and how a reliable collection methodology was established to create the U.S. Terrorist Border Crossing Dataset (USTBC), using the ATS as a starting point. National Consortium for the Study of Terrorism and Responses to Terrorism A Department of Homeland Security Science and Technology Center of Excellence Border Crossings and Terrorist Attacks in the United States 12 Systematic evaluation by the research team revealed that the American Terrorism Study is a reliable and useful resource for identifying individuals associated with terrorist attacks or terrorist criminal cases (such as conspiracies) and for determining which of these individuals crossed U.S. borders in advance of or in the wake of their terrorism-related behavior. This is largely because the ATS is based on court documents, which among sources of data on terrorism are the most likely to reference relevant border crossing activity. The Global Terrorism Database, which is based primarily on media sources, can serve a supporting role in this research, but the ATS is the primary source allowing for construction of a new, relational database on U.S. Terrorist Border Crossings (USTBCs). That being said, it is important to recognize that the ATS is not a perfect data source. As noted above, its contents are limited to individuals and information related to court cases in which one or more defendant was charged with Federal terrorism charges. As such, the contents of ATS clearly represent a subset of all terrorists or attempted terrorists in the United States, as it systematically omits those who: "" were never arrested or faced any charges, "" were charged with offenses not directly related to terrorism, "" were charged at the non-Federal level, or "" were engaged in dangerous activity that does not meet the FBI""s definition of a terrorism case. Throughout this project, the research team was careful to respect the limitations of this data collection and to draw conclusions that recognize that the border crossing events included in this project likely represent a non-representative subset of all border crossing attempts by terrorists or intended terrorists. Despite these limitations, though, the data that was built upon the baseline of ATS provides important insights into the nexus between border crossings and terrorism. The U.S. Terrorism Border Crossing Dataset The final versions of the codebooks used to develop the U.S. Terrorist Border Crossing (USTBC) data collection are presented in Appendix 3. Based upon knowledge gained from pilot efforts (as discussed above and in Appendix 2), the project resulted in two codebooks""one focused on dynamics of a bordercrossing event involving someone associated with a Federal terrorism court case, and another focused on the characteristics of the individuals associated with Federal charges who were involved in the bordercrossing event. Data collection for the USTBC lasted for approximately one year and was primarily conducted by research assistants at the Terrorism Research Center at the University of Arkansas.3 The resultant data that comprise the USTBC are available in Appendix 4. Table 4 provides a snapshot summary of these data, which include detailed information on the location of an attempted crossing, the timing of a crossing relative to attempted or actual terrorist activity, the origin or destination of an attempted crossing, and more. The data also include specific information on border crossers, including their citizenship status, their criminal history, and key demographics (including level of education, marital status, etc.) Appendix 5 provides descriptive statistics from the border-crossing and border-crosser data. 3 Special thanks to Kim Murray and Summer Jackson of the Terrorism Research Center for their efforts in combing through the courtcase material and assembling these data for the USTBC. National Consortium for the Study of Terrorism and Responses to Terrorism A Department of Homeland Security Science and Technology Center of Excellence Border Crossings and Terrorist Attacks in the United States 13 Border Crossings Identified in USTBC Attempts to Enter the United States Of the 221 border crossings identified in this project as involving individuals who were indicted by the U.S. government in terrorism-related cases, the majority (129 crossings) involved an individual attempting to enter the United States, while the remainder (92 crossings) involved an individual attempting to exit the United States. Eighty-seven percent of the attempted border crossings were successful, rather than being thwarted by law enforcement or foiled by some other events or developments. Additional discussion on the nature of successful crossings versus those who were apprehended at the border is presented below. Among those attempts to enter the United States, the most frequent origin for these crossing efforts was Canada.4 But, as Figure 2 illustrates, such attempted entries originated from all corners of the world. US Border Patrol proves that surveillance is key to anti-terror efforts Stamey 14 (Barcley; DOMESTIC AERIAL SURVEILLANCE AND HOMELAND SECURITY: SHOULD AMERICANS FEAR THE EYE IN THE SKY; March 2014) The leading national agency currently using drones to combat a wide range of domestic threats is U.S. Customs and Border Protection. With its fleet of seven MQ-1 Predators and three MQ-1 Guardians""Predators modified for marine surveillance""CBP 26 is at the forefront of large-scale drone operations. With an annual budget exceeding $11 billion, CBP is well equipped for protecting our national security while combating potential terrorist threats.55 But how efficiently are those funds being used, and what is meant by effectiveness? According to Merriam-Webster, effectiveness is ""producing a decided, decisive, or desired effect or result.""56 Ultimately, that desired result is safe international borders. Accomplishing this result involves the apprehension of illegal immigrants, interdiction of illicit drugs, and prevention of terrorist infiltration, which CBP does quite well, but with respect to UAS, effectiveness must be viewed on a much broader scale. This section takes into account the size of CBP, its operational budget, and couples it with published results. According to CBP, the primary mission of drone use is ""anti-terrorism by helping to identify and intercept potential terrorists and illegal cross-border activity.""57 CBP uses its Predators and Reapers to accomplish this goal through human detection and tracking, surface asset coordination, and threat detection through IR sensors in multiple scenarios. Previously mentioned sensor suites allow the Predator to detect movement along the border, identify actual personnel numbers, and track the location of threats all while being unobserved to the individuals on the ground. With their long loiter times, Predators allow officials to monitor gaps along the border while maximizing the efforts of ground personnel in actual interdiction missions. After witnessing the functionality of actual Predator operations in Afghanistan, this author realizes the value in having high definition video sensors overhead during dangerous operations. This type of technology certainly has a place in homeland security missions, and future capabilities will provide a clear advantage to U.S. personnel in combating border security. This force multiplier mindset is one CBP has adopted and publicizes regularly to justify the success of its drone program. Long loiter times, remote area access, and flexibility during National Special Security Events are common claims. Border security stops terrorism Zuckerman, Bucci, Carafano, no date (Jessica Zuckerman, Steven P. Bucci, Ph.D. Director, Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign and National Security Policyj and James Jay Carafano, Ph.D. Vice President for the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for National Security and Foreign Policy, and the E. W. Richardson Fellow, 13, 7-22-2013, ""60 Terrorist Plots Since 9/11: Continued Lessons in Domestic Counterterrorism,"" Heritage Foundation, http://www.heritage.org... CCC) Chiheb Esseghaier and Raed Jaser""April 2013. Chiheb Esseghaier and Raed Jaser were arrested in April 2013 for attempting to carry out an attack on a Via Railway train travelling from Canada to the U.S. The attack, authorities claimed, was supported by an al-Qaeda element in Iran, although there is currently no evidence that it was state-sponsored.[205] The exact route of the targeted train has not been identified, and Iranian authorities vehemently deny that al-Qaeda is operating within Iranian borders. Esseghaier and Jaser have been charged in Canada with conspiracy to commit murder for the benefit of a terrorist group, participating in a terrorist group, and conspiring to interfere with transportation facilities for the benefit of a terrorist group. Esseghaier has also been charged with participating in a terrorist group, and both men face up to life in prison.[206] The two men are awaiting trial. Chiheb Esseghaier wants to represent himself, basing his defense on the Quran instead of on the Canadian criminal code, which has caused delays in the proceedings.[207] Continued use of border surveillance technology is crucial to the detection of and response to threats on the border Haddal 10, Specialist in Immigration Policy, 8/11/10 (Chad C. Haddal, Congressional Research Service report, August 11, 2010, ""Border Security: The Role of the U.S. Border Patrol"" https://www.fas.org..., accessed 7/15/15 JH @ DDI) Perhaps the most important technology used by the Border Patrol are the surveillance assets currently in place at the border. The program has gone through several iterations and name changes. Originally known as the Integrated Surveillance Information System (ISIS), the program""s name was changed to the America""s Shield Initiative (ASI) in FY2005. DHS subsequently folded ASI into the Secure Border Initative (SBI) and renamed the program SBInet Technology (SBInet). Once it is beyond the pilot phase, SBInet will, according to DHS, develop and install ""new integrated technology solutions to provide enhanced detection, tracking, response, and situational awareness capabilities.""19 The other program under SBI is the SBI Tactical Infrastructure program, which, according to DHS, ""develops and installs physical components designed to consistently slow, delay, and be an obstacle to illegal cross-border activity.""20 In the late 1990s, the Border Patrol began deploying a network of Remote Video Surveillance (RVS) systems (i.e., camera systems), underground sensors, and the Integrated Computer Assisted Detection (ICAD) database into a multi-faceted network designed to detect illegal entries in a wide range of climate conditions. This Integrated Surveillance Intelligence System (ISIS) attempted to ensure seamless coverage of the border by combining the feeds from multiple color, thermal, and infrared cameras mounted on different structures into one remote-controlled system with information generated by sensors (including seismic, magnetic, and thermal detectors). When a sensor is tripped, an alarm is sent to a central communications control room at a USBP station or sector headquarters. USBP personnel monitoring the control room screens use the ICAD system to re-position RVS cameras towards the location where the sensor alarm was tripped (although some camera positions are fixed and cannot be panned). Control room personnel then alert field agents to the intrusion and coordinate the response. Information gathered from surveillance activities is key to any effective response to terrorist threats along the border Fisher 12, U.S. Customs and Border Protection Office of Border Patrol Chief, 5/8/12 (Michael, Department of Homeland Security, ""Written testimony of U.S. Customs and Border Protection Office of Border Patrol Chief Michael Fisher for a House Committee on Homeland Security, Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security hearing titled ""Measuring Border Security: U.S. Border Patrol""s New Strategic Plan and the Path Forward."""" http://www.dhs.gov...; accessed 7/15/15 JH@ DDI) Information gathered from reconnaissance, community engagement, sign-cutting and technology together provide situational awareness and intelligence and helps us to best understand and assess the threats we face along our borders. Information and intelligence will empower Border Patrol leadership and front line agents to get ahead of the threat, be predictive and proactive. Integration denotes CBP corporate planning and execution of border security operations, while leveraging partnerships with other federal, state, local, tribal, and international organizations. Integration of effort with these organizations will ensure we bring all available capabilities and tools to bear in addressing threats. Lastly, through rapid response, we will deploy capabilities efficiently and effectively to meet and mitigate the risks we confront. Put simply, rapid response means the Border Patrol and its partners can quickly and appropriately respond to changing threats. Goal 1: Secure America""s Borders The 2012 Strategic Plan has two interrelated and interdependent goals. In the first goal, the Border Patrol will work with its federal, state, local, tribal, and international partners to secure America""s borders using information, integration and rapid response in a risk-based manner. There are five objectives within this goal: Prevent Terrorists and Terrorist Weapons from Entering the United States Manage Risk Disrupt and Degrade Transnational Criminal Organizations (TCOs) Whole-of-Government Approach Increase Community Engagement I. Prevent Terrorists and Terrorist Weapons from Entering the United States The current risk environment is characterized by constantly evolving threats that are both complex and varying, and the Border Patrol must strategically apply intelligence to ensure that operations are focused and targeted against the greatest threats. The Border Patrol""s ability to prevent and disrupt such threats is enhanced through increased information sharing and operational integration, planning, and execution with our domestic and foreign law enforcement partners. Integration with our federal, state, local, tribal, and international partners"" intelligence and enforcement capabilities into the planning and execution of CBP operations is critical to our ability to secure our nation""s borders. The use of necessary surveillance technology is key to the identification and prevention of terrorist threats on the border Office of Border Patrol 4, September 2004 (THE OFFICE OF BORDER PATROL AND THE OFFICE OF POLICY AND PLANNING, US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION, ""National Border Patrol Strategy"" http://www.au.af.mil..., accessed 7/15/15 JH @ DDI) The Border Patrol currently uses a mix of agents, information, and technology to control the border. The Border Patrol""s ability to establish situational awareness, monitor, detect, respond to, and identify potential terrorists, instruments of terrorism, and criminals relies heavily on interdiction and deterrence-based technology. Having the necessary technology to support the Border Patrol priority and traditional missions cannot be overstated. In the future, there must be continued assessment, development, and deployment of the appropriate mix of personnel, technology, and information to gain, maintain, and expand coverage of the border and ensure that resources are deployed in a cost-effective, efficient fashion. Technology which enhances operational awareness and effectiveness includes camera systems for day/ night/infrared work, biometric systems such as IDENT/IAFIS, processing systems like ENFORCE, sensoring platforms, large-scale gamma X-rays, and aerial platforms, and other systems. Technologies requiring modernization include wireless and tactical communications and computer processing capabilities. Coordination between Border Patrol and inspectional personnel at the ports of entry ensures the most efficient use of trained personnel and technology. In the future, the Border Patrol will take advantage of the targeting and selectivity tools made available in the Automated Commercial Environment (ACE) and the National Targeting Center. The continued testing, evaluation, acquisition, and deployment of appropriate border enforcement technologies will be pursued vigorously so that the maximum force-multiplier effect is achieved in support of both the priority and traditional missions. Any gap in security on the border allows international terror groups to come into the United States Wilson 15 [Reid Wilson, 2/26/15, covers national politics for the Washington Post, ""Texas officials warn of immigrants with terrorist ties crossing southern border,"" Washington Post, http://www.washingtonpost.com... jf] A top Texas law enforcement agency says border security organizations have apprehended several members of known Islamist terrorist organizations crossing the southern border in recent years, and while a surge of officers to the border has slowed the flow of drugs and undocumented immigrants, it""s costing the state tens of millions of dollars. In a report to Texas elected officials, the state Department of Public Safety says border security agencies have arrested several Somali immigrants crossing the southern border who are known members of al-Shabab, the terrorist group that launched a deadly attack on the Westgate shopping mall in Nairobi, Kenya, and Al-Itihaad al-Islamiya, another Somalia-based group once funded by Osama bin Laden. Another undocumented immigrant arrested crossing the border was on multiple U.S. terrorism watch lists, the report says. According to the report, one member of al-Shabab, apprehended in June 2014, told authorities he had been trained for an April 2014 suicide attack in Mogadishu. He said he escaped and reported the planned attack to African Union troops, who were able to stop the attack. The FBI believed another undocumented immigrant was an al-Shabab member who helped smuggle several potentially dangerous terrorists into the U.S. Authorities also apprehended immigrants who said they were members of terrorist organizations in Sri Lanka and Bangladesh. The Department of Public Safety said the report, first published by the Houston Chronicle, was not meant for public distribution. ""[T]hat report was inappropriately obtained and [the Chronicle was] not authorized to possess or post the law enforcement sensitive document,"" department press secretary Tom Vinger said in an e-mail. U.S. Customs and Border Protection did not respond to requests for comment. The department said it had come into contact in recent years with ""special interest aliens,"" who come from countries with known ties to terrorists or where terrorist groups thrive. Those arrested include Afghans, Iranians, Iraqis, Syrians, Libyans and Pakistanis. In all, immigrants from 35 countries in Asia and the Middle East have been arrested over the past few years in the Rio Grande Valley. The department says there is no known intelligence that specifically links undocumented immigrants to terrorism plots, but the authors warn it""s almost certain that foreign terrorist organizations know of the porous border between the U.S. and Mexico. ""It is important to note that an unsecure border is a vulnerability that can be exploited by criminals of all kinds,"" Vinger said. ""And it would be naive to rule out the possibility that any criminal organizations around the world, including terrorists, would not look for opportunities to take advantage of security gaps along our country""s international border."" Maximized surveillance on the border is key to stopping terrorism Willis et al 10 [Henry H. Willis, 2010, director of the RAND Homeland Security and Defense Center, with Joel B. Predd, Paul K. Davis and Wayne P. Brown, RAND.org, ""Measuring the Effectiveness of Border Security Between Ports-of-Entry"", http://www.rand.org..., jf] One of the unexpected results of our study was recognition of the importance of networked intelligence in elaborating objectives for and measuring effectiveness of border security.11 This came about for many reasons. First, all of the focus missions are best understood in national terms: Border security contributes significantly to several high-level national objectives, but results depend sensitively on interactions with and the performance of other federal and local agencies, as well as economic and demographic conditions outside of DHS""s control. Second, national-level effectiveness depends not just on individual component or agency effectiveness but also on components"" ability to share information and work collaboratively, i.e., to network. This is perhaps most obvious with respect to preventing terrorism, in that individuals might enter the country who are vaguely suspicious but who cannot reasonably be arrested at the border. Responsibility for follow-up then transfers to, e.g., the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). However, the FBI""s ability to follow up""either immediately or when further information emerges""might depend critically on information collected and effectively transferred by border agencies to the FBI. The word ""effectively"" is key because all agencies are deluged with data. The 9/11 Commission""s report dramatized the consequences of ineffectiveness: It is not that information for apprehending the perpetrators did not exist, but rather that the dots were not connected and the relevant agencies did not cooperate well (National Commission on Terrorist Attacks upon the United States, 2004). Third, national-level law enforcement also depends on the effectiveness of the justice system, including the ability to convict and punish. That, in turn, often depends on authorities being able to construct an extensive, fact-based story of criminal behavior from which, cumulatively, guilt can reasonably be inferred by a jury. Fourth, the nature and quality of information collected by border-security components, the consistency with which it is collected, and the effectiveness with which the data are both transferred to national databases and""where appropriate""highlighted in cross-agency actions, are leverage points for improved national-level effectiveness, especially in relation to terrorism- or drug-related functions. Border-security eff orts sometimes will query detected travelers against data sets of known or suspected terrorists or criminals. This is especially relevant at ports of entry, ports of egress in some modes, and in cases in which border enforcement detains an illegal crosser. In other settings, border-enforcement agencies collect as much information as possible on individuals, their conveyances, license plates, accounts, and other records of persons detained for crossing illegally but for whom no prior records exist. The same is true in the maritime regions when individuals are arrested for illegal drug smuggling or illegal migrant smuggling. The collected information can become future tactical intelligence (and used in prosecutions) if the detained person becomes involved in criminal or terrorist functions at a later date. Discussions with component agencies indicate that this is an important capability to measure. Technologically, it is even possible to tag individuals so that subsequent surveillance within the United States (or another country) is possible.12 Border surveillance prevents terrorist groups from attempting attacks Willis et al 10 [Henry H. Willis, 2010, director of the RAND Homeland Security and Defense Center, with Joel B. Predd, Paul K. Davis and Wayne P. Brown, RAND.org, ""Measuring the Effectiveness of Border Security Between Ports-of-Entry"", http://www.rand.org..., pg 19, jf] The principal contributions that border security makes to counterterrorism relate to preventing certain kinds of terrorist attacks dependent on flows into the country of people or materials. These contributions can be illustrated by considering what opportunities exist to disrupt terrorist attacks while they are being planned and orchestrated. Through a number of planning efforts, DHS and its components have developed detailed planning scenarios of terrorist events (DHS, 2006). Each of these scenarios has been deconstructed into attack trees that are useful for considering how DHS border-security programs contribute to terrorism security efforts. In their most generic form, these attack trees specify dimensions of attack scenarios with respect to building the terrorist team, identifying a target, and acquiring a weapon (see Figure 4.1). This decomposition of attack planning provides a structure around which to consider how interdiction, deterrence, and networked intelligence contribute to preventing terrorist attacks and, thus, why it is relevant to measure these functions. DHS border-security eff orts focus on interdiction of terrorist team members and weapons or weapon components when they cross U.S. borders. Examples of initiatives that are intended to enhance these capabilities include the Secure Border Initiative, the acquisition of Advanced Spectroscopic Portals for nuclear detection, the Secure Communities Initiative, and US-VISIT. In addition, it is often pointed out that, when border-security measures are perceived to be effective, terrorists groups may be deterred from attacking in particular ways, or possibly from attacking at all. This could result from awareness of what type of surveillance is occurring or the capability of interdiction systems. In either case, deterrence refers to the judgment of terrorists that they will not be successful, leading them to choose another course of action. Finally, many border-security initiatives also contribute information to the national networked-intelligence picture. For example, the Secure Communities Initiative has implemented new capabilities to allow a single submission of fingerprints as part of the normal criminal arrest and booking process to be queried against both the FBI and DHS immigration and terrorism databases. This effort makes it easier for federal and local law enforcement to share actionable intelligence and makes it more difficult for terrorists to evade border-security efforts. Drones Drones are critical to combat bio- and chemical-terror Koerner 2015 (Matthew R, Duke University School of Law, J.D. expected 2015, ""DRONES AND THE FOURTH AMENDMENT: REDEFINING EXPECTATIONS OF PRIVACY"", 64 Duke L.J. 1129) Senator Dianne Feinstein, a staunch advocate of governmental surveillance n1 and Chairman of the 113th Congress's Senate Intelligence Committee, n2 recently found herself, rather ironically, as the target of surveillance. n3 One day at her home, Senator Feinstein walked to the window to check on a protest that was taking place outside. n4 Much to her surprise, a small drone n5 hovered on the other side of the window, only inches away, spying on her. n6 The drone immediately flew away. n7 Senator Feinstein's experience is just one example of drones being used for surveillance within the United States. But her story and others like it n8 have sparked significant controversy over the use of drones for domestic surveillance, which falls within a broader debate [*1131] on privacy and governmental surveillance programs. n9 Advocates of robust federal surveillance policies champion governmental surveillance as the only way to prevent terrorist and cyber attacks against the United States. n10 President Barack Obama defended these surveillance programs as """"modest encroachments on privacy'"" that ""strike the ""right balance' between national security and civil liberties."" n11 In comparison, privacy advocates envision these surveillance programs leading to a dystopian, totalitarian government watching over its citizenry - undetected but omnipresent. n12 References to George Orwell's Nineteen Eighty-Four n13 abound. n14 [*1132] Apart from the surrounding privacy-concerns debate, drones currently provide many practical benefits and their projected applications seem limitless. n15 Based on their obvious advantage of being unmanned, drones have the capability to conduct missions previously considered too risky, dangerous, or impracticable. These applications are also provided at continuously decreasing costs and with the latest technological sophistication, such as the capability to see through physical obstructions, to detect various chemical and biological agents in the air, to recognize human faces and license plates, and to fly in strategic, coordinated formations. n16 Drones provide effective surveillance of the borders Spagat 2014 (Elliot, ""Drones replacing officers in Mexican border surveillance"", Nov 13; www.dailynews.com/social-affairs/20141113/drones-replacing-officers-in-mexican-border-surveillance) The U.S. government now patrols nearly half the Mexican border by drones alone in a largely unheralded shift to control desolate stretches where there are no agents, camera towers, ground sensors or fences, and it plans to expand the strategy to the Canadian border. It represents a significant departure from a decades-old approach that emphasizes boots on the ground and fences. Since 2000, the number of Border Patrol agents on the 1,954-mile border more than doubled "" to surpass 18,000 "" and fencing multiplied nine times to 700 miles. Under the new approach, Predator B aerial drones, used in the fight against insurgents in Afghanistan, sweep remote mountains, canyons and rivers with a high-resolution video camera and return within three days for another video in the same spot, two officials with direct knowledge of the effort said on condition of anonymity because details have not been made public. The two videos are then overlaid for analysts, who use sophisticated software to identify tiny changes "" perhaps the tracks of a farmer or cows, perhaps those of immigrants who entered the country illegally or perhaps a drug-laden Hummer, they said. About 92 percent of drone missions have shown no change in terrain, while the others raised enough questions to dispatch agents to determine if someone got away, sometimes by helicopter because the area is so remote. The agents look for any sign of human activity "" footprints, broken twigs, trash. About 4 percent of missions have been false alarms, like tracks of livestock or farmers, and about 2 percent are inconclusive. The remaining 2 percent offer evidence of illegal crossings from Mexico, which typically results in ground sensors being planted for closer monitoring. The government has operated about 10,000 drone flights under the strategy, known internally as ""change detection,"" since it began in March 2013. The flights currently cover about 900 miles, much of it in Texas, and are expected to expand to the Canadian border by the end of 2015. The purpose is to assign agents where illegal activity is highest, said R. Gil Kerlikowske, commissioner of Customs and Border Protection, the Border Patrol""s parent agency, which operates nine unmanned aircraft across the country. ""You have finite resources,"" he said in an interview. ""If you can look at some very rugged terrain (and) you can see there""s not traffic, whether it""s tire tracks or clothing being abandoned or anything else, you want to deploy your resources to where you have a greater risk, a greater threat."" If the video shows the terrain unchanged, Border Patrol Chief Michael Fisher calls it ""proving the negative"" "" showing there isn""t anything illegal happening there and therefore no need for agents and fences. The strategy was launched without fanfare and is being expanded as President Barack Obama prepares to issue an executive order by the end of this year to reduce deportations and enhance border security. Rep. Michael McCaul, a Texas Republican who chairs the House Homeland Security Committee, applauded the approach while noting surveillance gaps still remain. ""We can no longer focus only on static defenses such as fences and fixed (camera) towers,"" he said. Sen. Bob Corker, a Tennessee Republican who coauthored legislation last year to add 20,000 Border Patrol agents and 350 miles of fencing to the southwest border, said, ""If there are better ways of ensuring the border is secure, I am certainly open to considering those options."" Border missions fly out of Sierra Vista, home of the U.S. Army Intelligence Center at Fort Huachuca, or Corpus Christi, Texas. They patrol at altitudes between 19,000 at 28,000 feet and from between 25 and 60 miles of the border. The first step is for Border Patrol sector chiefs to identify areas least likely to attract smugglers, typically those far from towns and roads. Analysts scour the drone videos at operations centers in Riverside; Grand Forks, North Dakota; and Sierra Vista. After an initial survey, the drones return within a week for another sweep. Privacy advocates have raised concerns about drones since Customs and Border Protection introduced them in 2006, saying there is potential to monitor innocent people under no suspicion. Lothar Eckardt, the agency""s executive director of national air security operations, said law-abiding people shouldn""t worry and that cameras are unable to capture details like license plate numbers and faces on the ground. He looked on one September morning as a drone taxied down a runway in Sierra Vista, lifted off with a muffled buzz and disappeared over a rocky mountain range into a blue Arizona sky. About a dozen computer screens line the wall of their trailer, showing the weather, maps and real-time images of the ground below. Eckardt said there is ""no silver bullet"" for addressing border security but that using drones in highly remote areas is part of the overall effort. If there""s nothing there, he said, ""let""s not waste the manpower here. Let""s focus our efforts someplace else, where they""re needed."" Drones are necessary to protect the border Ingram 2013 (David, How drones are used for domestic surveillance, Jun 19, www.csmonitor.com/USA/Latest-News-Wires/2013/0619/How-drones-are-used-for-domestic-surveillance) The U.S. government has made no secret of its use of drones to monitor the United States border with Mexico. The Obama administration has been defending its surveillance tactics since former National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden released secret documents revealing a massive database of daily telephone records, as well as coordination between the NSA and social media companies. The programs are designed to target militants outside the United States who are suspected of planning attacks, but they inevitably gather some data on Americans, U.S. officials said. In a May speech, Obama defended the use of armed drones abroad but said the United States should never deploy armed drones over U.S. soil. The Justice Department had disclosed that two domestic law enforcement agencies use unmanned aircraft systems, according to a department statement sent to the Judiciary Committee and released on Wednesday by Grassley's office. The two are the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. Grassley sent a letter to Attorney General Eric Holder on Wednesday asking why the Justice Department did not earlier mention the FBI's use of drones. At Wednesday's hearing, Democratic Senator Dianne Feinstein of California said she was concerned about the privacy implications of drone surveillance. ""The greatest threat to the privacy of Americans is the drone and the use of the drone, and the very few regulations that are on it today,"" Feinstein said. Mueller reiterated that drone use is rare. ""It is very narrowly focused on particularized cases and particularized needs,"" he said. Mueller is due to retire when his term expires in September. Border drones effectively and efficiently monitor the border RussiaTimes ""14 (November 13, 2014, http://rt.com..., 7-3-15) Predator drones are silently patrolling almost half of the United States"" border with Mexico, looking for illegal immigrants, human traffickers and drug cartels in desolated areas the government agents can""t realistically patrol. The unmanned aircraft fly over about 900 miles of rural areas where there are no US Customs and Border Patrol (CPB) agents, camera towers, ground sensors or fences along the 1,954-mile border, according to a new report by the Associated Press. The Predator Bs use a high-resolution video camera and then return within three days for another video in the same spot, two officials told the wire service. The two videos are then overlaid for analysts who use sophisticated software to identify tiny changes. There are changes in terrain in only eight percent of the drone missions under the current strategy R10; known internally as ""change detection"" R10; since it began in March 2013. Of those flagged missions, about four percent were false alarms, like tracks from livestock or farmers, and about two percent are inconclusive to the agents dispatched to the area to investigate. The remaining 2 percent offer evidence R10; like footprints, broken twigs, trash R10; of illegal crossings from Mexico, which typically results in ground sensors being planted for closer monitoring. In the last year and a half, CPB has operated about 10,000 drone flights, with much of their missions over Texas. Border missions fly out of Sierra Vista, home of the U.S. Army Intelligence Center at Fort Huachuca, or Corpus Christi, Texas. They patrol at altitudes between 19,000 at 28,000 feet and between 25 and 60 miles of the border. The program is expected to expand the the Canadian border by the end of 2015. The purpose is to assign agents where illegal activity is highest, R. Gil Kerlikowske, commissioner of Customs and Border Protection, the Border Patrol's parent agency, which operates nine unmanned aircraft across the country, told AP. ""You have finite resources,"" he said in an interview. ""If you can look at some very rugged terrain (and) you can see there's not traffic, whether it's tire tracks or clothing being abandoned or anything else, you want to deploy your resources to where you have a greater risk, a greater threat."" Gregory McNeal, a law professor and drone expert at Pepperdine University, told NBC News in July that the money spent on drones is worth it. ""This is a better way to patrol the border than helicopters,"" he said. ""It""s not a comprehensive immigration solution or border security solution, but more surveillance time in the air will help plug gaps in the border."" A typical Predator drone can fly for 12 hours before landing, compared to three for a standard helicopter. But the cost is much higher: Predator drones require a crew of between five to eight people R10; plus maintenance staff R10; to operate, coming out to about $3,000 an hour to fly. And each one has an $18 million price tag, NBC News reported. CPB began rolling out Predators in 2005, but rapidly expanded the unmanned aerial reconnaissance operation along the US-Mexico border at the beginning of this decade, the Washington Post reported in 2011. Michael Kostelnik, a retired Air Force general and former test pilot who is the assistant commissioner of CPB""s Office of Air and Marine, told the Post then that he had yet to be challenged in Congress about the appropriate use of domestic drones. ""Instead, the question is: Why can""t we have more of them in my district?"" Kostelnik said. In July, President Barack Obama requested $39.4 million for aerial surveillance, including troops, along the US-Mexican border. The emergency funding was for 16,526 additional drone and manned aircraft flight hours for border surveillance, and 16 additional drone crews to better detect and stop illegal activity, according to administration officials. The request was in response to the humanitarian crisis after tens of thousands of unaccompanied children and families illegally entered the country in the first half of the year. ""Border Patrol wants the money and it wants the drones,"" McNeal said. ""This is the kind of crisis where, if you are Border Patrol, you seize the opportunity to get more funding from Congress."" The agency""s ""unmanned and manned aircraft can continue to support ongoing border security operations, specifically regarding the tracking of illegal cross-border smuggling operations,"" a CBP official told Nextgov. The president""s request was part of a larger funding appeal of $3.7 billion to deal with the illegal immigrants and border security problems. In January, CPB was forced to ground its entire fleet of drones after a mechanical function forced a crew to crash an unmanned aircraft valued at $12 million. The mishap lowered the number of agency drones to only nine. Domestic drones k2 solve for terrorism Bauer 13 (Max Bauer, of ACLU of Massachusetts 9-11-2013, ""Domestic Drone Surveillance Usage: Threats and Opportunities for Regulation,"" https://privacysos.org... CCC) Unmanned aerial vehicles, commonly known as drones, are an emerging and rapidly-expanding development in domestic surveillance technology. [4] On Valentine""s Day 2012, President Barack Obama signed the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012, legislation authorizing the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to develop regulations to facilitate the growing usage of drones in domestic airspace. [5] Drones are best known for their use in military operations [6] including the use of weaponized drones for targeted killing. But drones have been used for domestic surveillance purposes for years [7] and their usage is expected to grow exponentially. [8] The FAA has issued 1,428 drone operator permits since 2007 (as of mid-February) and predicts there will be 10,000 drones deployed within the next five years. [9] A public information request by the Electronic Frontier Foundation showed that numerous universities and law enforcement agencies have been approved to use drones by the FAA. [10] Of course, the widespread use of drones for domestic surveillance raises serious privacy concerns. [11] Drones can be outfitted with high definition [12] and infrared cameras, [13] and even license plate readers. [14] Drones ""present unique threats to privacy,"" in the words of one privacy advocate. [15] Why? They are smaller "" potentially insect-sized, [16] can fly longer "" perhaps soon in perpetuity, [17] and are not bound by the historical, practical check on law enforcement excesses we've had as a result of limited police resources. [18] In a seminal 1890 law review article aptly-titled The Right to Privacy, future Supreme Court Justice Louis Brandeis recognized that ""instantaneous photographs"" have invaded the secret precincts of private and domestic life""Of the desirability "" indeed of the necessity "" of some such protection there can, it is believed, be no doubt."" [19] Brandeis and his co-author Samuel Warren were ahead of their time when they wrote that article but even they couldn""t foresee anything like the domestic surveillance schemes that have arisen over a century later. Drones Used in Massachusetts and Response to Boston Marathon Bombings. Late in 2012, the Boston Globe reported that a SWAT team in Massachusetts had filed an application with the FAA for a drone. [20] As of April 2013, there were no police drones yet in Massachusetts but Waltham-based defense contractor Raytheon was flying many of them in testing capacities. [21] Surveillance and war contracting companies hope to expand their market from military to domestic law enforcement. [22] Following the explosion of two bombs at the 2013 Boston Marathon, parts of the city shut down as the search for a suspect continued, prompting Ron Paul to write: ""This unprecedented move should frighten us as much or more than the attack itself."" [23] Boston Police Commissioner Ed Davis told the public shortly afterward that he seeks more surveillance cameras (there are already hundreds) in downtown Boston. [24] And further, he said, he wants to have drone surveillance for next year""s marathon. [25] Drones K2 stop terrorism Byman, 13 (Daniel L. Byman, Director of research at Center for Middle East Policy, 8/2013, http://www.brookings.edu... CCC) The Obama administration relies on drones for one simple reason: they work. According to data compiled by the New America Foundation, since Obama has been in the White House, U.S. drones have killed an estimated 3,300 al Qaeda, Taliban, and other jihadist operatives in Pakistan and Yemen. That number includes over 50 senior leaders of al Qaeda and the Taliban""top figures who are not easily replaced. In 2010, Osama bin Laden warned his chief aide, Atiyah Abd al-Rahman, who was later killed by a drone strike in the Waziristan region of Pakistan in 2011, that when experienced leaders are eliminated, the result is ""the rise of lower leaders who are not as experienced as the former leaders"" and who are prone to errors and miscalculations. And drones also hurt terrorist organizations when they eliminate operatives who are lower down on the food chain but who boast special skills: passport forgers, bomb makers, recruiters, and fundraisers. Drones have also undercut terrorists"" ability to communicate and to train new recruits. In order to avoid attracting drones, al Qaeda and Taliban operatives try to avoid using electronic devices or gathering in large numbers. A tip sheet found among jihadists in Mali advised militants to ""maintain complete silence of all wireless contacts"" and ""avoid gathering in open areas."" Leaders, however, cannot give orders when they are incommunicado, and training on a large scale is nearly impossible when a drone strike could wipe out an entire group of new recruits. Drones have turned al Qaeda""s command and training structures into a liability, forcing the group to choose between having no leaders and risking dead leaders Drones take out terrorist leaders Al-Haj, 15 (Ahmed Al-Haj, writer for the Stars & Stripes and AP the big story, 7/10/2015, http://www.stripes.com... CCC) Yemeni security and military officials say a suspected U.S. drone strike killed four al-Qaida members travelling by car in the coastal city of Mukalla. The officials say the airstrike took place on Friday night in Mukalla, the capital of Yemen's sprawling eastern Hadramawt province. The explosion was heard in some parts of the city. Al-Qaida's Yemen branch, considered to be the most dangerous offshoot of the terror network, has made gains in the province and captured Mukalla earlier this year. The officials say at least five other militants were wounded in the airstrike. The officials spoke on condition of anonymity because they are not authorized to talk to reporters. Al-Qaida has profited from the turmoil that has engulfed Yemen, and U.S. drones have continued to target top al-Qaida leaders there. AT Retaliation AT: Retaliation Ayson flips neg- terrorism is not an existential risk Ayson 10 (Robert, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, ""After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,"" Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, 33.7, Francis & Taylor) A terrorist nuclear attack, and even the use of nuclear weapons in response by the country attacked in the @257;rst place, would not necessarily represent the worst of the nuclear worlds imaginable. Indeed, there are reasons to wonder whether nuclear terrorism should ever be regarded as belonging in the category of truly existential threats. A contrast can be drawn here with the global catastrophe that would come from a massive nuclear exchange between two or more of the sovereign states that possess these weapons in signi@257;cant numbers. Even the worst terrorism that the twenty-@257;rst century might bring would fade into insigni@257;cance alongside considerations of what a general nuclear war would have wrought in the Cold War period. And it must be admitted that as long as the major nuclear weapons states have hundreds and even thousands of nuclear weapons at their disposal, there is always the possibility of a truly awful nuclear exchange taking place precipitated entirely by state possessors themselves. No US nuclear retaliation Neely 13 (Meggaen Neely, The George Washington University Master of Arts (M.A.), Security Policy Studies 2012""2014 (expected) Baylor University Master of Arts (M.A.), Public Policy and Administration 2010""2012, Richard D. Huff Distinguished Masters Student in Political Science (2012) Baylor University Bachelor of Arts (B.A.), Political Science and Government, Research Assistant, Elliott School at George Washington University, Research Intern, Project on Nuclear Issues (PONI) at Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) Communications Intern at Federation of American Scientists Graduate Assistant at Department of Political Science, Baylor University, ""Doubting Deterrence of Nuclear Terrorism"", March 21, 2013, http://csis.org...) Because of the difficulty of deterring transnational actors, many deterrence advocates shift the focus to deterring state sponsors of nuclear terrorism. The argument applies whether or not the state intended to assist nuclear terrorists. If terrorists obtain a nuclear weapon or fissile materials from a state, the theory goes, then the United States will track the weapon""s country of origin using nuclear forensics, and retaliate against that country. If this is U.S. policy, advocates predict that states will be deterred from assisting terrorists with their nuclear ambitions. Yet, let""s think about the series of events that would play out if a terrorist organization detonated a weapon in the United States. Let""s assume forensics confirmed the weapon""s origin, and let""s assume, for argument""s sake, that country was Pakistan. Would the United States then retaliate with a nuclear strike? If a nuclear attack occurs within the next four years (a reasonable length of time for such predictions concerning current international and domestic politics), it seems unlikely. Why? First, there""s the problem of time. Though nuclear forensics is useful, it takes time to analyze the data and determine the country of origin. Any justified response upon a state sponsor would not be swift. Second, even if the United States proved the country of origin, it would then be difficult to determine that Pakistan willingly and intentionally sponsored nuclear terrorism. If Pakistan did, then nuclear retaliation might be justified. However, if Pakistan did not, nuclear retaliation over unsecured nuclear materials would be a disproportionate response and potentially further detrimental. Should the United States launch a nuclear strike at Pakistan, Islamabad could see this as an initial hostility by the United States, and respond adversely. An obvious choice, given current tensions in South Asia, is for Pakistan to retaliate against a U.S. nuclear launch on its territory by initiating conflict with India, which could turn nuclear and increase the exchanges of nuclear weapons. Hence, it seems more likely that, after the international outrage at a terrorist group""s nuclear detonation, the United States would attempt to stop the bleeding without a nuclear strike. Instead, some choices might include deploying forces to track down those that supported the suicide terrorists that detonated the weapon, pressuring Pakistan to exert its sovereignty over fringe regions such as the Federally Administered Tribal Areas, and increasing the number of drone strikes in Waziristan. Given the initial attack, such measures might understandably seem more of a concession than the retaliation called for by deterrence models, even more so by the American public. This is not an argument against those technologies associated with nuclear forensics. The United States and International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) should continue their development and distribution. Instead, I question the presumed American response that is promulgated by deterrence advocates. By looking at possibilities for a U.S. response to nuclear terrorism, a situation in which we assume that deterrence has failed, we cast doubt on the likelihood of a U.S. retaliatory nuclear strike and hence cast doubt on the credibility of a U.S. retaliatory nuclear strike as a deterrent. Would the United States launch a nuclear weapon now unless it was sure of another state""s intentional sponsorship of nuclear terrorism? Any reasonable doubt of sponsorship might stay the United States"" nuclear hand. Given the opaqueness of countries"" intentions, reasonable doubt over sponsorship is inevitable to some degree. Other countries are probably aware of U.S. hesitance in response to terrorists"" use of nuclear weapons. If this thought experiment is true, then the communication required for credible retaliatory strikes under deterrence of nuclear terrorism is missing. The threat of a nuclear retaliation is exaggerated "" even stolen material can be easily traced Lieber and Press 13 (*Keir A. Lieber and **Daryl G. Press, *Received his M.A. and Ph.D. in Political Science from the University of Chicago, Associate Professor in the Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service and the Department of Government, **Associate Professor in the Department of Government, Dartmouth College. He received a Ph.D. in Political Science from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, ""Why States Won""t Give Nuclear Weapons to Terrorists"", Summer 2013, International Security, Vol. 38, No. 1, Pages 80-104) This gloomy picture overstates the difficulty of determining the source of stolen material after a nuclear terrorist attack. In the wake of a detonation, the possibility of stolen fissile material complicates the task of attribution""but only marginally. At the end of the Cold War, several countries""particularly in the former Soviet Union""confronted major nuclear security problems, but great progress has been made since then.40 Although no country has perfect nuclear security, today the greatest concerns surround just five countries: Belarus, Japan, Pakistan, Russia, and South Africa.41 In addition, not all of those states are equally worrisome as potential sources of nuclear theft. Substantial concerns exist about the security of fissile materials in Pakistan and Russia (the latter if simply because of the large size of its stockpile), but Belarus, Japan, and South Africa would likely be quickly and easily ruled out as the source of stolen fissile material. Belarus has a relatively small stockpile of fissile material""approximately 100 kilograms of HEU42""so in the wake of a nuclear terrorist attack, it would be easy for Belarus to show that its stockpile remained intact.43 Similarly, Japan (one of the United States"" closest allies) and South Africa would be keen to allow the United States to verify the integrity of their full stocks of materials. (In the wake of a nuclear terror attack, a lack of full cooperation in showing all materials accounted for would be highly revealing.) Iran is not believed to have any weapons-usable nuclear material to steal,44 although that could change. In short, a nuclear handoff strategy disguised as a loose nukes problem would be very precarious.45 No retaliation "" international cooperation and limited suspects solve Lieber and Press 13 (*Keir A. Lieber and **Daryl G. Press, *Received his M.A. and Ph.D. in Political Science from the University of Chicago, Associate Professor in the Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service and the Department of Government, **Associate Professor in the Department of Government, Dartmouth College. He received a Ph.D. in Political Science from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, ""Why States Won""t Give Nuclear Weapons to Terrorists"", Summer 2013, International Security, Vol. 38, No. 1, Pages 80-104) There are at least five reasons, however, to expect that attributing a nuclear terrorist attack would be easier than attributing a conventional terrorist attack. First, no terrorism investigation in history has had the resources that would be deployed to investigating the source of a nuclear terror attack""particularly one against the United States or a U.S. ally. Rapidly attributing the attack would be critical, not merely as a first step toward satisfying the rage of the victims but, more importantly, to determine whether additional nuclear attacks were imminent. The victim would use every resource at its disposal"" money, threats, and force""to rapidly identify the source of the attack.47 If necessary, any investigation would go on for a long time; it would never ""blow over"" from the victim""s standpoint. The second reason why attributing a nuclear terror attack would be easier than attributing a conventional terrorist attack is the level of international assistance the victim would likely receive from allies, neutrals, and even adversaries. An attack on the United States, for example, would likely trigger unprecedented intelligence cooperation from its allies, if for no other reason than the fear that subsequent attacks might target them. Perhaps more important, even adversaries of the United States""particularly those with access to fissile materials""would have enormous incentives to quickly demonstrate their innocence. To avoid being accused of sponsoring or supporting the attack, and thus to avoid the wrath of the United States, these countries would likely go to great lengths to demonstrate that their weapons were accounted for, that their fissile materials had different isotopic properties than the type used in the attack, and that they were sharing any information they had on the attack. The cooperation that the United States received from Iran and Pakistan in the wake of the September 11 attacks illustrates how potential adversaries may be motivated to help in the aftermath of an attack and stay off the target list for retaliation.48 The pressure to cooperate after an anonymous nuclear detonation on U.S. soil would be many times greater.49 Third, the strong positive relationship between the number of fatalities stemming from an attack and the rate of attribution (as depicted in figures 1 to 3 above) suggests that the probability of attribution after a nuclear attack"" with its enormous casualties""should be even higher. The 97 percent attribution rate for attacks that killed ten or more people on U.S. soil or that of its allies is based on a set of attacks that were pinpricks compared to nuclear terrorism. The data in those figures suggest that our conclusions understate the actual likelihood of nuclear attribution. Fourth, the challenge of attribution after a terrorist nuclear attack should be easier than after a conventional terrorist attack, because the investigation would begin with a highly restricted suspect list. In the case of a conventional terror attack against the United States or an ally, one might begin the investigation at the broadest level with the U.S. Department of State""s list of fifty-one foreign terrorist organizations. In the case of a nuclear terror attack, only fifteen of these FTOs have state sponsors""and only one sponsor (Pakistan) has either nuclear weapons or fissile materials. (If Iran acquires nuclear weapons, that number will grow to two, but there is no overlap between the terror groups that Pakistan supports and those that Iran assists.) Finally, any operation to detonate a nuclear weapon would involve complex planning and coordination""securing the weapon, learning to use it, planning the time and location of detonation, moving the weapon to the target, and conducting the attack. Even if only a small cadre of operatives knew the nuclear nature of the attack, the planning of a spectacular operation would be hard to keep secret.50 For example, six months prior to the September 11 attacks, Western intelligence detected numerous indications that al-Qaida was planning a major attack. The intelligence was not speci fic enough""or the agencies were not nimble enough""to prevent the operation, but the indicators were ""blinking red"" for months, directing U.S. attention to al-Qaida as soon as the attacks began.51 Turns Case Terrorism is used as a justification for increased surveillance "" empirics prove and turns case Haggerty and Gazso 2005 (Kevin, Professor of Criminology and Sociology at the University of Alberta; Amber, Associate Professor in the Department of Sociology at York University, The Canadian Journal of Sociology / Cahiers canadiens de sociologie, Vol. 30, No. 2 ( Spring, 2005), pp. 169-187 ""Seeing beyond the Ruins: Surveillance as a Response to Terrorist Threats"" JSTOR; accessed 7/17/15 JH @ DDI) A climate of fear and anxiety helped ease the passage of such laws (Davis, 2001). However, a great deal of organizational opportunism was also at work. Many of the surveillance proposals adopted in the days after the attack were recycled from earlier legislative efforts. In previous incarnations these proposals had often been legitimated as essential for the international ""war on drugs"" or to address other crimes, such as money laundering. The September 11 th attacks gave the authorities a new and apparently unassailable legitimation for long-standing legislative ambitions. Before the dust had settled on Manhattan, the security establishment had mobilized to expand and intensify their surveillance capabilities, justifying existing proposals as necessary tools to fight the new war against terrorism. Ultimately, the police, military and security establishment reaped an unanticipated windfall of increased funding, new technology and loosened legislative constraints by strategically invoking fears of future attacks. There are several examples of such opportunism. Since at least 1999, when Congress initially turned down their request, the U.S. Justice Department has lobbied for the development of new ""secret search"" provisions. Likewise, prior to the attacks, the FBI and the National Telecommunications and Information Systems Security Committee had a lengthy shopping list of desired surveillance-related measures including legal enhancements to their wiretapping capabilities, legal constraints on the public use of cryptography, and provisions for governmental agents to compel Internet service providers to provide information on their customers (Burnham, 1997). All of these proposals were recycled and implemented after the September 11th attacks now justified as integral tools in the ""war on terrorism."" New provisions requiring banks to exercise ""due diligence"" in relation to their large depositors were originally justified by the authorities as a means to counter the ""war on drugs."" The opportunism of many of these efforts was inadvertently revealed by an RCMP Sergeant when, during a discussion about new official antiterrorism powers to monitor financial transactions, he noted that: ""We've been asking for something like this for four years. It's really our best weapon against biker gangs"" [emphasis added] (Corcan, 2001). In Canada, the Federal Privacy Commissioner was particularly alarmed by the development of what he referred to as a ""Big Brother database."" This amounts to a detailed computerized record of information about Canadian travelers. Although justified as a means to counter terrorism, the data will be made available to other government departments for any purpose they deem appropriate. Such provisions raise the specter of informational ""fishing expeditions."" Indeed, the Canadian government has already indicated that this ostensible anti-terrorist database will be used to help monitor tax evaders and catch domestic criminals. It will also be used to scrutinize an individual's travel history and destinations, in an effort to try and determine whether they might be a pedophile or money launderer (Radwanski, 2002). While these are laudable goals, they also reveal how a host of other surveillance agendas have been furthered by capitalizing on the new anti-terrorism discourse. Lone wolf terror attacks are used to justify disproportionate increases in surveillance and military operations abroad Lennard, Senior News Analyst for Vice News, 10/27/14 (Natasha Lennard, Brooklyn-based Senior News Analyst for Vice News, VICE News, October 27, 2014, ""'Lone Wolf' Terrorist Acts Will Be Used to Justify the Surveillance State"" https://news.vice.com..., accessed 7/17/15 JH @ DDI) The phenomenon of individuals committing violent and murderous acts in the name of an ideology is nothing new in the US. The FBI's Operation Lone Wolf investigated white supremacists encouraging autonomous violent acts in the 1990s. Why, then, are we seeing pundits and politicians newly focus on the ""lone wolf"" category? There's no simple answer, but we can at the very least see that the old binary, distinguishing terror as the act of networked groups versus lone madman mass killings "" a distinction that has tacitly undergirded post-9/11 conceptions of terrorism "" doesn't serve the latest iteration of the war on terror. California Senator Dianne Feinstein, speaking on CNN's State of the Union on Sunday, suggested that ""the Internet, as well as certain specific Muslim extremists, are really firing up this lone-wolf phenomenon."" Whether intentionally or not, the Senate Intelligence Committee chair performed a lot of political work with that one comment. Crystallizing ""lone wolves"" as a key threat domestically helps legitimize the US's current military operation against the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria. With or without established connections, the Islamic State's far-reaching tentacles of online influence encouraging individuals worldwide cement the group as a threat to the homeland "" which is always useful for politicians struggling to legally justify another protracted war. In this way, attributing attacks to homegrown ""lone wolves"" is more useful for current US political interests than attributing them to madness alone. The assumption that terror acts were always borne of connected networks problematically buoyed domestic counter-terror efforts that saw entire communities profiled as potential threats. Which is not to say that ""lone wolf terrorist"" is a flawed designation for attacks by ideologically motivated individuals. In many ways it seems apt, and any challenge is welcome to the all too basic distinction that imbues group terror with motive while dismissing individual acts as madness. The ""lone wolf"" straddles the ill-conceived gap between madman and terrorist node. It's an intersection all too complicated for the inexpert punditry of Fox News: ""They are terrorist acts, to be sure,"" Megyn Kelly said about Canadian gunman Michael Zehaf-Bibeau, adding ""but this guy was also a nutcase."" Furthermore, the assumption that terror acts were always borne of connected networks problematically buoyed domestic counter-terror efforts that saw entire communities profiled as potential threats. Under the premise that terror networks ran like arteries through US Muslim communities enabled an era of profile-driven preemptive policing that has been nothing short of racist. Entire mosques in New York were designated terrorist organizations to enable police surveillance. The NSA's meta-data collections claim justifiability on the premise that terror was locatable by tracing networks of communication. The ""lone wolf"" phenomenon should at least prompt the questioning of the sort of profile-based counter-terror efforts that assumed terror lurked in any network of Muslims, and that the mass hoarding of communications data was vital to national security. However, the rhetoric surrounding this type of domestic threat already bodes ill for civil liberties. If the hunt for terrorist networks has been plagued by ethnic profiling and overreaching spycraft, an established threat of ""lone wolf"" attacks gives a defensive imprimatur for unbounded NSA-style surveillance "" anyone can wield a hatchet with ideological ire. As Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee Michael McCaul said on This Week, finding such lone actors in advance of attacks is like ""finding a needle in a haystack."" And as Feinstein said the same day, ""You have to be able to watch it, and you have to be able to disrupt them."" As such, the era of the ""lone wolf"" terrorist does not only spell the end of the bunk distinction between motivated group and deranged individual. It ushers in the dawn of a new era of justification for our totalized state of surveillance and national security paranoia. Surveillance would increase after a terrorist attack Feaver 1/13/15 (Peter D., 1/13/15, Foreign Policy, ""10 Lessons to Remember After a Terrorist Attack,"" Peter is a professor of political science and public policy and Bass Fellow @ Duke University, and director of the Triangle Institute for Security Studies and the Duke Program in American Grand Strategy, http://foreignpolicy.com..., 7/16/15, SM) In particular, it is striking how some of the things that were ""obvious"" in the days and weeks after 9/11, but then were gradually forgotten, have become obvious again:W06; Terrorists succeed when they are abetted by intelligence failures. Or, put another way, terrorists only need to get lucky once to ""succeed,"" whereas counterterrorism has to be lucky all the time to ""succeed.""W06; Even robust intelligence and law enforcement may not guarantee 100 percent safety and security. By global standards "" certainly by the standards of Western democracies "" France has a particularly formidable counterterrorist structure. But it failed in this instance.W06; When terrorists succeed in an attack, citizens demand that the government do more to protect them "" even if they have already been doing a lot. And steps that would have seemed heavy handed before the attack, say aggressive surveillance of suspected terrorists or visible demonstrations of presence by the security forces, are deemed not just tolerable but necessary. Moreover, savvy political leaders will understand that one of the benefits of a stronger official response is that it is a hedge both against dangerously stronger vigilantism and also against additional pressure from some segments of the public to do more than is wise. Terrorism leads to crackdowns History.com, Reaction to 9/11, http://www.history.com..., 2010 ""Today,"" the French newspaper Le Monde announced on September 12, 2001, ""we are all Americans."" People around the world agreed: The terrorist attacks of the previous day had felt like attacks on everyone, everywhere. They provoked an unprecedented expression of shock, horror, solidarity and sympathy for the victims and their families. Citizens of 78 countries died in New York, Washington, D.C., and Pennsylvania on September 11, and people around the world mourned lost friends and neighbors. They held candlelight vigils. They donated money and goods to the Red Cross and other rescue and relief organizations. Flowers piled up in front of American embassies. Cities and countries commemorated the attacks in a variety of ways: The Queen Mother sang the American national anthem at Buckingham Palace""s Changing of the Guard, while in Brazil, Rio de Janeiro put up huge billboards that showed the city""s famous Christ the Redeemer statue embracing the New York City skyline. Meanwhile, statesmen and women rushed to condemn the attacks and to offer whatever aid they could to the United States. Russian president Vladimir Putin called the strikes ""a blatant challenge to humanity,"" while German chancellor Gerhard Schroeder declared that the events were ""not only attacks on the people in the United States, our friends in America, but also against the entire civilized world, against our own freedom, against our own values, values which we share with the American people."" He added, ""We will not let these values be destroyed."" Canadian Prime Minister Jean Chretien denounced the ""cowardly and depraved assault."" He tightened security along the border and arranged for hundreds of grounded airplanes to land at Canadian airports. Even leaders of countries that did not tend to get along terribly well with the American government expressed their sorrow and dismay. The Cuban foreign minister offered airspace and airports to American planes. Chinese and Iranian officials sent their condolences. And the Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat, visibly dismayed, told reporters in Gaza that the attacks were ""unbelievable, unbelievable, unbelievable."" ""We completely condemn this very dangerous attack,"" he said, ""and I convey my condolences to the American people, to the American president and to the American administration."" But public reaction was mixed. The leader of the Islamic militant group Hamas announced that ""no doubt this is a result of the injustice the U.S. practices against the weak in the world."" Likewise, people in many different countries believed that the attacks were a consequence of America""s cultural hegemony, political meddling in the Middle East and interventionism in world affairs. The Rio billboards hadn""t been up for long before someone defaced them with the slogan ""The U.S. is the enemy of peace."" Some, especially in Arab countries, openly celebrated the attacks. But most people, even those who believed that the United States was partially or entirely responsible for its own misfortune, still expressed sorrow and anger at the deaths of innocent people. On September 12, the 19 ambassadors of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) declared that the attack on the United States was an attack on all of the member nations. This statement of solidarity was mostly symbolic""NATO did not authorize any specific military action""but it was still unprecedented. It was the first time that the organization had ever invoked the mutual defense section of its charter (intended to protect vulnerable European nations from Soviet invasion during the Cold War). NATO eventually sent five airplanes to help keep an eye on American airspace. Likewise, on September 12 the United Nations Security Council called on all nations to ""redouble their efforts"" to thwart and prosecute terrorists. Two weeks later, it passed another resolution that urged states to ""suppress the financing of terrorism"" and to aid in any anti-terrorism campaigns. But these declarations of support and solidarity didn""t mean that other countries gave the United States a free hand to retaliate however, and against whomever, it pleased. Allies and adversaries alike urged caution, warning that an indiscriminate or disproportionate reaction could alienate Muslims around the world. In the end, almost 30 nations pledged military support to the United States, and many more offered other kinds of cooperation. Most agreed with George Bush that, after September 11, the fight against terrorism was ""the world""s fight."" Terrorists Hate US Al Qaeda Al Qaeda is expanding and plotting attacks against the West Hubbard 6/9/2015 (Ben, Al Qaeda Tries a New Tactic to Keep Power: Sharing It, www.nytimes.com/2015/06/10/world/middleeast/qaeda-yemen-syria-houthis.html) BEIRUT, Lebanon "" After they routed the army in southern Yemen, fighters from Al Qaeda stormed into the city of Al Mukalla, seizing government buildings, releasing jihadists from prison and stealing millions of dollars from the central bank. Then they surprised everyone. Instead of raising their flags and imposing Islamic law, they passed control to a civilian council and gave it a budget to pay salaries, import fuel and hire teams to clean up garbage. The fighters receded into the background, maintaining only a single police station to arbitrate disputes. Al Qaeda""s takeover of Yemen""s fifth-largest city in April was the most direct indication yet that the group""s most potent regional affiliates are evolving after years of American drone strikes killing their leaders and changing to meet the challenge posed by the Islamic State""s competing and land-grabbing model of jihad. While the image of Al Qaeda has long been one of shadowy operatives plotting international attacks from remote hide-outs, its branches in Yemen and Syria are now increasingly making common cause with local groups on the battlefield. In doing so, they are distancing themselves from one of Osama bin Laden""s central precepts: That fighters should focus on the ""far enemy"" in the West and not get bogged down in local insurgencies. In recent weeks, the Qaeda affiliate in Yemen has allied with armed tribes to fight Iranian-backed Houthi rebels, putting that alliance on the same side of the country""s civil war as the United States and Saudi Arabia. In Syria, Qaeda-allied fighters are important members of a rebel coalition against President Bashar al-Assad that includes groups supported by the West. This strategy has clear benefits for a group that has long been near the top of the United States""s list of enemies by allowing it to build local support while providing some cover against the threat of foreign military action. But despite Al Qaeda""s increased involvement in local battles, American officials say the group remains committed to attacking the West, a goal that could be easier to plot from sanctuaries where it enjoys local support. Cooperating with others could also give Al Qaeda a long-term advantage in its competition with the extremists of the Islamic State, analysts said. Since its public break with Al Qaeda last year, the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, has stolen the jihadist limelight by seizing cities in Syria and Iraq and declaring a caliphate in the territory it controls. This has won it the allegiances of other militant cells from Libya to Afghanistan. The Islamic State has insisted that other groups join it or be considered enemies, a tactic that has alienated many in areas it controls. And its public celebration of violence, including the beheading of Western hostages, helped spur the formation of a United States-led military coalition that is bombing the group. Al Qaeda""s branches in Syria and Yemen have taken a different route, building ties with local groups and refraining from the strict application of Shariah, the legal code of Islam, when faced with local resistance, according to residents of areas where Al Qaeda holds sway. When Al Qaeda took over Al Mukalla in April, it seized government buildings and used trucks to cart off more than $120 million from the central bank, according to the bank""s director, Abdul-Qader Foulihan. That sum could not be independently verified. But it soon passed control to a civilian council, giving it a budget of more than $4 million to provide services, an arrangement that made sense to local officials seeking to serve their people during wartime. ""We are not Qaeda stooges,"" said Abdul-Hakeem bin Mahfood, the council""s secretary general, in a telephone interview. ""We formed the council to avoid the destruction of the city."" While the council pays salaries and distributes fuel, Al Qaeda maintains a police station to settle disputes, residents said. It has so far made no effort to ban smoking or regulate how women dress. Nor has it called itself Al Qaeda, instead using the name the Sons of Hadhramaut to emphasize its ties to the surrounding province. One self-described Qaeda member said that the choice of name was deliberate, recalling that after the group seized territory in southern Yemen in 2011, the country""s military had mobilized to push it out with support from the United States. ""We were in control for a year and six months, we applied God""s law, we created a small state and the whole world saw it, but they did not leave us alone,"" the man said in an interview with a Yemeni television station. ""So we came here with the name the Sons of Hadhramaut, but the people here know who we are."" American officials have long considered the terrorist group""s Yemeni branch, known as Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, the most dangerous to the West. It has sought to carry out attacks against the United States, and it retains sophisticated bomb-making expertise. Now, Yemen""s civil war has given the group an opportunity to expand, analysts said. Can""t deter Al-Qaeda Ignatieff ""4 (Michael Ignatieff, Canadian author, academic and former politician. has held senior academic posts at the universities of Cambridge, Oxford, Harvard and Toronto, 2004, Princeton University Press, ""the lesser Evil: Political Ethics in an Age of Terror"") The third type of terrorist who might prove undeterrable were they to acquire these weapons is Al Qaeda itself. Unlike terrorists who serve the liberation claims of a particular group of people, Al Qaeda does not depend for its support on a particular population who could be subjected to revenge or retribution following an attack. Thus the attackers on Afghan soil. Once Afghanistan had served its function as a base, it was dispensable as far as Al Qaeda was concerned. Since their goal is not the acquisition of power itself but the punishment of the United States and its strategic allies, they cannot be stopped by political negotiation, concession, or appeasement. Nor are they susceptible to the incentives that make some armed groups conform to the laws of war in order to achieve international recognition or legitimacy. This indifference to incentives and sanctions applies not merely to Al Qaeda but to any cult with charismatic psychopaths at its head. It is hard to see what political action a state could have taken to deter the Japanese cult group Aum Shinrikyo before it released toxic agents in the Tokyo subway system. 9 Unlike political groups seeking liberation or national territory, these cults cannot be engaged politically, and since they are closed and conspiratorial, they are difficult to infiltrate and neutralize. The logic of deterrence that once kept state violence in some kind of check has no traction with loners and the cult leaders of global terrorism. Since they promise their followers eternal life, they create a cadre of undeterrables. Standard rationality doesn""t apply to Al-Qaeda "" they cannot be deterred Ignatieff ""4 (Michael Ignatieff, Canadian author, academic and former politician. has held senior academic posts at the universities of Cambridge, Oxford, Harvard and Toronto, 2004, Princeton University Press, ""the lesser Evil: Political Ethics in an Age of Terror"") In the examples considered so far, it has become clear that where armed groups have a real prospect of obtaining recognition and statehood, they may be persuaded to abstain from terrorism. Where their success in this struggle depends on retaining the support of local populations, they may also conclude that restraint pays better than atrocity. But these incentives and restraining factors do not apply to all terrorist groups. No such factors discipline the conduct of Al Qaeda. They have no aspirations to statehood and therefore no incentive to play by any known rules. They do not serve a determinate population and are therefore unconstrained either by their supporters"" moral code or by their vulnerability to reprisal. They even appear indifferent to casualties inflicted on Muslim populations who live or work in proximity to their targets. This is what makes them so dangerous. This is also why they cannot be engaged politically and must instead be defeated militarily. Al Qaeda is therefore a distinctive kind of terrorism, no longer in the service of a people""s freedom or in the name of the overthrow of a given state. The apocalyptic nihilists who attacked the United States on September 11 did not leave behind justifications, noble or otherwise, for their actions. They directed their propaganda and their justifications not at a specific state denying a claim to self-determination, but at the United States as the hated imperial capital of a materialistic, secular, and alien civilization. The so-called martyrs defended their actions in the language of Islamic eschatology, not in the language of rights. 33 Moreover, their intentions were apocalyptic, not political: to humiliate the archenemy of Islam and secure martyrdom in the process. It is difficult to see, in principle, how acts unaccompanied by demands can be accommodated politically. If the goal of terrorism is neither territory nor freedom, if its purpose is to strike a blow that asserts the dignity of Muslim believers while inflicting horror and death upon their enemies, then it is difficult to envisage a political response of any kind. Such an attack cannot be met by politics but only by war. Generic Biological realism explains terrorism "" means it""s impossible to stop it Thayer and Hudson ""11 (Brad and Valerie, Thayer is a Professor of Political Science at Baylor, Hudson is the Professor of Political Science at Brigham Young. ""Sex and the Shaheed: Insights from the Life Sciences on Islamic Suicide Terrorism"" International Security, Vol 34 No 4. 2011) Yet, even if al-Qaida is diminished, Islamic fundamentalist suicide attacks will continue to be executed by al-Qaida-inspired groups, Palestinian terrorist groups such as Hamas and Hezbollah, and the Taliban because they are an effective asymmetric tactic against some of the world""s most hardened security forces. Islamic fundamentalist suicide terrorists have penetrated British, French, Israeli, and U.S. defenses, among others. Moreover, only suicide terrorists could have executed the September 11 attacks or penetrated the Israeli security corridor bordering the Palestinian Authority, because they alone could navigate the countless security obstacles and be capable of self-destructing at a precise location and time while causing the greatest damage. As Mustafa Alani puts it, ""It""s what we call a thinking, walking bomb. He watches the whole scene [and] chooses the best time and best location.""4 Suicide terrorism is the ultimate smart bomb, demonstrating unparalleled political commitment and personal resoluteness. Scholars have examined Islamic fundamentalist suicide terrorism primarily through the lens of international politics, economics, and cultural studies, and each offers important insights into the motivation and recruitment policies of groups that practice it. There is, however, another discipline that can make a useful contribution""the life sciences. We argue that the application of concepts and approaches from the life sciences yields new insights into (1) the causal context of Islamic fundamentalist suicide terrorism, (2) the motivation of suicide terrorists, and (3) policy approaches to subvert this form of terrorism. A consilient approach, incorporating ideas from the life sciences and the social sciences, can aid social scientists and policy analysts in addressing the problem of Islamic suicide terrorism.5 The life sciences can be a source of new analogies and examples that might help scholars and analysts to approach the problem in fresh ways and derive effective policies.6 Our argument is important for three reasons. First, understanding the motivations of Islamic fundamentalist terrorists is critical for creating policies to stop them, ideally before they become terrorists. Second, our approach helps to illuminate why few Islamic fundamentalist terrorists defect and how policies may be crafted to promote defections. Finally, it advances the goal of consilience""that is, using insights from human evolution and ecology, as well as from the social sciences, to create a more comprehensive and detailed understanding of human behavior. In essence, consilient approaches bridge the gap between the life sciences and the social sciences. For the advancement of knowledge concerning human behavior, there may be no more important task than removing the barriers between the life sciences and the social sciences, which we believe will revolutionize both fields of study.7 The evolutionary structure of terrorist organizations makes them impossible to deter Thayer and Hudson ""11 (Brad and Valerie, Thayer is a Professor of Political Science at Baylor, Hudson is the Professor of Political Science at Brigham Young. ""Sex and the Shaheed: Insights from the Life Sciences on Islamic Suicide Terrorism"" International Security, Vol 34 No 4. 2011) Alpha males try to resolve this inevitable tension through male bonding. By persuading non-alpha males that they are all ""family,"" alpha males may be able to dampen intragroup tensions. Evolutionary psychology also helps to explain why this strategy will be effective. Humans evolved in small-group dominance hierarchies""principally the family and extended family hunter groups. Accordingly, the human mind is well suited for comprehending and bonding with small groups of dozens or, at most, 100 or 150 people.24 To be sure, humans may bond with larger units (e.g., a country), but that requires an extensive effort by the state (e.g., years of nationalistic education). In mimicking the family bond, male-bonded groups often assume the task of educating young males, providing another family-like service. Young people often embrace indoctrination into a belief system through a religion or an educational system, or the combination of the two, such as in madrassas.25 Emulating the family also makes the male-bonded group more resilient""harder to penetrate and to destroy""similar to the family or the mafia and suggests they must be targeted in unique ways. The dynamics described above are found among all societies, not only those of the Islamic world. Alpha males will seek to co-opt non-alpha males into male-bonded societies in which violence is controlled by alphas and guided toward out-groups, not in-groups (and especially not targeted toward the alphas). In this study, however, we limit ourselves to examining factors that we argue contribute to Islamic fundamentalist suicide terrorism. Of course, even within the Islamic world, individuals will possess other motivations to conduct suicide attacks. For example, there is evidence that at least some Iraqi male teenagers have been forced to train as suicide bombers under fear of reprisals against their families. Terrorism""s engrained in Islamic societies "" it""s the only way for non-Alpha males to achieve status Thayer and Hudson ""11 (Brad and Valerie, Thayer is a Professor of Political Science at Baylor, Hudson is the Professor of Political Science at Brigham Young. ""Sex and the Shaheed: Insights from the Life Sciences on Islamic Suicide Terrorism"" International Security, Vol 34 No 4. 2011) Baldly put, polygyny means mates for some men and none for others. And who will not obtain mates? It will not be those with advantages, but rather those who lack them. Non-alpha males will be the reproductive losers, and this gives them great motivation to use force, the sole area in which they possibly hold a reproductively relevant advantage over alpha males. Alpha males and non-alpha males understand the ramifications of polygyny for their relations: polygyny will heighten in-group violence against alpha males by non-alpha males absent a mechanism that directs this violence to an out-group. From the perspective of alpha males, suicide terrorism offers some interesting possibilities. A non-alpha male in a polygynous society with high levels of gender differentiation wants to find a way to project power, preferably through violence. In this way, he hopes to obtain greater social status and thus greater reproductive success. An alpha male in the same society wants to find a way to channel that violence to out-groups without allowing the nonalpha male to achieve social status through violence, which ultimately could threaten the interests of the alpha males. Suicide terrorism, sanctioned and applauded by religious belief, represents an attractive strategy in this context. If alpha males can persuade non-alpha males that (1) their violence should be directed to out-groups, (2) that thereby these non-alpha males will greatly increase their social status and make their families proud, but (3) they will have to die and experience their reproductive success vicariously through their kin, or in the afterlife, then the threat of in-group violence can be decreased. For some non-alpha males, becoming a shaheed is the most effective response to the human evolutionary conundrum produced by male dominance hierarchies, high levels of gender differentiation, and the scarcity of females resulting from polygyny.40 In 2003 Robert Pape found that among Islamic suicide terrorists, 97 percent were single and 84 percent were male. If one excludes the Kurdistan Workers"" Party, which promotes gender equality, the gender ratio rises to 91 percent.41 These young men come predominantly from lower socio-economic strata of society than those involved in nonsuicide terrorism, despite the somewhat anomalous case of the September 11 attacks. Evolutionary psychology would predict that this subpopulation would be most susceptible to the lure of suicide terrorism. Islamic religious texts promise the shaheed seventy-two virgins in the afterlife. 42 Miller and Kanazawa note, ""It is the combination of polygyny and the promise of a large harem of virgins in heaven that motivate many young Muslim men to commit suicide bombings. Consistent with this explanation, all studies of suicide bombers indicate that they are significantly younger than not only the Muslim population in general but other (nonsuicidal) members of their own extreme political organizations like Hamas and Hezbollah. And nearly all suicide bombers are single.""43 Failed suicide bombers may not admit to this temptation as motivation for their action, perhaps considering it too vulgar or impious. Nevertheless, it can be a key draw for a male contemplating poor reproductive prospects in this life. In March 2004, Husam Abdu (also Abdo), a sixteen-year-old failed suicide bomber captured at an Israeli checkpoint in Gaza, explained to Israeli intelligence officials that his dwarfism made him the object of ridicule at school, and he had been tempted by the promise of sexual relations with virgins in paradise. 44 Another captured would-be suicide terrorist, a Moroccan man, aged twenty-six, suffered from facial disfigurement.45 A study of suicide bombers in Iraq conducted by the U.S. military found that they were almost always single males from eighteen to thirty, with a mean age of twenty-two and no children. 46 The study concluded that most are ""alienated young men from large families who are desperate to stand out from the crowd and make their mark.""47 Immigration DA (WIP) tag Levy 6-3 (Gabrielle, Capitol Hill analyst at US News, ""Signs of Life For Immigration Reform,"" June 3 2015, http://www.usnews.com...) With comprehensive immigration reform essentially dead on Capitol Hill for the foreseeable future, Republicans appear poised to advance a series of incremental measures to address the hot-button issue amid political pressure to tackle the broken system. W06; GOP lawmakers in recent weeks have proposed potential areas of compromise they hope can help the party handle the delicate balance between appeasing the demands of the base in beefing up border security while addressing the practical economic need for foreign labor.W06; The moves come amid almost no progress on immigration legislation since the then-Democratically controlled Senate passed a comprehensive reform bill in 2013 that never came up for a vote in the GOP-led House. The impasse led President Barack Obama to issue executive orders protecting some groups of immigrants living illegally in the U.S. from deportation "" infuriating Republicans in the process.W06; With the unilateral moves halted by a federal judge, congressional leadership has been content to sidestep the thorny issue after losing a faceoff in March in which they unsuccessfully tried to tie funding for the Department of Homeland Security to a rollback of the Obama actions. But the looming presidential race has increased the sense of urgency among some of the rank and file eager to see the party raise its standing among Hispanic voters.W06; ""If you""re a Republican [running for president], you at minimum want the immigration issue neutralized, and maybe gain votes where Mitt Romney was unable to get them"" in 2012, says Stuart Anderson, executive director of the nonpartisan, nonprofit National Foundation for American Policy.W06; While any of the the piecemeal proposals faces long odds to passage and even less chance of cooperation with the White House, one area of focus appears to be on guest worker programs that would increase the number and accessibility of visas for both high- and low-skilled workers. The reform already has bipartisan support.W06; ""When it comes to illegal immigration, what""s the No. 1 reason people come to this country illegally? The same reason our ancestors came here: to work,"" Sen. Ron Johnson, R-Wis., said Tuesday at a bipartisan event exploring pragmatic methods of reigniting the debate on reform. ""From my standpoint, if you really want to secure our border, let""s eliminate or drastically reduce the incentives for illegal immigration, starting with a guest worker program.""W06; Some studies have suggested that, instead of taking away jobs from Americans, those workers help spur economic growth. It""s a position immigration advocates hope to use to sell the issue to a broader constituency.W06; ""If you don""t have a restaurant worker working in the kitchen "" you""re not going to have good jobs, waiter jobs, management jobs in restaurants for Americans,"" says Alfonso Aguilar, director of the Latino Partnership program at the conservative American Principles in Action group and the former chief of the U.S. Office of Citizenship under President George W. Bush. ""So we need to connect with the middle class and show that immigration is good for the middle class.""W06; NOGALES, AZ - JANUARY 21: The U.S.-Mexico border fence on January 21, 2014 in Nogales, Arizona. (Photograph by Charles Ommanney/Reportage by Getty Images)W06; RELATEDW06; Tracing the 2016 Fault LinesW06; Aguilar""s organization has suggested setting up guest worker programs for low-skilled workers that would allow the number of visas to fluctuate based on the needs of businesses. The system, particularly suited to the needs of the agricultural industry, would allow workers to come into the U.S. for a few months of the year, then return to their home countries.W06; A more narrowly tailored bill from Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, has also gained some interest from advocates on both sides of the aisle. The measure, which has yet to move in committee, would increase the number of visas for high-skilled workers, particularly those in science, technology, engineering and mathematics, or STEM, fields, and make it easier for those workers to stay in the U.S.W06; ""Just like in business, I don't want the smart people working in my competitor's business, I want them working in mine,"" Johnson said. ""The same thing should be true for a national economy: If we use American resources to educate the brightest people from around the world ... we should provide every incentive for the brightest minds to be working here to grow our economy."""	PRO	53
53	Se03e76bf-A91624b7c	The Death Penalty Should be Abolished!	"Thanks to Pro for his opening argument. As outlined in Round 1, the burden of proof is shared. In order to negate the resolution, I simply have to show that there is adequate reason for the government to keep the death penalty as a criminal sentencing option. Argument 1: Justice First and foremost, the death penalty is necessary to uphold justice. It intuitively obvious to us that the most serious crimes deserve the most serious punishments, and the death penalty is *the* most serious punishment available, stripping a person of the very source of their existence as human beings. In many cases, anything less simply doesn't serve adequate justice. When one maliciously violates someone else's rights, he automatically forfeits those rights for himself, as he has failed to fulfill the most basic obligation that comes with possessing equal human rights: to respect others' rights just as he respects his own. Consider the following example: ""Christian and Newsom were abducted from an apartment complex parking lot. Over the course of the next several hours, the pair was beaten, raped, tortured and murdered. According to later court testimony by Knox County Acting Medical Examiner Dr. Darinka Mileusnic-Polchan, Newsom had been repeatedly sodomized with an object. His limbs were bound, he was gagged and blindfolded. At some point in the early morning hours of Jan. 7, 2007, Newsom was dragged outside to a set of nearby railroad tracks, where he was shot execution-style, in the back of his head, neck and back. His body was then set ablaze, Mileusnic-Polchan testified. The medical examiner said Christian's last few hours on earth were also horrific and unthinkable. The young woman, he said, was tortured for several hours and sustained injuries...She had been beaten about the head with an unknown object and raped. Afterward, bleach was poured over Christian's body and down her throat, in an apparent attempt to destroy DNA evidence. She was, an autopsy indicated, alive while the torture and degradations occurred. Christian was then hog-tied and covered with several bags before she was placed in a disposal bin, where she slowly suffocated to death, Mileusnic-Polchan testified."" [1] Can anyone honestly claim that the men who committed such atrocities deserve anything less than the most serious possible punishment that the government can feasibly administer? The death penalty must remain available as a sentencing option, or else the justice system risks being unable to fulfill its duties in the case of extreme crimes such as the one detailed above. This contention alone should be enough to negate the resolution. No monetary value can be placed on justice and human dignity. Argument 2: Deterrence Unfortunately, it is quite difficult to establish a firm connection between the enforcement of the death penalty and deterrence of crime, as there are many, many factors that play into an area's crime rate such as poverty rates, interracial relations, other demographic factors, state gun control laws, and the organization of the local police force. However, we *can* still establish two useful points, even given the limited available information. a. At the very least, the effect of the death penalty on deterrence is neutral. To assert that the death penalty increases crime rates is logically absurd, as it is not feasible that the threat of death would motivate someone to commit a crime. At most, one could argue that the majority of criminals don't take legal ramifications into consideration when committing crimes and dismiss the deterrence effect on that basis. But even given that defense, we must realize that ""most"" does not equate to ""all""... b. There *have* been clear-cut cases in which the absence of the death penalty was taken into consideration by murderers and allowed them to commit crimes with much less apprehension: ""Consider the tragic death of Rosa Velez, who happened to be home when a man named Luis Vera burglarized her apartment in Brooklyn. 'Yeah, I shot her,' Vera admitted. '...and I knew I wouldn't go to the chair,'"" [2]. So ultimately, given those two observations, it is safe to assume that the DP does probably result in increased deterrence of crime, even if that increase is minimal. Argument 3: Recidivism This is probably the most substantial utilitarian benefit of the death penalty-- one who has been sentenced to the death penalty will never be able to commit any crimes ever again (duh). On the other hand, those who are imprisoned often go back to committing crimes, with 76.6% of aall prisoners released from US state prisons from 2005-2010 being arrested again within 5 years [3]. In Great Britain, twelve murderers who were released from prison after exceptionally long sentences all committed murders again within the next decade [4]. Clearly, the rehabilitative ""benefits"" that come from imprisonment aren't very significant, and the complete lack of such repeated offenses that comes with the death penalty renders the DP to be the preferable form of punishment. My opponent may argue that life-long imprisonment also offers similar benefits regarding recidivism. However, this is false because what doesn't end up manifesting itself in the outside world ends up manifesting itself inside the prisons themselves, as evidenced by the fact that murder rates in prisons are roughly as high as murder rates in the average American town [5]. The fact is, that the death penalty's absolute prevention against recidivism is certainly a plus point for it in terms of practical value, and it even further demonstrates the DP's importance to the justice system, since anti-recidivism contributes to the justice system's secondary role of preventing future crime. ============= CONCLUSION ============= I have given several arguments showing that there is more than enough reason for the government to continue utilizing the death penalty as a criminal sentencing option. Not only is it a necessity in terms of upholding justice, but it also has great practical benefits such as its complete prevention of recidivism and limited deterrence of crime. The death penalty should most certainly *not* be abolished. The resolution is negated. __________________________________________________________________________ [1] http://m.huffpost.com... [2] http://www.localaccess.com... [3] http://www.bjs.gov... [4] http://www.dailymail.co.uk... [5] http://www.slate.com..."	CON	54
54	Sb2c5f871-A3363f9eb	Solitary Confinement Use Should be Reduced and Elimanted	"I just want to address something quickly, I do agree with your proposition of making the conditions more suitable, but I don""t think that we should completely rid of the system. Now, in your opening argument, you said, ""They have little to no human contact, little space, and little freedom. The cells are between 60 and 80 square feet, furnished with only a cot, toilet, sink, and a small slit for a window, allowing for little to no natural light. The door is steel with a small metal slot for food and for the guard to give orders and directions. There are often search cameras and automatic doors in the more modern prisons, furthering the lack of human contact that prisoners in solitary confinement have"" Yes, this is true, this splattered throughout the internet if you were to search solitary confinement, but you are describing these methods as rather inhumane. (Correct me if I""m wrong) These methods are considered punishments, these conditions are meant to punish the inmates. Which again, is the whole point of solitary confinement; to punish the inmates. So, these conditions you describe as wrong, are there for the soul purpose of punishing the inmates for their wrong doings. How is it right for a prisoner to go by without true punishment for committing a crime within the prison? Throughout your whole argument, you mention the fact solitary confinement causes many issue. No one can argue against that, so I won""t even begin to try, but I will say, FOLLOW THE LAW AND THAT WONT HAPPEN TO YOU. You don""t get thrown into solitary confinement for having a pack of cigarettes, you might get thrown in a few days, weeks, or months for having drugs. Those issues you mentioned only develop after being in solitary confinement for a long period of time. For the people that have to serve out their sentences in SC (Solitary Confinement), they have committed heinous acts of injustice against our society. The SHU is used for punishment, and if they don""t want to suffer the horrible consequences of SC, then they shouldn""t commit the crime. It is completely fair and just that any person who commits a crime so horrible that they are sentenced to SC should in fact have to live with the conditions of SC. So, how can one argue that living in those conditions are unfair and wrong? Yet a better question we should ask ourselves, is how is it fair to let a vicious criminal get so many privileges? Additional Sources: http://solitarywatch.com..."	CON	55
55	S564603a4-Ad6b60d84	The death penalty should exist.	"I will be making a follow up argument and hopefully correcting any misinformed or wrongfully written statements. I will also be removing the citation numbers on your passages when I cite your work, since we are using the same referencing method. (I want to remove confusion) ""The most popular punishment for states without the death penalty that want an intense penalty would be life in prison without any possibility of parole."" I agree it is, however, many criminals simply are not getting this time, prisons are becoming over populated because of bad laws like minor drug offenses being labelled with hefty time in prison, gang related crimes and theft [3] ""Also, the idea of executing people that refuse psychological help is immoral at its core and is currently illegal. The insane (or mentally ill) cannot be executed, for it is unconstitutional."" It is and I apologise for the way my description ended, it was not meant to be taken that way, after re-reading it I see how that perspective could be met; I meant as in, if a criminal that has murdered, raped or abused someone refuses psychological help and they are being released, (because of our TERRIBLE justice system) why shouldn't they be put up for the death penalty? I don't mean to swing the accusation stick around, but what do you think should happen to criminals that just don't get these hefty charges due to race, location or pay rate?[1] Morals / Ethics: I would suggest that ending someone's life peacefully is a better alternative to making them psychologically disabled and unable to cope in the real world if ever released after an extended period of time. I personally know two people that were in prison for only 3 years for assault, they are not the same. something in them is broken. They wake up screaming and run at the site of their name. 10+ years would destroy a person. However, giving them luxury does not fit the justice required. So we are in a period of displacement, do we... treat them well in an isolated environment even though it is only preventing them from doing crimes and not teaching them a lesson... it's not justice, do what is just and damage them entirely psychologically, do we end their life peacefully. Basically, are we preparing them for life in the real world, or are we enforcing and breaking them until they die? If they go back into society, damaging them is only going to lead them back to a lifestyle they were comfortable with. Overpopulation: There is currently a serious problem of overpopulation within the prisons, leading to a lack of safety for security and a risk of rioting, and possibly, a mass escape.[2] ""By saying that these prisoners are able to live a happy life with luxury is a very big exaggeration."" 'A prison officer who has worked at Cardiff for 15 years said last week that inmates were simply sitting in their cells watching snooker on television or playing computer games.' [4] 'The death penalty is not the only way to keep them from recommitting, and from the harms of the death penalty as I stated above, we simply cannot allow it.' Prison sentences and the death penalty does not deter crime rates[5]. The death penalty is a viable option for people who are at risk to other people, and security guards. I am not disputing that life in prison would sound better than the death penalty... if they couldn't find loop holes, but there are crafty lawyers out there.[6] I apologise if my argument seems over the place, it's very late and I am very tired. I will construct my stance more accurately in the next round. In summary so far: The death penalty appears to be a viable option, the price isn't the prisons fault, nor is it the expense of the poisons used, but the court cases that take place, regardless of being on death row or not. The court cases cost the government A LOT of money anyway. I have given evidence suggesting my claims were in deed accurate. prisons are becoming over populated, prisoners are either getting no punishment or complete punishment. There is no balance. This doesn't mean the death penalty is a viable option, however for prisoners getting released, being broken or being the same is not going to help rehabilitate society. The death penalty should be in place for people we can't have in society anymore. I have shown evidence of cases where people do use loop holes eventually. The death penalty is a useful tool. References: http://www.heraldnet.com... [1] http://www.abc.net.au... [2] http://www.criminaljusticedegreehub.com... [3] http://www.telegraph.co.uk... [4] http://www.theguardian.com...[5] http://www.telegraph.co.uk...["	PRO	56
56	Se03e76bf-A70aa6aba	The Death Penalty Should be Abolished!	"Thanks, 9space. It's been fun. I will now proceed to finish off what's left of your arguments ^_^ CA1: Justice Pro basically concedes this argument. He only provides a broken link which supposedly shows that LWOP convicts commit suicide. Even if this is true (which we have no basis for believing), it would not adequately address my rebuttal, because if death was really preferable to life in prison, the *vast majority* of people with long-term prison sentences would commit suicide, which even Pro doesn't claim his source shows. I have, indeed, demonstrated that death is the ultimate punishment. This contention *alone* wins me the debate-- if the purpose of the justice system is to serve justice, and the death penalty is necessary to serve justice, then the death penalty is necessary and cannot be abolished. The resolution is negated. CA2: Cost Pro totally ignores my initial and most crucial rebuttal to this argument: that no monetary value can be placed on justice. If someone deserves to die (which my opponent has conceded does happen) then they should die-- the cost of administering that necessary punishment is irrelevant. By failing to address this point, Pro has already lost this contention. As for his response to my secondary rebuttal regarding the savings obtained from plea bargaining, his only substantial point is that judges might abuse plea-bargaining to increase their 'guilty plea rates', but this is patently false because the death penalty IS legal as of now and plea-bargaining IS widely used, yet no such notable trend actually exists. Pro cannot claim that ""X policy would result in Y"" if X policy has already been enacted and does not result in Y at all... CA3: Innocents Pro's rebuttal here makes no sense and misses all the most damaging parts of my rebuttal. Not only does he fail to address my point about the hugely increased accuracy rate of forensic investigations, but he also neglects to actually provide examples of postmortem exonerations occurring in modern times to back up his assertion that the execution of innocents is an inevitable result of the DP. All he does is give an incoherent mess of a rebuttal (I literally have no idea what he is trying to say) to my less vital point regarding how it is more probable that there are probably some innocent people that have died in prison. CA4: Discrimination Pro attempts to argue that the irreversible nature of the death penalty makes cases of unfair racism-based sentences more damaging, since those who have been imprisoned can still make appeals. However, this actually serves as a plus point for the death penalty because the numerous appeals involved in any death penalty sentence greatly minimizes the chance of such racially biased judgments actually being administered. And anyways, one could argue that other punishments are similarly irreversible because if the court that passed the unfair sentence is racially biased, then it is highly unlikely that the sentence will change upon appeal. CA5: Deaths Conceded. CA6: Cheap Labor Once again, Pro neglects to address the main defeater of this argument: that justice should be served regardless of the potential benefits that could be reaped otherwise. But besides that, Pro largely misses the point of my ethics-centered rebuttal; the point is that taking advantage of a convict's lack of rights and virtually enslaving them for cheap labor goes far beyond what the state is empowered to do, which is simply to serve justice-- there is a significant difference between stripping someone of their rights in order to serve justice, and taking advantage of someone who has had their rights stripped for material gain. CA7: Majority Rule Pro drops his original contention about religion, shifting the focus to trying to show that the American public as a whole is against the death penalty. Firstly, I will note that information from an unaffiliated source such as Gallup Polls should be regarded more highly than information from an organization which specifically aims to collect anti-DP statistics such as the Death Penalty Information Center. Pro has done nothing to convince us that we should accept his statistics over mine, which clearly show American popular support *for* the death penalty. Secondly, even according to his own source, there is only a 6% difference between those who support LWOP and those who support the DP, which can hardly be considered grounds for rejecting the death penalty on its own-- it is more or less insignificant. CA8: Deterrence Pro's point about police chiefs ranking the Death Penalty last in terms of crime prevention is irrelevant. I never once argued that the death penalty is the best way of reducing crime, or even a highly effective way; in fact, I have readily admitted from the outset that the deterrence effect of the DP is minimal. But logic and evidence indicate that the effect *is* existent, and that observation does serve to bolster the practical benefits of keeping the DP legal. CA9: Recidivism Pro's offers two arguments. His first argument operates on the assumption that my justice argument holds up, claiming that since some people die in prison, being sent to prison is somehow the equivalent of the death penalty, in which case imprisonment is preferable due to its lesser costs. But there is a major flaw with the notion that imprisonment is the equivalent of the DP because of in-prison deaths-- sending all death-deserving criminals to prison does not even come close to ensuring that all of them will actually die! Thus, the central premise of this argument is completely false, rendering the whole of it to be invalid. Pro's second argument is also based on the fallacious idea of the DP and LWOP being equivalent, and should be rejected for the same reasons as the first. ============ CONCLUSION ============ The resolution is first and foremost negated on the basis that Pro has failed to refute my argument regarding the DP's necessity in properly serving justice-- the most serious crimes deserve the most serious punishments, and death is definitely the most serious punishment (both points were basically conceded by Pro). Furthermore, each and every one of Pro's arguments against the DP have been completely refuted, especially since the precedence-of-justice argument has gone untouched by Pro. Lastly, I have demonstrated that there are some practical benefits of the death penalty's implementation (besides the general sense of security people get from knowing their government will properly deal with the scum of society), neither of which Pro has been able to cast sufficient doubt upon. The resolution is negated."	CON	57
57	S328198b3-Abd57e174	The US should adopt a ban on all semiautomatic firearms	= Advocacy = Semi-automatic firearms, portable guns which reload immediately after firing, will be the focus of this debate. Guns that employ lever, bolt, pump, breech, or muzzle types of action are not semi-auto. Air guns are not included in the conventional use of “firearm”. I propose a ban on all semi-automatic firearms in the U.S. in which 1) their manufacturing is prohibited, 2) their import is prohibited, and 3) a buyback is implemented that would require owners to turn in their guns for their full value. For an example of such a buyback, see Australia’s [1]. The military and law enforcement would be exempt from this ban. Hunting and recreation would still be permitted, albeit all involved weapons would be single-action. My case is built around the premise that the quantity of firearms and tightness of gun regulations are determiners of gun-related fatalities. Because semi-automatic guns can fire one or two projectiles per second, and could be used to swiftly strike dozens people within just seconds, I deem a ban as patently preferable to their current under-regulated availability. (1) Reduction of homicides With more firearms available comes the greater ability to use them in crimes. In 2013, a study by Boston-based researches found that a 1 percent increase in gun ownership correlated with a 0.9 percent in firearm homicides at the state level [2]. The U.S. has a far higher gun ownership rate than any country in the world at 88 guns per 100 people [3], and also has the highest firearm homicide rate among developed nations [4]. An absence of guns means less deaths due to them; Denmark’s, for instance, has just a dozen guns per 100 people and a gun murder rate 18 times smaller than America’s [3,4]. A more armed populace also means means more policemen are at risk of being shot and killed on the job. It was found that states with the highest amounts of gun ownership had three times as many law enforcement homicides as did states with less guns [5]. Consequently, cops in these states may anticipate encountering guns more often and therefore are more likely to use deadly force on the civilians they meet. In 1996, the year of sweeping gun reform laws in Australia there were 311 homicides, 96 of which involved guns. In 2014, 238 homicides occured, 35 by guns. That’s a 72% drop in the likelihood of being a murder victim [6]. Japan, with its incredibly low gun ownership of 0.6 per 100 people [3], saw just 12 gun deaths in 2013 [7]. Laws work, and the trends are consistent. With my proposal in place, the gun crime rate would plunge, as we’ve seen many examples of. (2) Mass shootings If we define a mass shooting as incident in which four or more people are shot, the U.S. experiences one almost every day. In the last 1,870 days, there have been 1,624 [8]. Despite having 5% of the world’s population, we have 31% of its mass shootings [9]. Gun advocates allege that mass shootings are a mental health problem and have nothing to do with more lax gun laws. But Americans don’t appear have more mental health problems than other developed nations [10], and only a minority of mass shooters could be considered seriously mentally ill anyways [11]. That factor simply isn’t large enough to be considered a major cause of such tragedies. I’ve yet to be made aware of a mass shooting that was carried out by a single-action firearm. Extrapolating from Australia’s and Britain’s situations in which mass shootings were either near or completely eliminated following massive gun reforms, it isn’t implausible to assume that my proposal would also bring the total number of annual mass shootings from being in the hundreds to near zero. (3) Suicides The majority of firearm deaths (62%) are suicides [12]. When a firearm is used, the chances of success are greater [13], so a decrease in firearm suicides would also mean a decrease in the overall rate of success, since guns are an extremely lethal method. When comparing firearm suicides to other nations such as Canada, New Zealand, Finland, Australia, UK, and Japan, the U.S. once again tops the group at a rate of 7.2 per 100,000 people [14]. Finland is the second-highest at 5.8. Harvard research indicates a strong, positive relationship between gun prevalence and suicide rate. “The nine states that rank lowest in terms of gun prevalence are the very same nine that rank lowest for suicide rates. Similarly, the three states top-ranked for gun prevalence can be found among the four states ranking highest for suicide rates” [15]. While not every suicide involves a firearm, a large enough portion of them do to influence the overall rate [16]. Also, people with lesser access to firearms will probably be less incentivized to do it, which can influence the overall rate too. We can see this trend on a smaller scale too: In 2006, the Israel Defense Forces stopped letting troops take their guns home on the weekends. What followed was a 40% drop in firearm suicides [17]. While single-action and semi-automatic guns probably aren’t too different as far as lethality in suicide goes, banning the latter would significantly reduce the guns in circulation that could be used for such attempts, and therefore would save thousands of lives. Summary In 2010, a total of 31,076 Americans perished from gun-related homicides, suicides, and accidents [18]. Assuming semi-automatic guns constitute the vast majority of these fatalities, it’s reasonable to infer that roughly 30,000 lives could be saved annually from my proposal. Additionally, mass shootings would be rare if this policy was implemented. The impact of this would be astronomical. It would not only save lives, but would inhibit the emotional trauma that friends/relatives of victims would experience. In order for Con to negate, he needs to outweigh the impact of 30,000 saved lives, as well as hundreds of mass shootings being prevented. = Sources = 1. https://tinyurl.com... 2. https://tinyurl.com... 3. https://tinyurl.com... 4. https://tinyurl.com... 5. https://tinyurl.com... 6. https://tinyurl.com... 7. https://tinyurl.com... 8. https://tinyurl.com... 9. https://tinyurl.com... 10. https://tinyurl.com... 11. https://tinyurl.com... 12. https://tinyurl.com... 13. https://tinyurl.com... 14. https://tinyurl.com... 15. https://tinyurl.com... 16. https://tinyurl.com... 17. https://tinyurl.com... 18. https://tinyurl.com...	PRO	58
58	S6eefc0cc-Ab63f8cb4	The Death Penalty should be legal	"Pro, unfortunately, has been unable to log in to their account. Therefore, they have placed their argument in a Google Doc; the link is here (https://docs.google.com...). Please do not penalize Pro for the forfeit. I accept all of Pro's observations. But I do not accept Pro's structure. Pro is inserting a new structure, saying I must only rebut Pro's statements from Round 2. This is overly restrictive, and is not specified in the rules. Defending my contentions is a ""rebuttal,"" and, since the Round 1 set-up allows for rebuttals in this round, I can defend my case in this round. Now, onto the rebuttals. (1) The morality argument is especially vague. All Pro argues is that the death penalty honors human dignity. I'm not gaining anything relevant from this. So what? I don't gain any link here -- I'm not seeing why the death penalty should be put into practice. Why does the death penalty be put into practice if it honors dignity? Pro is extremely unclear here. I don't see how (a) honoring human dignity upholds morality, and (b) what is moral ought to be done by the government. Pro assumes a government is a moral actor. But governments are based on utilitarian calculations, not on calculations that serve only morality. The very basis of government is to ensure safety, liberty, and happiness. That's exactly what utilitarianism is. The U.S., which is the only part of the world relevant to my plan, frequently employs utilitarian calculations. The Supreme Court has frequently interpreted the Consitution as being utilitarian in nature. In Mathews v. Eldridge, the Supreme Court employed a utilitarian calculation todecide what procedural due process is afforded by the Constitution. Any additional laws that are meaningless in practice, despite morality, should not be enforced. (2) The ""money"" argument makes no sense. First, Pro says ""we have the death penalty for a reason . . . [w]e should kill these people because they killed people and did something . . . bad."" I don't see how this entails. It's a non-sequitur. The argument states, ""they killed people,"" and then concludes, ""we should kill the[m]."" I don't see how anyone who kills another person should be given capital punishment. There's no warrant given. Second, Pro argues from a standpoint of recidivism. Pro doesn't give me any statistics here. How many in-prison murders exist? There are examples, but these are very few. Life without parole and other criminal punishment will prevent this as well. Further, this is outweighed (impact calculus) by the lives lost as a result of terrorist attacks compromised by capital punishment acting as a barrier to extradition of terrorist suspects; this is also outweighed by the severe costs and psychological damage caused by the death penalty. Finally, Pro says something about money. ""They want money"" and ""they will kill others"" really has no link that Pro establishes. Everything Pro says here is a bare assertion. Everything under the lives saved by the death penalty is a bare assertion. In fact, the majority of evidence suggests that the death penalty has next to no deterrent effect. There is no evidence that the death penalty deters crime. Most researchers agree that the death penalty likely does not deter homicides. [1] States without the death penalty have had consistently lower murder rates. [2] (3) Now, onto psychological damage. Pro's response makes no sense. I'm not saying the *criminals* are stressed about the death penalty. I'm talking about the executioners. Pro has completely misinterpreted my argument. My argument was about psychological damage being caused to (1) executioners, (2) witnesses, and (3) children of the executed. Nowhere in my argument did I mention those that are executed. I'm talking about the people who perform executions -- executioners. This argument is completely dropped. (4) Next, costs. Pro argues we must have people safe, and that saving people outweighs costs. How does the death penalty make people safe? Pro is very unclear here. He concedes cost entirely, and seems to be arguing from a perspective of weighing it against deterrence. I concede that lives outweigh costs, but I've proven that there isn't a deterrent effect. These costs could be used for constructive, administrative purposes, instead of an ineffectual death penalty. (5) Fifth, extradition. Once more, Pro doesn't seem to understand this argument one bit. I quote Pro, ""This is the argument of Con saying that the death penalty will not work in some occasions."" This is a red herring. What does ""extradition"" have to do with ""the death penalty won't work?"" I have no clue how Pro gained this complete misinterpretation. I clearly stated that the death penalty is a barrier to extradition, and made the impact clear. Pro drops all of this. (6) Pro, once more, misrepresents my argument from customary international law. I didn't say the U.S. executed other citizens -- I said U.S. citizens were executed by other countries. The U.S. has always desired to protect its citizens, especially from non-violent crimes. In China and Singapore, United States citizens have been executed for *nonviolent* crimes; if the United States stops capital punishment, it adopts customary international law, and there will be no more executions of US citizens. Pro basically misrepresents all my arguments, dropping them, and has weak contentions. Therefore, vote Con. Sources: 1. http://nccadp.org... 2. http://www.deathpenaltyinfo.org..."	CON	59
59	S2671a90b-Aea1cf05f	The Death Penalty should be Abolished	I have some original points, but my rebuttal is my strong skill. “Cherry-picked articles” How is what I picked cherry picked? I had a right wing source, a relatively objective source and a left wing source all being used in my argument. Near the end of your argument, you're the one who cherry picked an article because it was an emotional left biased site about a rare example that they labeled as an epitome. “If in your opinion they are not tough enough then governments can pursue policies to make them tougher rather than bringing in the death penalty in order to satisfying the baying crowds of emotional citizens.” I want the government to enslave prisoners for their sentence, even if the sentence is shorter as a result of it so they can rebuild the houses after hurricane Maria and so they can make our phones instead of innocent Chinese children. I don’t support this for murderers because they might kill more prisoners while they are enslaved. “You made the strange claim that because somehow typically poorer criminals don't have nice lives they therefore won't resent being stripped of freedom.” They get 3 meals a day. They get to participate in the Ramen trade. Being a prisoner is not as bad as many think. “60% of male prisoners experience mental illness in the US.” Show me the cite because I searched through relevant reliable sources and I didn’t find that statistic. You can cite in the comments. “I'm not sure which lives you think you are going to be saving.” The lives that get saved from less murders because more people would be scared of the death sentence than life imprisonment, even if it is solitary confinement. Saving their lives also means upsetting less families. “If a criminal for a truly abhorrent crime is too dangerous then the Criminal Justice System must make sure they never get out and that they are kept in a secure unit in prison.” Many people consider solitary confinement cruel and unusual punishment and I don’t advocate it for any prisoner. Some prisoners I want killed, others enslaved for their sentence. “Innocent people are put to death and this is a serious problem which should make you reconsider DP.” I have told you multiple times, for every 1 innocent person that dies from DP, there are many more that get saved from the lack of murders due to less people willing to commit murder. “I suppose that withholding critical information isn't lying but it is certainly immoral and disingenuous. I think families would want to know.” If you knew someone got executed innocently, it would hurt you. The question is ignorant bliss or acknowledging pain and this is a different debate, and one where I’m not so sure of my position. I would want to know, but I wouldn’t know about other people. “Black people are 7 times more likely to be convicted wrongly of murder.” It’s due to them being poor, murders tending to happen in poor areas and black people being more likely to be in the wrong place at the wrong time. “Now, absolutely this is partly to do with poverty (which by the way is more evidence of historical and current racism)” No. Bill Gates said, “If you born poor, it’s not your mistake. If you die poor, it’s your mistake”. This means that Black people and other people can cease to be poor. It will be hard, and will take lots of work and dedication to things that are good, but it is entirely feasible. You gave me an example of an extremist, and it wasn't jurors, but a single person. Racism plays a small or non existent part affecting only a few cases. That person might have told the black convict the N word just to get the convict angry before his death; more pain. “Countries with lower homicide rates do not have DP. I have seen no convincing evidence of this. One thing is for sure, most European states do not have the death penalty and also have much lower crime and homicide rates than the US for example (since these countries have are more socio-economically similar, this is a fairer comparison to make).” I think that the reason why Europe has a much lower homicide rate than the US is because people in the US tend to be more aggressive than Europeans. After all, members of big countries tend to feel subcounsciously more powerful and this power can be abused. It’s why Brazil has a higher homicide rate than all other South American Countries except for Venezuela. Brazilians tend to feel more powerful than their neighbors simply because their country is bigger. “Your DRC example is more reasonable but I almost laughed when you brought it up as an example of a less brutal state.” I said the DRC has a lower homicide rate than SA. All other forms of violence have nothing to do with the DP. “Look, I don't deny some cases where criminals are truly evil to the end. But this policy is not about them. It's about all kinds of people who end up on death row.” They sometimes and maybe are often the same people. “While we may be able to kill some people who seem to actually deserve it the reality is that many others are deprived of their ability to make positive changes.” The 1st part of the quote, you support the DP. The 2nd part, you say that some other people can make positive changes to their society. I understand that they are sorry, but even if they are sorry, they still should provide their punishment. If someone is sorry for cutting class, that’s okay, and they should be, hopefully they don’t do it again, but they are still serving ISS. An eye for an eye is a proportional stand point. “I understand why people feel this way. If one of my family was murdered I would probably want to see the murderer dead in a ditch but that is not a rational standpoint.” Given that you pity murderers, pity is an emotion just like wrath is. An eye for an eye when carried out by the state is justice. Revenge is when it is vigilanticaly done. Murderers deserve to die. Why? Because they murdered to get there. Execution should be as painful as justified. Also, my stance is not based off of anger, but on logic. I want murderers killed by the formula D=PL^3. “Because in most cases they do show remorse and can change their ways.” Some do, some don’t. All commited the crime, irrespective of their remorse. And because execution achieves punishment, it does not present a “perpetual cycle of the normalisation of violence.” People don’t murder in retaliation of the DP. “If an abused wife shot dead her abusive husband and showed genuine guilt and sorrow for having to do that then” It depends. If it was in self defense, I wouldn’t care. If it was when she was safe, than she deserves to die. From a religious standpoint the bible supports an eye for an eye(https://www.gotquestions.org...). Jesus says to the turn the other cheek if someone hits you, but that if someone attacks YOU. If someone attacks SOMEONE ELSE, then it would be anarchic to turn the other cheek. “Since is cases where disabilities are severe, criminals are often not emotional able to appreciate the nature of crime but this is certainly not the case for all people with disabilities.” If they don’t understand that murder is wrong, then why should they object to an execution? “Furthermore, if citizens see that a state is willing to exercise violence, since that state is an authority often respected and followed by citizens, those citizens can then believe that violence is acceptable in the same way that kids who grow up in abusive households also often have a perverted notions of violence.” This varies from person to person. Some people react violent in society that won’t kill them and some people, some people enjoy jail. I know someone who’s name is Ilona Furey. She grew up with a dad who was a drunk. He was addicted to alcohol. Does she emulate her Dad? No. She knows what bad alcohol does and she will probably never drink alcohol. If one’s parent is abusive, then someone may see how bad that is and therefore would not want to emulate it in their life. What is a show execution? “You seem to have conceded that executions are absolutely horrible ordeals. I'm glad you believe this; so do I.” If they get executed publicly, then it would raise money without taxes to produce more through trials where less innocent people get executed. “This is further supportive of my proposal to abolish DP since it is cruel, painful and thus inhumane.” Most executions are lethal injections, which are designed to be painless. “True justice is a criminal turning to the victims and apologising to them for their actions.” True justice is punishment and reward. People should get rewarded for good things and punished for bad things. “Let's be rule utilitarianist here.” The definition of unitarianism is, “an action is right if it tends to promote happiness and wrong if it tends to produce the reverse of happiness—not just the happiness of the performer of the action but also that of everyone affected by it.” https://www.utilitarianism.com.... In here, the victim will tend to feel happier if the murderers are put to death. Our tax dollars should not go towards keeping murderers alive. Although the DP costs more, the cost can be offset by public executions where ticket prices instead of tax dollars can fund the executions and more through trials to not have as many innocent people die. https://www.theglobeandmail.com...... Here, you accuse me of cherry picking examples yet you cherry picked an example from a left biased source. Also, this is not mainstream amongst murder convicts.	CON	60
60	S2671a90b-A77715646	The Death Penalty should be Abolished	"I propose simply that the governments of countries should take measures to abolish the death penalty for all people and for all crimes. That means that instead, for especially hoeneous crimes they should pursue top gun alternatives such as genuine life improsenment (literally until they die). This is suitable because they will not be a threat to the public and because they will be deprived of most freedoms and live the rest of their lives in a tough and unpleasant way thus punishing them as well as giving a sense of justice to their victims. So, now on to why I believe we should do this after defining my policy statement. I will propose three simple and logical arguments for why the death rate penalty is bad and thus why it follows that we should pursue its abolition. Firstly, the death penalty is wrong because it allows for innocent people to be murdered by the state. No matter how strong the burden of proof is as claimed by opponents of my position, countless numbers of times innocent people are wrongly convicted of serious crime and in certain countries are then murdered by the state for those false crimes. Let's be clear - our criminal justice systems, like any institution, have flaws and thus make mistakes or are corrupted. Juries are mostly very good at rightly judging evidence but ultimately they, like even experienced judges, are human beings who are subject to bias and opinion and make mistakes. In the case of death penalty cases, mistakes are very serious because they can kill people and thus mistakes cannot be corrected and so much more pain and suffering can be endured by both the wrongly accused and their families and friends. In these cases it only creates more victims. Now, often our institutions have inherent flaws. A good example would be institutional racism. We know this exists for sure within the police force. As can be shown by many examples of biases and acts of violence upon black men in custody. Furthermore, considering African Americans make up almost 50% of the American prison population despite being only 13% of the population and that Black people are 7 times more likely to be convicted wrongly of murder than white people this suggests that racism is a major factor causing injustices in legal systems. As a result, these obvious biases do mean that people are wrongly convicted and murdered on the grounds of racism and other forms of bigotry. Therefore, considering that my claim is true, in order to prevent innocent life from being snatched by the state we must abolish the death penalty as I propose. Secondly, the act of state sponsored murder is wrong and thus the death penalty must be abolished. When a state kills somebody for committing a crime what does that actually achieve? It can be an emotional reassurance to some victims of crime but what use does that actually provide to society in general. Cannot victims feel a sense of justice when a criminal faces a life of punishment and deprivation? There is no evidence that killing even guilty people actually acts as a deterrent to further support my claim that it achieves nothing. Isn't it surely more useful when a murder for instance spends their life in prison with the possibility of realising the immortality of their crime and thus feeling remorse and real guilt and sorrow. Not only is the death penalty useless but it is cruel. Many victims of the death penalty take hours to die. Recently a case emerged where a murderer was executed and the third poison injected into him was the wrong one. When this was given (instead of potassium chloride) it took the victim a much longer and painful time to die. This is wrong because human suffering is universally wrong. As humans we should aspire to progress morally and thus we suffering for suffering's sake is contradictory to this principle therefore rendering it defunct and thus the execution of criminals immoral. Finally, the death penalty is immoral because not only does it now victimise the families of the convicted criminals but because it diminishes the morality of society. As a civilised society we believe generally that the killing of human life is wrong except in exceptional circumstances whereby someone is about to kill someone else for instance. We believe that a civilised society is one that is not barbaric and does not kill people when there is no actual measurable use of killing them. Furthermore, human life is in sacred and special and killing is cruel mainly because it extinguishes that individual's ability to contribute to society after they have been reformed in prison. Many prisoners convicted of crimes such as murder in countries where there is no death penalty often show huge remorse and end up changing their lives, becoming reformed people and thus setting about to lead a moral life. This is not possible under the death penalty. People's contribution to the universe is destroyed by a society which deems itself to oppose the removal of life unless it is essential to the betterment of that society. And, appeasing the fiery emotions of traumatised victims is not essential to the betterment of society. For these reasons, the death penalty is both useless, actively cruel, victimising and limiting of the potential for positive contribution to our society. My final argument is that the death penalty is wrong because it brutalises us as human beings. Capital punishment provides a tangible and yet unacceptable link between justice served by the law and violence. Let's be clear. Violence is wrong in all cases. Even when we do justify violence it is when we are trying to stop more violence and so it's not a contradiction since my claim is that we should pursue the path of least violence and since the death penalty is not a deterrent then it, by my premise is immoral. Moreover, it perverts the notion of justice served by the law and ultimately by our societal notion of universal morality. Statistics show that the death penalty leads to a brutalisation of society and an increase in murder rate. In the USA, more murders take place in states where capital punishment is allowed. In 2010, the murder rate in states where the death penalty has been abolished was 4.01 per cent per 100,000 people. In states where the death penalty is used, the figure was 5.00 per cent. These calculations are based on figures from the FBI. The gap between death penalty states and non-death penalty states rose considerably from 4 per cent difference in 1990 to 25 per cent in 2010. Source: FBI Uniform Crime Report, from Death Penalty Information Center Disturbed individuals are often angered or believe that violence is more acceptable since the most fundamental form of authority (the state) leads by example in murdering criminals and thus these people are more likely to commit murder. It is also linked to increased number of police officers murdered. For the reason that the death penalty brutalises and lowers our societal goals of moral progression, we should abolish the death penalty. In conclusion, the death penalty represents everything that really is immoral. It murders innocent people, it unnecessarily deletes lives in often horrendously painful ways and worst of all, it underpins a notion of acceptable brutality which, as has been shown, perverts our society and corrupts our justice system. Before Keith Tharpe was sentenced to death one juror called him ""a nig**r"". This injustice is symbolised, embodied and perpetuated by the status quo. So, let us be brave, exercise deep and bold moral courage and say firmly that even the worst people should never be murdered by a society to which they pose no threat. I urge voters to support the Abolition of this brutal and barbaric system of state-sponsored cruelty and degradation."	PRO	61
61	Sfe78c1c3-A7227db1b	Dueling should be legalized	"Good stuff. I'm pleased to be engaged with a cogent opponent. I look forward to the second rebuttal phase, as well. == Dueling is a Right == You are nominally correct in that mutual consent would seem to override danger concerns. This might suffice as an argument if one is the type to take the warning labels off of cleaning supplies and let nature take its course. Those of us who rate life as equal to or higher a right than liberty take a different tack. The major flaw in the comparisons you draw with other activities is that in matters such as boxing or BDSM is that the law still very much frowns upon inflicting actual damage, especially permanent damage. As I established in my own argument, the state has a vested interest in its participants not dying. If for no other reason than that externalities abound, voluntarily taking yourself out of circulation, so to speak, is disallowed. A severe injury imposes externalities in that your contractual obligations to your job and your family are violated, and society is harmed marginally by your visit to the hospital and your recovery thereafter, consuming medical supplies, medical staff, and other resources that might otherwise have been used or held in reserve for the unfortunate victims of accidents or crime, with the attendant price increases that put upward pressure on insurance. Drawing analogues to other 'dangerous activities' does not help your case. All the activities you listed -- boxing, skydiving, scuba, automobiles -- are regulated to hell and back so as to minimize the chances that you can hurt yourself. Skydiving, for one, seems like a good analogue for dueling until you realize that the fatality rate is at 0.005 deaths per 1,000 jumps. All of the leisure activities especially carry the illusion of risk, but their regulating bodies are so stringent that one is literally more at risk on the highway. Dueling with deadly weapons, meanwhile, seems destined to an injury rate of 50% at minimum. Though I doubt research exists, I can only imagine the fatality rate would be unconscionably high. There's also a thing called the 'right to life', which is innate to all sapient life. I will be the first to admit that waiving your own right to life should be allowed by the law, but some minimum standard of justification should be present. The law might see prolonged, unremittingly poor quality of life might be an excellent reason. ""Because he pissed me off,"" really would not. It meets no test of a rational basis. == Increase Public Safety / Medical Response == These both boil down to the same concept, to whit: There would be a net reduction in risk from violent exchanges. You have yet to establish this. Since there's likely to be no research on the subject, I must instead resort to applied game theory. To make any serious impact on these numbers, duels would need to displace more unregulated clashes than new duels crop up where there would not have been violence in the first place. I find this hard to believe for one big reason: Exactly who do you think is going to be your 'customer base', so to speak, for dueling? The people most likely to engage in deadly armed conflict in our society are criminals. This is not tautological; law-abiding citizens have a HOST of options for legal redress without resorting to violence. Criminals otherwise engaged in illegal enterprise do not have this luxury, for to expose oneself to the legal system is to invite scrutiny that they can ill afford; this makes violence and extortion one of the only forms of redress to which they have access. Making dueling illegal would have little to no impact on this violence, because it would STILL require engaging in the legal system, thus provoking the very exposure they are seeking to avoid. Furthermore, the criminals who are doing violence are not doing so to satisfy some honor code. This isn't the Wild West, pistols at dawn sort of underworld. It is a world of ambushes, drive-bys, and hostage-taking. When trying to survive the cutthroat environment of the drug trade or similar, the very LAST thing they are incentivized to want is a fair fight. Even amidst the tiny proportion of people who are STILL inclined to arrange such a strange thing as a fair fight between criminals, they hardly need legal permission to do so. I mean, you know, by definition. This leaves your dueling proposal catering to a very tiny demographic of law-abiding dilettantes, rednecks, meatheads, and sundry who would otherwise NOT be engaged in potentially-lethal violence. With little or no reduction in criminal violence, the conclusion seems inevitable: Public safety would actually fall, especially if adoption spread due to the 'enforcement' of a cultural moral system of honor. == Dueling Promotes Honor and Justice == This is the weakest and also the most insidious point you've made, in my view. First off, if the legal system offers no redress, one must wonder if the offense is severe enough to warrant the risk of death. While there are flaws in our system, including that large companies can abuse individuals with near-impunity, I think most would agree that we are TOO litigious as a society. Of the few matters which you cited that don't 'rise to the level of' litigation-worthy, none seem to rise above the level of 'hurt feelings'. In no society that takes life seriously should those offenses warrant blood-sport. What's more, there is no innate incentive for someone to accept such a duel in redress. What rational reason would a con-man, or a spiteful coworker, or an inveterate gossip have for agreeing to personal combat over something they did? What possible benefit would there be? The answer to that is where it gets scary. The only rational reason there COULD be is if societal pressure and a widespread cultural norm of honor made turning down a legit-seeming duel so scandalous and scorn-worthy that the challenged feels compelled to accept. This is one of the very textbooks definitions of 'undue influence' which the state is interested in preventing. Indeed, such a society would be terrifying to live in. The only point of a code of honor is to prescribe a course of actions, ironclad, counter to that which one would otherwise take as a rational, self-interested individual. To live by that code of honor -- whether self-imposed or enforced by the scorn of peers -- is to be forever at risk for being 'forced' to take an action you would otherwise not. Consider the difference: Horatio rode to save the maiden from the dragon because he feared for her life. Horatio rode to save the maiden from the dragon because he thought he probably should. Note the terror and reluctance Hamilton faced on the eve of his duel with Burr; he feared leaving his family behind, his creditors cursing his name, his political achievements left unfinished. He was TRAPPED, though, by his code of honor. He intended to throw the match, to avoid killing, but he felt he had no choice but to risk his life on the altar of honor. And, indeed, he paid for it with his life. That is far too steep a price to pay for an ephemeral sense of self-worth, the relief of peer pressure, and the schadenfruede of seeing a nominal enemy bleeding at your feet. As a society, why would we willingly, knowingly choose to plunge ourselves once more into such a medieval mindset? (1) http://www.uspa.org..."	CON	62
62	Sb2c5f871-Aac2ca462	Solitary Confinement Use Should be Reduced and Elimanted	"My proposal is that there should be no reduction to the time sentenced, however I believe that the conditions could certainly be improved to reduce the amount of health risks. Beyond your whole argument, you used one major point, which I had said previously was completely true and that there was no way to argue against the fact that SC causes those health issues. Your main point was time in SC causes major health issues, and yes, all of it true. SC can take a toll on an inmate""s mental health, which again has been proven upon countless times. We must think of what causes these mental symptoms to occur. The only obvious answer is the conditions by which these inmates"" live in and also what there regulations are. If we could change just a few regulations on the subject of SC, the amount of mentally ill inmates would decline dramatically. Regulations such as human contact, time spent in per day, and maybe even more personal items. They could be offered more human contact daily, possibly lessen the amount of hours from 23 to 16 a day, and have more personal items in SC. I don""t propose that we cut down their sentences in SC, but make changes to way SC is done. Concluding Statement: My opponent has made the inmates who are in solitary confinement sound like victims. We must remember that these men, women, and yes, children too, are in there for a reason. For the ones who are serving 16 to 30, or even their whole prison sentence in SC, we must keep in mind that they clearly have committed a heinous crime. So we mustn""t think of them as victims, but rather consider them as hardcore criminals. Hardcore criminal who deserve to serve their time in the harshest ways possible. By harshest ways possible, I absolutely in no way mean that they should serve their time in the current conditions and regulations that are in place for SC as of right now. To not let them be completely restricted of their freedoms, but to have a considerable amount of freedoms, which can be done my reforms. Which in fact, in some states, they are already being put in place. To conclude, we have to be clear on the idea of prison and SC. Prison is meant to restrict ones freedoms because of a crime they have committed, also so is SC as well. We all know that criminals don""t deserve the same freedoms as us, instead they need to pay the price of their crime. Solitary Confinement, after reformations, will no doubt, make inmates serve their true time. Additional Sources: http://www.pbs.org... http://www.aclumaine.org... -I would like to thank my opponent for introducing and executing a very well, organized argument. Pleasure debating with you."	CON	63
63	Sb2c5f871-A6b49ff10	Solitary Confinement Use Should be Reduced and Elimanted	Solitary confinement has no uses that override its negative effects on the prisoner and on society in general. It causes mental and physical stress that is expressed through mental illness and increased violence. It increases recidivism according to what data we have, though I will admit that there is only a small amount of research on what effect segregation has on recidivism either positive or negative. The negative effects are enormous while the positives are barely palpable. Because of this I propose that we slowly reduce the use of solitary confinement while also improving the conditions in order to lessen its negative effects while maintaining its postive uses. (The positive uses being safety of the prisoner in question and safety of other prisoners.) The conditions that prisoners face in solitary confinement are among some of the worse conditions that can be found in the American penal system. They have little to no human contact, little space, and little freedom. The cells are between 60 and 80 square feet, furnished with only a cot, toilet, sink, and a small slit for a window, allowing for little to no natural light. The door is steel with a small metal slot for food and for the guard to give orders and directions. There are often search cameras and automatic doors in the more modern prisons, furthering the lack of human contact that prisoners in solitary confinement have. The bright, fluorescent lights are never turned off; disrupting the prisoner’s circadian rhythm and further adding to the extreme stress the prisoner endures (Cloud, 2015). The cells are physically unhealthy and psychologically traumatizing. Prisoners in solitary confinement also receive psychiatric treatment infrequently, despite the psychological stresses that isolation can impose on them (Gordon, 2014). Prisoners in solitary confinement spend between 22-24 hours a day in their cell with little to no human contact or interaction (Gordon, 2014). Often times they do not have any reading material, television or radio access, property, or visitation rights. This lack of sensory material makes the isolation even more severe (Gordon, 2014). Prisoners often remain in these conditions for years at a time. Solitary confinement introduces harsh conditions to prisoners and, if endured long enough, can cause mental illness of varying seriousness. Many studies show that isolation in such an environment for any period longer than ten days can cause psychological stress that can lead to hypertension, uncontrollable anger, hallucinations, emotional breakdowns, chronic depression, and suicidal thoughts and behaviors (Gordon, 2014). The full extent of psychological stress and trauma that inmates face can be seen by the level of self-harm and suicide that is present in solitary confinement. Self-harm and suicide is prevalent all throughout the penal system, however it is much more prevalent in those that endure the extreme isolation of solitary confinement. “Inmates punished by solitary confinement were approximately 6.9 times as likely to commit acts of self-harm after we controlled for the length of jail stay, SMI, age, and race/ethnicity,” (Kaba, 2014). This also held true for potentially fatal self-harm, albeit with a slightly lower rate of 6.3 times (Kaba, 2014). It can be argued that these acts are simply manipulative in nature, in an attempt to be removed from solitary confinement. However, it is important to keep in mind that solitary confinement must have a very large impact on inmates if they resort to self-harm in order to leave. If inmates are harming themselves or attempting suicide, it speaks volumes to the state of their mental health in an isolated environment like solitary confinement. Taking into consideration the level of psychological harm that segregation can cause to individuals i believe it is clear that it is more harmful to the individual than helpful. Let us next take into consideration what harm this can cause to society. Many inmates are released directly from solitary confinement into society, (lost the source, however I can find it and add it later if you need it). One study shows that 24.2 percent of prisoners in solitary confinement will reoffend within three years compared to the 20.5 percent for the general prison population (Gordon, 2014). Another study suggests that those that are sent straight back into the community from solitary confinement are more likely to reoffend than those that participated in step-down program before being released (Gordon, 2014). This can be explained by the lack of access to programs, treatments, and educational experiences that have been shown to reduce risk of recidivism. The lack of social bonds one has while incarcerated in solitary confinement may also cause stress that will lead to depression and rage. All of these things together can make it difficult to readjust to society, or even the general prison population, and cause these inmates to reoffend. These are my main points as of this moment as to why solitary confinement is more harmful then helpful for our society and for the individuals that must suffer through it. This is why I propose to reduce and eventually eliminate its use as it is today. Sources: Cloud, D., Drucker, E., Browne, A., & Parsons, J. (n.d.). Public Health and Solitary Confinement in the United States. Am J Public Health American Journal of Public Health, 18-26. Gordon, S. (n.d.). Solitary Confinement, Public Safety, and Recidivism. University of Michigan Journal of Law Reform, 47(2), 495-528. Kaba, F., Lewis, A., Glowa-Kollisch, S., Hadler, J., Lee, D., Alper, H., . . . Venters, H. (n.d.). Solitary Confinement and Risk of Self-Harm Among Jail Inmates. Am J Public Health American Journal of Public Health, 442-447.	PRO	64
64	S2671a90b-A616db8fb	The Death Penalty should be Abolished	"I propose simply that the governments of countries should take measures to keep the death penalty for some crimes. This is not limited to murder but that's potentially for a different round. A life sentence is not the correct punishment to pursue because prision is not even a bad place for prisoners, so it's not much of a punishment. Many people commit crimes just because they enjoy prisons so much. Why wouldn’t they? Some perks of being a prisoner: -They get 3 meals a day. If they don't like the food, then they often make their own. This applies to poor people who would otherwise not necessarily have enough to eat. -This kindof goes with the one above. They get to participate in the Ramen trade(https://www.npr.org......) -Clean clothes -Getting paid for stuff http://dailycaller.com......(A right wing source) https://www.thrillist.com......(I don't know, but an extra site) https://www.huffingtonpost.com......(A left wing source) So, now on to why I believe we should keep the Death penalty (DP) this after defining my policy statement. I will propose three simple and logical rebuttals for why the death rate penalty is good and thus why it follows that we should pursue it's continuance. Firstly, the death penalty is right because it allows for very few innocent people to be murdered by the state. Only 4.1% of convicts for murder are actually innocent. (This is religious) If your executed innocent, since atheist criminals tend to convert out of fear of hell, once they get executed innocently, they would go to heaven. Even if your secular, the innocent inmates would probably be thinking hopeful thoughts at the deathbed. I say this as an atheist, so it's not like I have religious bias. http://www.newsweek.com......... No matter how strong the burden of proof is as claimed by opponents of my position, it is very rare when innocent people are wrongly convicted of serious crime and in certain countries are then murdered by the state for those false crimes. Let's be clear - our criminal justice systems improve every year. If pain and suffering can be endured by both the wrongly accused and their families and friends, then simply don't tell them and they will think that their accused relative was guilty. ""Furthermore, considering African Americans make up almost 50% of the American prison population despite being only 13% of the population and that Black people are 7 times more likely to be convicted wrongly of murder than white people this suggests that racism is a major factor causing injustices in legal systems."" The reason why Black people tend to be more likely to end up in prison than Caucasians is the same reason why males are more likely to end up in the prison system than females. It is because they are more likely to commit crime and when they do, it tends to be more intense on average. When a state kills somebody for committing a crime, it provides justice for the murderer and prevents him from killing other prisoners, since lifetime imprisonment would make him angry enough to potentially kill someone since he has had practice. Victims feel more of a sense of justice when a criminal faces DP, after all, getting killed is more painful than being in prison for life. To live anyhow is better than to not live at all(with exceptions). There is evidence that killing even guilty people actually acts as a deterrent to further support my claim that it achieves nothing. Japan has the death penalty, South Africa does not and Japan has a far lower homicide rate. There is no guarantee that the murderer would feel sorrow. Dylan Roof wouldn't have felt sorrow when he killed 9 people in a Baptist Church. He hated the people in there. Many murderers want to be known and famous, even if it's famous in a bad way. The death penalty should be justifyingly cruel, and murderers should die by the formula D=PL^3. D means Death method, P means amount of pain caused, and L is the number of lives killed. I would like to point some quotes from my opponent “This is wrong because human suffering is universally wrong.” “This is suitable because they will not be a threat to the public and because they will be deprived of most freedoms and live the rest of their lives in a tough and unpleasant way” Which is it? Do you want criminals to suffer or not? The convict's family won’t be victimized by the execution. Instead they would support it. Adam Lanza’s Dad wished he was never born. Parents tend to hate the murderer as much as society. “human life is in sacred” Apply this to a fetus, and you will be more ideologically consistent. “it extinguishes that individual's ability to contribute to society after they have been reformed in prison.” You want life imprisonment. This makes it impossible for the to do this. Not all murderers become reformed and even if they have a change of heart, they still must endure their punishment. “And, appeasing the fiery emotions of traumatised victims is not essential to the betterment of society.” Really, the pro DP people are the emotional ones. You guys are the ones who cry out for the murderers that you call human beings. That sounds pretty emotional to me. Also, keep in mind that they go through a rational jury and judge before getting executed. These people don’t base their punishments off of feelings. They ase it off of logic and ethics. “Violence is wrong in all cases.” You once again contradicted yourself because above you said it was okay in self defense, but not execution. Violence is sometimes wrong, sometimes right. Moreover, it perverts the notion of justice served by the law and ultimately by our societal notion of universal morality. The reason why non DP states tend to have a lower homicide rate is because they tend to be richer due to urbanization and therefore less likely to have it’s individuals commit crime. “Disturbed individuals are often angered or believe that violence is more acceptable since the most fundamental form of authority (the state) leads by example in murdering criminals and thus these people are more likely to commit murder.” That is not true. The reason why they murder iss because they are sick in the head, because society treated them badly, because they want to make a murderer list, or a combination of the previous reasons. “It is also linked to increased number of police officers murdered.” I will need a citation. In conclusion, the death penalty represents everything that really is justice. It kills only a few innocent people, all on accident, it necessarily deletes lives in rarely horrendously painful ways and worst of all, it does not underpins a notion of acceptable brutality since it punishes murderers justifyingly harshly. “Before Keith Tharpe was sentenced to death one juror called him ""a nig**r"".” This is an extreme situation that should be cited. This is not mainstream."	CON	65
65	Se03e76bf-Aa209a640	The Death Penalty Should be Abolished!	"Thanks, 9space. Aplogies in advance for any S&G/formatting errors; I had only my phone to write this and did not have time to revise. Since my case overlaps quite a bit with Pro's case, I will be using this round for both rebuttals and counter-rebuttals to avoid redundancy. A1: Justice Pro agrees that the people who commit the most serious crimes deserve the most serious punishments; what we disagree on is what that 'most serious punishment' is. I argued that death is the most serious because it strips a person of the source of their existence-- without life, one cannot experience pleasure, pain, or anything, really. There is no more chance for happiness, no more chance for fulfillment, no more chance for a future; for that, it is the ultimate punishment. There is a reason why the fear of death is and has always been universal across the human race [1]. Pro's alternative, while harsh, simply does not have the same effect as the death penalty does. A person can still find happiness and fulfillment in some form even in jail, especially with the ever-rising standard of living in prisons [2]. If death was really preferable to life in prison, then logically, the vast majority of criminals sentenced to LWOP would commit suicide, yet no where do we see this trend. A2: Costs First of all, cost shouldn't play a role in this debate at all. Justice is about what a person deserves for their crimes; we can't decide what punishment to use by seeing which one is the most cost-effective-- we can only decide based on what they actually deserve, and as I showed in A1, that would be the death penalty. Furthermore, keeping the death penalty legal has its own economic benefits, coming in the form of plea bargaining. We can use the threat of the death penalty to obtain a guilty plea from the criminal early on (in exchange for taking the death penalty off the list of potential sentences), thus completely dodging the costs of the trial process and balancing out the costs of the DP appeals process to the point that there is no substantial difference between the costs of the DP and the costs of LWOP [3]. A3: Innocents Pro argues that the irreversible nature of the death penalty renders the execution of innocents to be a grave injustice. Firstly, such occurrences are now virtually non-existent because modern developments in forensic science such as the advent of DNA testing have allowed for the guilty to be identified as such with greater accuracy than ever before [4]. In fact, Pro's statistics simply support my point by showing that we are capable of distinguishing the innocent from the guilty before it is too late. Pro's claim that innocent executions probably still occur without our noticing is complete speculation; he must provide definitive evidence of such a thing happening relatively recently (e.g. postmortem exonerations). The huge amount of focus given to ensuring the guilt of death row prisoners actually underscores a weakness of imprisonment: without the pressure of imminent death, there is not nearly as much effort put into the the post-conviction exoneration of LWOP subjects, and combined with the overall lower standard of required evidence necessary to imprison someone, there is significantly higher likelihood of there being innocent people spending their lives in prison than there is of an innocent person being executed under the modern justice system. A4: Discrimination Pro's argument, here, is non-unique; it applies to ALL forms of justice because racial discrimination is not just a problem with the death penalty-- it is an underlying problem of society which needs to be fixed independently. Once the actual problem of racial discrimination is solved, the trends that Pro has pointed out will cease to exist. Until then, we will see such trends of racism in all forms of punishment, including normal imprisonment [5]. A5: Death This argument is absurd. One of the death penalty's plus points is that it gets rid of people who the rest of humanity would be better off without. If someone deserves to die, then they should die; the observation that lots of people die is wholly irrelevant. What does Pro even mean by ""too many""? He has presented no objective standard by which we can evaluate how much death is too much. A6: Cheap Labor Again, I must assert that justice must take precedence; if someone deserves death, then they should die, regardless of how much material gain we could reap otherwise. But besides that, this form of punishment is entirely unfeasible for the state to administer. It is one thing to seize someone's rights as a matter of justice (i.e. death penalty or imprisonment), but it is something else to take advantage of those people who have had their rights seized to have them do forced labor, reducing them to the status of slaves and stripping them of all dignity. The state simply doesn't have the right to do such a thing; it can only do to its citizens that which justice requires, and extracting cheap labor from them does not fall under that category. A7: Religion Pro's argument is based in a violation of one of America's central political principles: the separation of the church and state. If we were to buy religious arguments for governmental policies, our law books would be completely riddled with contradictions from trying to incorporate the doctrines of all major religious and non-religious groups. We are clearly better off rejecting any such arguments, including this one. Pro ends off by claiming that the majority of people are openly against the death penalty, yet he provides no support for this. In reality, support for the death penalty has always been rather high in the United States [6]. A8: Deterrence Pro's response is entirely insufficient; I acknowledged that in general, the deterrent effect of the death penalty is minimal, but still existent due to the existence of several specific instances in which the death penalty obviously has deterred crime. As I stated before, the statistical correlations cited by Pro regarding deterrence rates are relatively meaningless because of all the other, more important factors that play into crime rates. A9: Recidivism Pro gives virtually no response to this argument. He claims that LWOP offers equal recidivism prevention, a notion which is refuted by my pre-empt regarding in-prison homicide, and then addresses my pre-empt by claiming that prisoner deaths are a good thing. But this contradicts the stance Pro took up in A1-- that death is an ""easy way out"" for convicts and cheats society of proper justice being served. Pro cannot continue along this line of argumentation without conceding A1 (and by extension, the entire debate). ____________________________________________________ All of Pro's arguments have been refuted. The resolution is negated. [1] http://phobias.about.com... [2] https://www.aclu.org... [3] http://www.sfu.ca... [4] http://america.aljazeera.com... [5] http://www.dailymail.co.uk... [6] http://www.gallup.com..."	CON	66
66	S1dc2d3b2-A19fa2553	The I. C. C. (International Criminal Court) should try American war criminals for war crimes.	I advocate for my previous arguments.	PRO	67
67	S7ad5a1f-Ab3bf7790	Death penalty should be allowed	I'll offer rebuttals to my opponent again: I will quote parts of their argument at times, which will be italicized, and then if the part I want to rebut is too lengthy, I'll just summarize it in bold. Now, I notice my opponent offered potential arguments that opponents of the death penalty would have in the first half of this round, and I see no need to rebut them, as they didn't really rebut them themselves. So, I will move onto the points that support the death penalty that my opponent offered. Death penalty costs the government less as opposed to life imprisonment without parole. This is a claim that needs evidence back it up. I claimed the exact opposite above, and offered a source. Here are two more sources that show the death penalty is actually more expensive than life in prison without parole[5][6] The absence of death penalty is synonymous to crime rate increase Again, this is something that needs facts to support it. While in the next sentence you do provide facts, it doesn't support the idea that without the death penalty, there would be less crime. It merely talked about the crime rate over all. It doesn't show, for example, that crime is low or high because of the death penalty. In fact, statistics seem to suggest the opposite. States that don't have the death penalty have fewer murders occur in them than states with the death penalty[7]. Now, I admit that this doesn't suggest that the reason for the murder rate being lower is because of the death penalty. Correlation doesn't equal causation. For example, there could be other reasons why the states without the death penalty had lower rates of murder. Perhaps it is actually the other way around: maybe they chose to have the death penalty removed because they had such a low murder rate and saw it as unnecessary. Or perhaps there is some other cause of the murders being lower. Who knows? Nonetheless, a logical conclusion that can be made from the evidence is that life in prison without parole might seem to be a worse punishment than death. I mean, life in prison might actually be a worse punishment. Who wants to spend the rest of their life in prison? You'd probably want to commit suicide if you were sentenced to that, so death would be a relief. Now, that is a logical conclusion, what you offered is not a logical conclusion because you offered no data that showed correlation between the death penalty and amount of crime. It is constitutional and does not violate the Eight Amendment which prohibits the federal government from imposing excessive bail, fines and cruel and unusual punishments, including torture. This appears to be a non sequitur. which is when the conclusion doesn't follow the premise. You can read about it here and determine for yourself if it was a non sequitur[8]. The reason this is a non-sequitur is because my opponent is using this as a reason for the death penalty, but it doesn't seem to support why the death penalty should be done. Just because something is legal, doesn't mean you should do it. Lying is also legal, but should you lie to your loved ones? Actually, thinking about it, this might be more of a circular reasoning. We're more or less saying whether the death penalty should be allowed(legal) and my opponent brout up the fact that it is legal as reason for why it should be legal. That's circular reasoning. Again, you can read about it here and determine for yourself if this is circular reasoning[9]. This might actually be considered both fallacies. Re: death penalty is justice because you're killing someone who killed I suppose I can't refute this one, but I believe the cons that I've outlined in my arguments so far: how there is a chance for an innocent person to be killed, how life in prison seems to deter crime better than the death penalty, and how the death penalty is more expensive to keep the life in prison outweigh this argument. What would you want the judge to say if you or a loved one got killed, or maybe your whole family except for you that no has to suffer from what happened? Please answer. You're asking the wrong person this lol. You're talking to someone who was sexually mollested as a child but protects the perpetrator and is good friends with the perpetrator now(weird I know, but I swear I don't have stockholm syndrome). I am a strong believer in forgiving people for what they've done and letting them go. To be honest, if I was president, I'd probably pardon most criminals out there. So, my answer should be obvious: I wouldn't want the judge to give them the death penalty if they killed all of my family. Rather, I'd require that they be given some sort of rehabilitation, perhaps therapy, and other techniques used on them to make them a productive member of society who would no longer have a desire to kill anyone. Sources: [5] https://www.forbes.com... [6] http://www.nbcrightnow.com... [7] http://www.deathpenaltyinfo.org... [8] https://en.wikipedia.org...(logic) [9] https://en.wikipedia.org...	CON	68
68	Se03e76bf-Af09fce55	The Death Penalty Should be Abolished!	"FINAL ROUND!!! 1. Justice My source here: http://www.hrw.org... that people do in fact suicide a load, as told from many many people's viewpoints. (Just jump to ""Suicide Thoughts and Attempts"" to get to the point) Cost: ""we can't decide what punishment to use by seeing which one is the most cost-effective..."" Actually we can...the economy is a very important role in our society. As for your source, have you even read it? It's trying to show how horrible plea-bargaining is; it's ""perverse"" and does not work out, as the paper even goes to say that plea bargaining ""entails a reduced sanction"", and mentions an excellent quote that points out the unfairness of plea-bargaining, which, when paraphrased, basically means ""Judges care about how much convicted ultimately plead guilty, as much as a batting average matters to a baseball player."" This suggests that nowadays, people are striving for better records so as to ""win re-election or earn promotion"", as the paper says. This shows how unfair the death penalty's forcing can be, if this really is the amazing torture-force-you-to-plead-guilty-card, then the judges will play it every single time. Again, with those innocent people...You can always rescue them within life sentence, but death penalty? Nope. Innocents Ah, here we go. My opponent tries talking about the weakness of imprisonment compared to imminent death and the effort put into those trials and cases. But why then, do they take so much darn longer? The death penalty trials might as well be life sentence for these guys! Discrimination: Without the death penalty, at least the innocent's family has time to sue or go for a re-trial. With death penalty, if they scramble and fail to find the evidence in that short time frame, BLAM. Innocent is dead forever forever dead. Death: You're right, I was absurd. I was only trying to throw you off with this argument. Cheap Labor: What do you mean? Once you say it's alright to take away their rights of happiness and further contentment by taking away their lives, the other second you say you cannot strip them of dignity and turn them into slaves. Either way you're stripping them of most/all rights, and the latter at least they can be productive to society. -.- Religion: My opponent is incorrect. More people support life without parole plus restitution. (Cheap labor is probably the best way to restitute, as I contended). From http://www.deathpenaltyinfo.org...... In fact, even police chief think the death penalty ineffective and dumb. (From:http://www.deathpenaltyinfo.org...) Deterence: As I stated before, why have the ineffective death penalty? Those other states without death penalty are actually living better. Yet another poll showing police thinking the death penalty very ineffective, from the same source mentioned above: See? Death Penalty simply ain't enough. Other things are much better and more effective, the death penalty does not really help to deter crime, even in the polices' eyes. Recidivism: This is a tough choice. Conceding this argument would give my arguments a big hit, yet argument number one is indeed my crucial core battery holding my arguments together. Let me phrase my rebuttal in a way that manages to hold BOTH ARGUMENTS UP. Okay, so I mentioned how my opponent made a straw-man argument in that he could not counter my prison-labor argument. As none of those escaping prisoners are from prison-labor, they do not apply to my counter-plan and do not help him case. I was surprised to see Uchi NOT rebut this argument or try to rebuild. Now, my opponent, my argument can go two ways. Voters, note this very very carefully. If the death penalty is really justified and you really win your argument about how it is the better punishment for prisoners, then you still lose because your own source suggests that they will die in prisons as much as people die in the average american town, which means that life sentence is not only as justified as death penalty, it is more moral because it takes a shorter time with its trials and costs less than the death penalty. Therefore, if you win the DP justified argument, life penalty will automatically be better. But what about the other way around? Yes, my opponent mentions how I contradict myself. Let us assume that in fact my opponent concedes the Death Penalty Justification argument, because if he wins that argument he only pushes forth life penalty, so he'll probably not want to win the DP justified argument. However, if death penalty really is ""the easy way out"", and life penalty also allows the ""easy way out"", which one do you want? Well, once again, life trials take shorter and cost less than the DP trials, as my sources suggest. Thus, although both are immoral (if we assume Death penalty isn't justified), Life penalty is still better because it's more efficient, and thus, in an ultitarianism perspective, more moral in comparison to the death penalty. You lose, UchihaMadara. VOTE ME."	PRO	69
69	S6702cc42-A246b265f	Abortion should be legal	"Ya, I was tired so I let more qualified people to argue for me =/ ""might as well resurrect the criminals because according to your claim execution is also a crime. "" Although this is off topic, Criminals caused harm intentionally to others, If someone killed someone, It would disgrace the person killed and devalue human life. Fetuses don't intentionally cause harm, Killing fetuses because they are a inconvenience would devalue human life, Has it states that Human Life can be let go if it causes irritation to another, Which is messed up. ""Abortion is for the mother's good"" If it brings happiness to a mother to bring death upon her own baby, Then there is something wrong. I understand that the mother might not want to raise a child, But killing it is not the right choice. Also ""The baby won't do anything that humanity wouldn't replace at all. "" that is not an excuse, If someone does not benefit society, Then that is no justification to kill him. ""Humans doesn't need to exist. "" Ya, We don't need to exist, Nothing *needs* to exist, But we *do* exist and we should preserve ourselves. Also your example is horrible, ""If Trump isn't born at all then Hillary will take its place"" first you refer to Trump as an it =/ but second you seem to not realize that Trump and Hillary are fundamentally different, And the world would be greatly impacted by this. It isn't an equal trade, All people are different and if someone is gone, The world will be shaped in a much different way. ""a little pain for eternal joy"" see the The British Medical Journal's study on annual suicide rates among woman who went through an abortion ""Also, What is wrong for disposing a baby when it can do nothing at all? "" What is wrong with killing completely paralyzed people because they can do nothing at all? That is no excuse, I have said this several times but killing someone because they don't do anything is horrible (for obvious reasons) ""Abortion itself shouldn't be illegal but if there are people in the family that strongly disagrees then it can be illegal. "" What you said literally defies everything you said previously ""it shouldn't be illegal, But if some people strongly disagree with it then it can be illegal. "" I can understand what you mean, But thats like saying that if you don't like crime then don't do it. ""not a war against a child because it has no sentience as its brain can generate barely anything. "" First, Fetuses are the second stage of human life. Second, Just because someone doesnt think very much doesnt mean that you have the right to kill it. A fetus is an irreplaceable 'slab of meat', ""We don't really need the baby"" We don't need anybody, But we're here for a reason and killing the baby before it could fulfill its purpose in morally wrong. ""Their life barely started"" And you end it, Not because the baby did something wrong, But because the mother made a mistake and had unprotected sex, It is a penalty, Just a penalty for existing. We can cause Mankind to go extinct, But we don't, We can go and murder everyone we meet, But we don't. We can kill unborn babies, And most people don't. ""Adoption was such a positive alternative to abortion, A way to save one life and brighten two more: those of the adoptive parents. "" George W. Bush, ""Decision Points"" If you don't want to, Or can't, Raise a child all you have to do is put it up for adoption. It will bring happiness to the adoptive parents, And give the child a chance at life."	CON	70
70	Sfe78c1c3-Acc4e69da	Dueling should be legalized	"First off, many thanks for accepting this debate. From what I've seen of your comments on this site, I'm sure this will be an engaging and challenging debate and I'm very much looking forward to it. Thanks for laying out the concepts you intend to reference as your framework; they are noted and I don't object to anything you've put forward being used to support an argument. ==Introduction/Framework== I will argue that dueling should be legal on two separate but complementary grounds: -Dueling is an individual right in accordance with the libertarian non-aggression principle. -Dueling is beneficial to society from a utilitarian perspective. ==LIBERTARIAN ARGUMENT - Dueling is a Right== The libertarian non-aggression principle (NAP) states that it should be legal for individuals to do things unless they initiate, or threaten to initiate, physical force against another person or legitimately owned property of another person (1). This is a principle underlying the values of freedom on which Western liberal democracies are currently based. It may seem unusual to apply this principle in the context of a violent act such as dueling, but the central issue of mutual consent invalidates any objection on the basis that dueling involves the initiation of physical force. With consent and in the absence of coercion, dueling is no more a violation of the non-aggression principle than boxing or BDSM, both of which are legal and widely recognized to not contravene the NAP. There are a wide variety of voluntary, dangerous lifestyle choices that are not prohibited by the government, including violent sports, smoking, automobile driving, skydiving, scuba diving, rock climbing, and much more. Consent fights are even already recognized as legal in many jurisdictions in Western liberal democratic societies (2)(3). Prohibiting dueling is completely arbitrary and fundamentally inconsistent with this pattern. ==UTILITARIAN ARGUMENT - Dueling Increases Public Safety== Street violence runs the risk of innocent bystanders being caught in crossfire, or responding law enforcement officers being subject to violence. Duels, on the hand, provide an outlet through which to settle violent disputes which guarantee that only the involved parties run risk of injury. Parties must consent and abide by stipulated rules, and the event is set up in such a way as to eliminate risk to third parties. ==UTILITARIAN ARGUMENT - Dueling Enables Faster Medical Response to Injuries== Duels are prearranged, consensual agreements that follow strict rules and are attended by witnesses. They usually do not result in death, and medical personnel could be on standby to immediately treat injured participants. By contrast, an act of violence outside the bounds of such an arrangement which is criminalized by the state (in the absence of a legalized dueling framework, this is what people would and do turn to) is an unknown and dangerous scenario that is treated by first responders as an active shooter situation. In active shooter situations, ""waiting for tactically trained personnel to arrive may represent a deadly delay to the injured victims"" (4) as emergency medical responders must wait for police to secure the area before they can approach and treat an injured party. ==UTILITARIAN ARGUMENT - Dueling Promotes a Culture of Honour and Justice== There are a number of ways in which individuals can behave obnoxiously, offensively and maliciously and our legal system can't, and shouldn't, take action against them in response (because justifiably there need to be limits on state power and certain precedents can't be set). Currently this leaves nearly infinite ways in which an unscrupulous individual can harm others, and leave their victims impotent to respond in any legal fashion (this could include the spread of negative rumours that don't rise to the level of defamation, obtaining money through unethical and dishonest pretenses without rising to the level of fraud, committing crimes which leave insufficient evidence for law enforcement to take action, etc). These situations leave victims feeling disempowered and damage their self-worth. The psychological impact of such actions can be enormous. Legal dueling would provide an avenue of recourse for these situations in which the legal system is powerless to rectify wrongs. Retribution, incapacitation and deterrence are all recognized justifications for punishment under criminal law (5), so even the state has recognized the value of such concepts and enshrined them in principles of the legal system. Legalizing dueling would extend the avenues of recourse for victimized people, and endow them with a sense of honour and self-worth they would not otherwise be able to attain. (1) http://archive.lewrockwell.com... (2) http://www.canlii.org... (3) http://mynorthwest.com... (4) https://nam.edu... (Page 1) (5) http://catalog.flatworldknowledge.com..."	PRO	71
71	S70e17380-A8f8f203d	The United States should impose Stronger, More Effective Gun Control Laws	"U.S. Congress's Unwillingness to Pass New Gun Control Legistlation has Spurred President Obama to use Executive Authority U.S. Congress's unwillingness to pass new gun control legislation over this last decade--which includes failure to extend the expired Federal Assault Weapons Ban [1]--has prompted President Obama to take matters into his own hands, by using Executive Authority, on the basis of surging incidences of mass shootings across the country. In Summer of 2013, after the U.S. Senate failed to pass bill S.150: the Assault Weapons Ban of 2013, the White House closed a number of gun law loopholes and took various actions to make it harder for criminals to get their hands on guns and for certain assault weapons to be obtained inside the United States. One such executive action included barring the acquisition of machine guns and similar assault weapons without a background check; the new ATF regulation requires all individuals to undergo a background when trying to attain a machine gun, or similiar assault weapon, or a short-barreled shotgun [2]. The White House has also banned U.S. military weapons sold overseas and across national boundaries from returning to the country [2]. The U.S. President has implemented a dozen more Executive Actions to close numerous gun law loopholes and to prevent assault weapons from getting into the wrong hands, but the extent of these regulations is brutally limited. Gun Crime & Injury Due to Firearms Are Off the Charts in America Statistics show that America is presently experiencing a crisis with gun violence [3][4]: --On average, 32 Americans are murdered with guns every day and 140 are treated for firearm injuries in the emergency room; 33,000 Americans are killed with guns each year. --One person is killed by a firearm every 17 minutes, 87 people are killed with guns everyday (either murdered or suicide), 609 are killed with guns every week; over 100,000 are shot in the U.S. per year. --In 2011, more than 80% of all homicides commited in the U.S. were done with firearms. --In 2010, 82 children under 5 years old died from firearms compared with 58 law enforcement officers killed by firearms in the line of duty. --Nearly three times more kids (15,576) were injured by firearms in 2010 then the number of soldiers (5,247) injured in combat in the war in Afghanistan that same year. --Every day on average, 51 Americans kills themselves with a firearm and 45 are shot or killed with a firearm. --The U.S. firearm homicide rate is 20 times higher than the combined rates of 22 countries that are our peers in wealth and population. --In the U.S., firearm homicide is the second leading cause of death for young people 1 to 19 years of age. --A gun in the home is 22 times more likely to be used to kill or injure in a domestic homicide, suicide, or unintentional shooting than to be used in self-defense. The following map illustrates the number of deaths in each U.S. state due to injury by firearms per 100,000 people (year 2007). You'll notice that states with additional gun control laws have fewer deaths due to injury by firearms per capita; this is partly explained by the fact that there are fewer suicides by firearms in these states [6]. The financial toll of firearm violence/injuries in America is also staggering. Every year, U.S. taxpayers pay $100 billion for medical treatment, criminal justice proceedings, new security precautions, and other expenses caused by firearms violence or required for firearms violence prevention [3]. The lifetime medical cost of all gun violence victims in the U.S. is estimated to be $2.3 billion, with approximately half of the cost paid by U.S. taxpayers [3]. The lack of weak, porous gun control laws in the U.S. is a drain on taxpayers. And contrary to popular belief, the number and rate of firearm deaths in the U.S. have not decreased for a decade; they've actually remained the same [7]. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reports that from 1999 to 2010, the number of deaths caused by firearms each year has remained constant (a slight increase) while the rate of firearms deaths has remained the same (10.32 deaths per 100,000 population) (table directly below) [7]. This is in contrast to the decline in both the number of deaths and rate of deaths caused by firearms observed over the previous decade, after the Brady law went into effect and required background checks on most gun purchases (all sales performed by licensed firearms dealers) [8]. Unfortunately this decline has not continued over the last decade. The CDC reports the same trend with HOMICIDE Firearms deaths and rates per 100,000 people over the last decade. Despite observing a decline in this number and rate from the 1980s to 1990s (after the implementation of the Brady gun control law), the numbers and rate remain constant from 1999 to 2010 (table directly below) [8]. The same trend is observed with suicides caused by firearms and with non-fatal injuries caused by firearms; this despite the Brady Campaign showing a slight drop in the percent of Americans and American households that own firearms during that period (graph directly below) [8]. The United States has more than 11,000 gun-related homicide killings per year--which is off the charts compared to other advanced countries [9]. Compare this to Japan, which experienced only 7 gun-related murders in all of 2011; in Japan guns are hard to come by, but they're not completely illegal (approximately half a million firearms are registered to private citizens in Japan) [9]. Japan has a population of 130 million people, or slightly less than one-half the population of the United States [9]. U.S. Gun Rights proponents often bring up the the example of Switzerland to show how liberal gun regulation can accompany low gun crime. For example, the nation's 8 million people own 2.3 million guns, but gun-related homicides numbered just 24 in all of 2009; the U.S. has as rate that is 11 times Switzerland's [9]. But what's often ignored is that most guns registered in Switzerland are military rifles issued to men when they join the conscript army (not concealable, portable handguns) and when Switzerland cut the size of its army over the decades, gun violence also fell, says criminologist Martin Killias at the University of Switzerland; domestic killings and suicides were higher when more people in the nation had access to guns [9]. According to Killias, the real problem is how many people have access to firearms, not the total number of weapons in the nation [9]. And to substantiate this view critics point out that Switzerland has a firearms suicide rate that is the highest in all of Europe [9]. Some Gun Rights proponents also point to Brazil and to Mexico as examples of nations that have banned firearms but that still see homicide-by-firearms rates higher than in the U.S. Still, experts point out that ferocious drug wars mixed with high levels of local corruption push and pull firearms into those regions, through porous, poorly-regulated borders, even though guns are banned in both nations. In these nations, drug gangs are often better-armed than police [9]. However, experts still point out that recent enacted guns laws in Brazil have made a noticeable impact on the country's homicide-by-firearms rate over the years [9]. A recent study of international gun crime statistics has shown that the critical detail in gun violence around the world is gun ownership. Though guns are illegal in places like Mexico and Brazil, easy access to guns in these nations forces them to have high levels of gun crime. The study, which reviewed gun crime in 27 nations, showed that gun accessibility/ownership was an even bigger factor than mental illness when it comes to firearms deaths [10]. The study found that mental illness did play a role, but not as large as gun ownership [10]. Mass Shooting Events are Surging in America Finally, mass shootings are surging in america. Incidences of random mass shootings carried out by disgruntled perpetrators at public schools, in universities, in large malls, in theaters are on the rise [11]. The FBI reports that since 2000, the frequency of Active Shooter Events (mass shootings) has steadily been increasing (graph directly below) [11]. The number of people killed, shot, and injured in these mass shooting events is also surging (graph below) [11]. From 2000 to 2002, there was 5 or less mass shootings per year; by 2003, that number jumped to 7; by 2005, it jumped to 8; and by 2010, the number of mass shooting events climbed to 21 [11]. Horrifying events like those observed in Newtown, Connecticut (where 26 people were killed) and Aurora, Colorado (where 12 people were killed & dozens more injured) are increasing in frequnecy in the U.S. The number of school shootings is also on the rise (distinguished from ""active shooter events""). In fact, since the heinous shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary in Newton, Connecticut, there have been 74 separate school shooting events in the U.S. (map below) [12]. [1] (http://en.wikipedia.org...) [2] (http://seattletimes.com...) [3] (http://www.bradycampaign.org...) [4] (http://usnews.nbcnews.com...) [6] (http://www.thedailybeast.com...) [7] (http://www.dailykos.com...#) [8] (http://www.bradycampaign.org...) [9] (http://www.csmonitor.com...) [10] (http://www.npr.org...) [11] (http://leb.fbi.gov...) [12] (http://news.yahoo.com...)"	PRO	72
72	S70e17380-A2c53183d	The United States should impose Stronger, More Effective Gun Control Laws	"Before I proceed I want to thank Baus for being brave enough to accept this debate. My objective with this debate is to educate both debaters and the readers about firearms violence inside the United States and how it compares to other industrialized nations, and about troubling weaknesses in federal gun control laws and the loopholes specific prohibited individuals use to get their hands on these powerful, remarkable weapons. Loopholes & Weaknesses in current Federal Gun Control Laws As I discussed in the previous ROUND, there are certain limitations with current federal gun control laws that make it difficult for the ATF and law enforcement to reduce gun violence in our nation and to sometimes quickly apprehend a culprit following an incident of gun crime or violence. Among the restrictions placed on law enforcement are the Tiarht Amendements, which prevent law enforcement from creating an electronic registry of gun purchases and gun owners at the federal level (therefore limiting the ATF and other national law enforcement agencies from being maximally efficient in their work and prolonging gun crime/violence investigations) [1]. The Amendments require law enforcement and the ATF to destroy records following gun transaction background checks and they prohibit law enforcement agencies from diseminating what information they might have (such as forms 4473, collected after firearms dealers go out business) to the courts [1]. Furthermore, firearm sales between individual persons is hardly managed at all by current federal gun control laws and such transactions do not legally require a background check to take place [1], providing convicted felons and other individuals prohibited from owning/operating firearms with an opportunity to get their hands on one. Indeed, the ATF estimates that a whopping 40% of all gun sales in the U.S. are made by individual, unlicensed sellers who do not have to perform background checks [2]. But, as I will demonstrate in this ROUND, current federal gun control laws are also weak in other ways and they're presently riddled with loopholes that make it easy for some prohibited people to get their hands on these lethal weapons of war. Currently, millions of fugitives across the country can pass federal background checks and buy guns illegally because police departments are not required to enter names into a national database that tracks criminals on the run [3]. This dreadful gap is largely a byproduct of the fact that police and prosecutors are often unwilling to spend the time or money to pursue fugitives across a state border. Because state law enforcement has no intention of pursuing these fugitives of justice in a different jurisdiction, these criminals travel relatively forgotten; the fact that there's no federal law requiring state law enforcement to enter fugitive names in the FBI fugitive database--the National Instant Background Check System--makes this problem a serious weakness of current federal gun control law [3]. Investigative reporter Brad Heath of USA Today recently found that in five states alone, law enforcement agencies failed to provide information to the FBI database for at least 2.5 million outstanding arrest warrants, according to police and court records on file [3]. What's shocking is that tens of thousands of these fugitives on the run are wanted for violent offenses and felonies [3]. According to USA Today, the federal databases used to perform background checks are missing more than 900,000 Michigan arrest warrants, 150,000 Ohio arrest warrants, 184,000 Washington arrest warrants, and many more from other states [3]. In response to this alarming discovery, Dan Gross of the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence has said, ""It is...not surprising to me the extent to which there are holes in our system, given Congress' lack of success in addressing them"" [3]. In many cases, entering fugitives' names in federal databases would be as simple as checking two boxes in a state law enforcement's computer system, but the lack of courage by Congress to pass additional gun control laws, such as requiring state police to report names to the FBI database, allows this major lapse in background checks to continue [3]. And fugitives on the run are taking this opportunity because of Congress' inaction. Fugitive Deandra Smith, who was already wanted for a nightclub shooting (and multiple felony charges), was able to purchase a variety of guns at an Arkansas Pawn Shop in 2013 because his name was not entered in a federal or even a state database [3]. To quote his lawyer, ""Without that [entering his name in a database for background checks], it wouldn't matter how many background checks...[firearms dealers] ran [3]."" Every year, hundreds of thousands of fugitives on the run and people prohibited from owning firearms, like Smith, attempt to take advantage of the current set-up [4]. According to a new report by the UC Davis Violence Prevention Program, which observed 78 gun shows in 19 states, loopholes in present gun control laws allow for easy access to guns that can be purchased by just about anyone, whether legally prohibited from purchasing a gun or not [5]. Among the findings [5]: --illegal purchases, where surrogates buy a gun from a licensed dealer, is common at gun shows --anonymous, undocumented gun sales are common --parts used to make untraceable guns are widespread and easily attainable at gun shows Garen Wintemute, professor of medicine at UC Davis School of Medicine, found that “illegal"" purchases ""were often conducted entirely out in the open"" [5]. Wintemute asserts that more has to be done to prevent both unregulated gun sales and illegal guns sales at gun shows; “law enforcement needs to have an expanded, proactive program at gun shows to prevent the illegal sale of guns” [5]. If not, individuals prohibited from purchasing firearms, like the dangerously mentally ill, minors, and convicted felons, will find gun shows to be an excellent source to obtain firearms--weapons the law states they shouldn't have. Currently, 44 states have laws regulating the sale of firearms to the mentally ill, but few states submit the names of prohibited mentally ill to the national database for background checks; in fact, just seven states account for 98 percent of all names prohibited for mental illness [4]. A frequently cited example is that of the 2007 Virginia Tech shooter who passed a background check to obtain the gun he used with which he killed 32 people on the university campus (and wounded 17 others), despite being declared mentally ill two years prior [4]. Different states also have varying degrees of additional gun control laws in effect, but some have very few, almost entirely relying on current federal gun control laws (some state governments have also tried to abolish federal gun control laws within their state borders, even calling for the arrest of federal agents who dare to enforce firearms legislation; something not permitted by the U.S. Constitution [6]). What Federal Gun Control Laws Ought to Do Current federal gun control laws do not go far enough to prevent fugitives, convicted felons, the dangerously mentally ill, and minors from obtaining weapons they clearly shouldn't have. The Tiarht Amendments, though understandly trying to protect the anonymity of gun owners, create a stumbling block for the ATF and other law enforcement agencies charged with apprehending culprits of gun crime/violence. They frequently act to prolong the time between an incident of gun crime to final apprehension of the assailant, and in the case of new criminals or fugitives/convicted felons, like Deandra Smith, that's simply more time for them to engage in gun-related criminal activity. It would better serve law and order in this country to establish an electronic registry that law enforcement can use to link an individual gun owner with a registered firearm make, model and serial number. We can still protect the rights of gun owners to defend themselves while more effectively restricting criminals and others prohibited from owning guns. We shouldn't have to make the ATF and other law enforcement agencies jump through hoops and expand their investigations just to determine the individual that owns a gun make with a specific serial number. Determining who owns what gun should be as easy as it is to link a driver with a specified, registered automobile, especially for criminal investigations. Gun transactions between unlicensed individuals should still require a background check; it's simply way too easy for someone prohibited from owning a gun to purchase a firearm through these transactions. The ATF estimates that 40% of all gun sales in the U.S. are made by individual, unlicensed sellers who do not have to perform background checks--well that's just an incredible opportunity for minors, the mentally ill, fugitives of justice, convicted felons, drug peddlers and others to abuse! Gun Control Laws need to be expanded so that all gun transactions require a federal background check. Federal law should require state law enforcement to register a fugitive's name in the FBI fugitive database to better enforce current restrictions with gun laws. Our current gun laws would be so much more effective if this was already the case. Likewise, the names of the prohibited mentall ill should be required to be submitted to the national database for background checks. (Additional recommendations exist.) [1] (http://en.wikipedia.org...) [2] (http://cdm16064.contentdm.oclc.org...) [3] (http://www.usatoday.com...) [4] (http://usnews.nbcnews.com...) [5] (http://www.ucdmc.ucdavis.edu...) [6] (http://www.nytimes.com...)"	PRO	73
73	S7ad5a1f-Aeeba3d00	Death penalty should be allowed	"I'm sorry to hear that and I was too sexually mollested. Any ways, how could you forgive someone that killed your family meme before with reason or cause? So you said , ""The absence of death penalty is synonymous to crime rate increase Again, this is something that needs facts to support it. While in the next sentence you do provide facts, it doesn't support the idea that without the death penalty, there would be less crime. It merely talked about the crime rate over all. It doesn't show, for example, that crime is low or high because of the death penalty. In fact, statistics seem to suggest the opposite. States that don't have the death penalty have fewer murders occur in them than states with the death penalty[7]. Now, I admit that this doesn't suggest that the reason for the murder rate being lower is because of the death penalty. Correlation doesn't equal causation. For example, there could be other reasons why the states without the death penalty had lower rates of murder. Perhaps it is actually the other way around: maybe they chose to have the death penalty removed because they had such a low murder rate and saw it as unnecessary. Or perhaps there is some other cause of the murders being lower. Who knows? Nonetheless, a logical conclusion that can be made from the evidence is that life in prison without parole might seem to be a worse punishment than death. I mean, life in prison might actually be a worse punishment. Who wants to spend the rest of their life in prison? You'd probably want to commit suicide if you were sentenced to that, so death would be a relief. Now, that is a logical conclusion, what you offered is not a logical conclusion because you offered no data that showed correlation between the death penalty and amount of crime."" Death penalty does lower crime rates and here is a quote. "" A more recent study by Kenneth Land of Duke University and others concluded that, from 1994 through 2005, each execution in Texas was associated with ""modest, short-term reductions"" in homicides, a decrease of up to 2.5 murders. And in 2009, researchers found that adopting state laws allowing defendants in child murder cases to be eligible for the death penalty was associated with an almost 20 percent reduction in rates of these crimes.""(http://dailysignal.com...) This shows that it did in fact decrease and almost 20 percent reduction of crime rates. Yes lying is bad but the death penalty is a bigger issue than your personal life. Yes I must agree that it does cost more to use the death penalty than to hold them in prison . That's all I have to say for this round."	PRO	74
74	S712e9d27-A9b9f8e1d	The United States should decriminalize drugs.	"I. Intro In the United States, drug abuse is a pandemic. Just about any substance available is suspect to abuse. In response, the government has cracked down hard in the past half-century, using prison time and criminal charges to deter use. However, despite millions of hours and trillions of dollars, the national addiction rate has stayed relatively constant, at 1-2% since 1970. It's time for change. II. Harm Principle Obviously, many drugs are outlawed in the United States. However, many people take and abuse mind altering substances that the government has deemed okay, while others use different substances that the government deems dangerous. This contradicts with British philosopher John Stuart Mill’s harm principle. The harm principle boils down to the idea that so long as the actions of one citizen do not cause harm to another, there is no reason to villainize such actions. If no negative externalities exist, under the harm principle, there is no reason for drugs to be criminalized. If, under the influence of a drug, an individual commits a crime, then clearly their actions must be punished. However, the drug itself should be freely ingested without consequence. There is a reason drinking alcohol is legal, but punching someone while drunk is not. It all boils down to one question: are you actively harming anyone else? If the answer is no, it shouldn't be illegal. III. Prison System Mandatory minimums (MMs) are common in the American justice system, especially for drug-related crimes. First we'll look at the theoretical merits to MMs. MMs beg the question as to a prison's purpose: ""rehabilitation or retribution?"" and suggest the latter. “To proponents, their certainty and severity help ensure that incarceration's goals will be achieved. Those goals include punishing the convicted and keeping them from committing more crimes for a period of time, as well as deterring others not in prison from committing similar crimes.” [1] In theory, this would deter users and dealers, while at the same time, keeping many of those people off the streets for a certain period of time. This would, therefore, achieve retribution, and likely deterrence as well. There are two problems with taking the retribution approach with drug crimes. The first is that in the case of retribution, you are punishing the person for the harm they caused another person or society at large. Drug users did not harm anyone, though. The second is that as long as they are independent from more egregious offenses, there is going to come a day these people are going to return to society. Both of these issues show that, in the instance of drug crimes, it makes more sense to prioritize rehabilitation. The current penal system does the opposite. A former LAPD Deputy Chief discusses this in HuffPost. Upon incarceration, users’ prospects of achieving a better life, as well as those of their families, plummet. They are criminals due to what they do to their bodies, but usually that's it. However, prison culture changes them. The longer they are in the system (due in large part to MMs) the less they stay in touch with life on the outside. In prison, life is violent. The longer the drug users are subjected to life where violence is a social norm, the more likely this is to translate to their behavior upon release. Recidivism rates are approximately 2/3, making it clear that one of the goals of the penal system, rehabilitation, is far from being achieved in the status quo.[2] This creates a problem, because The United States is also facing a prison overcrowding epidemic. This creates a positive feedback loop. MMs cause people to go to jail for extended periods of time. Going to jail for longer means there are fewer empty cells for a longer period of time. It also means you are more likely to recommit a crime, putting you back in prison and starting the whole process over again. If we were to stop this issue at the source, MMs, the problem would decrease dramatically. For drug use in particular, this would be the case, as the Economist points out that approximately a quarter of the US prison population is incarcerated due to drug use or other drug-related crimes. [3] Decriminalization would provide the benefit of reduced prison populations and better prospects of life for users. MMs are one of the most obvious obstructions of justice with relation to drug convictions. However, MMs beget other related problems, and exacerbate current ones. Prison overcrowding is a major issue in the United States. Put simply, the U.S. incarcerates too many people, and inmates jailed for drug charges are an unjustifiably large portion of the prison population. Adjusting such policies could easily remedy the matter. Prior to the war on drugs, our prison population remained mostly constant and low. However, due to policies created under Nixon that escalated the government’s efforts to get drugs off the streets, the prison population has risen dramatically. According to The Daily Kos, after Nixon started and Reagan escalated the drug war, our prison populations increased by 500%. In 1980, under 50,000 people in the United States were incarcerated for drug offenses. Today it is half a million, and the “land of the free” has the world’s largest prison population. [4] The Economist [3] estimates drug crimes constitute roughly a quarter of our incarcerated population. If we decriminalized drug consumption, (assuming about 80% of the people imprisoned for drug crimes are for usage) and applied this retroactively, about 1/5 of our inmates would no longer be behind bars. This would help solve some major issues. The biggest issue this would address is prison overcrowding, which has become a national pandemic, with some prisons at over 200% capacity. Due to lack of space in cells, there are instances of prisoners being put up in gymnasiums, crowded into the small walkways their cots created. Other documentation of California prisons has shown that in some instances when no mental healthcare is accessible, a suicidal prisoner would be locked in a cage the size of a telephone booth, due to lack of bathroom access would be forced to urinate themselves, and had no choice but to stand in his or her own waste for nearly 24 hours. Crowded conditions raise questions with respect to the 8th Amendment, and the atrocious conditions in the instances of suicidal prisoners definitely violates the rights guaranteed to all American citizens. This is evident of a major issue with the current system under which our penal institutional operates, and must be addressed effectively and quickly. The incredibly simple solution to this is major issue to decriminalize drugs, and retroactively reduce or end sentences. This would dramatically reduce the prison population and quickly alleviate the overcrowding so much of the nation is facing. Furthermore, it would reduce future incarceration rates, as those who would currently be jailed for low level drug offenses, and therefore prone to high recidivism rates. They would never re-enter the system because they would not enter it in the first place. One of the major issues society at large has with this idea is the notion that there will be a major uptick in drug usage following either of the paths of action. A case study of Portugal disproves, and this will be expanded upon later. Either way, users will be treated as what they are: addicts, not criminals, and their prospects of being able to change their habits will dramatically increase. Ultimately, drug sentencing harms inmates, their families, and society at large, and must be changed. IV. Sources [1] https://www.rand.org... [2] http://www.huffingtonpost.com... [3] http://www.economist.com... [4] https://www.dailykos.com..."	PRO	75
75	S6702cc42-A325ff177	Abortion should be legal	"Thanks for responding! I couldn't check your first claims video as the link did not work. I don't see your point in saying that most people wouldn't abort, Later in your clam you compare cars to abortions so I am going to do a comparison myself, Murder is pretty unlikely and most people wouldn't commit murder, That doesn't mean it should be legal, Just cause something is unlikely doesn't mean that you shouldn't try to prevent it. Abortion IS murder, Here is a quote from the US constitution "". . . They are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, That among these are Life, Liberty, And the Pursuit of Happiness. . . "" The Constitution gives people the right to life, Something that Abortion does not give, I also see that you compare a life to achievements made by that person, But you seem to forget about things that might not be replaced, If your mother was aborted, You wouldn't be born and everything you have done in this world would never have happened. You should hold a human life as sacred and protect it. Also don't compare a life of a pig to a life of a human, Its disgusting to put a cow on the same level as a human being. ""It is a poverty to decide that a child must die so that you may live as you wish. "" R13; Mother Theresa of Calcutta ""I've noticed that everyone who is for abortion has already been born. "" R13; Ronald Reagan I don't understand what you mean, Are you saying that its not selfish to end another's life, A person who did not even get a chance at life, You say that ""Abortion isn't losing anything important"" clearly meaning you say that a babies life is not important, You even say that ""Human life is disposable"" which is just down right horrible, A life is a life and you should take its very existence away from it because it is inconvenient to yourself. You SHOULD be responsible for your pregnancy. First thing, You compare grades on a test to a child's life which is like comparing littering to rape. Second, A mistake does not give you the right to do something messed up example: I accidentally murdered someone, But I won't be punished because its an accident, When you fail a test, You have to own up to that and deal with your bad grade, If you mess up at work, Then there will be consequences, The boss won't forgive you cause its an accident, Losing a tournament at RoboWars makes you deal with defeat, You must deal with you mistakes and overcome them. Also because China used abortions to control its population does not mean its right or it should be implemented across the world, I am going to use this quote again ""On the question of limiting population: As you know, The Japanese have been doing it rather vigorously, Through abortion, Which I think would be repugnant to all Americans"" - John F. Kennedy, December 1959 Please give evidence that we feel pain in the mothers vagina next time. But if we do, Its much better than killing it, The pain would be short, It will suck, But it's necessary, Unlike abortion, Same with death, It is inevitable. Babies dying before birth is bad but we can only do so much to prevent that, I don't see how what you are saying is proving your point either. Pain does exist, And pain really does suck, But pains like stubbing your toe or falling on the floor are under your control, Pain does exist but that doesn't mean we should go causing unnecessary pain, Just cause murder exists doesn't mean we should go murdering. It's horrible that so much people die from car crashes, But these things happen, There will always be stuff like that, As bad as it is. But the difference is that we try to stop car crashes and we try to stop unemployed, Because they lead to suffering, But abortions aren't being stoped, And we should try and stop them, As they are easily reachable, Unlike stoping car crashes. Also just because abortion may ease ones problems doesn't mean it is good, We should always look for ways to benefit ourselves, And others, But if we want to push ourselves forward, We should never push others back. ""The baby doesn't even have an identity and it isn't going to do anything humanity can't replace elsewhere. "" so if something is not benefiting humanity then it should be killed, I don't think thats right, And I hope you don't think thats right either. ""Life without caution is like a car without brake. "" R13; Bamigboye Olurotimi ""I feel the greatest destroyer of peace today is 'Abortion', Because it is a war against the child. . . A direct killing of the innocent child, 'Murder' by the mother herself. . . And if we can accept that a mother can kill even her own child, How can we tell other people not to kill one another? How do we persuade a woman not to have an abortion? As always, We must persuade her with love. . . And we remind ourselves that love means to be willing to give until it hurts. . . "" R13; Mother Teresa ""[I]t seems to me as clear as daylight that abortion would be a crime. "" R13; Mahatma Gandhi, All Men are Brothers: Autobiographical Reflections ""Adoption was such a positive alternative to abortion, A way to save one life and brighten two more: those of the adoptive parents. "" R13; George W. Bush, Decision Points ""More than a decade ago, A Supreme Court decision literally wiped off the books of fifty states statutes protecting the rights of unborn children. Abortion on demand now takes the lives of up to 1. 5 million unborn children a year. Human life legislation ending this tragedy will some day pass the Congress, And you and I must never rest until it does. Unless and until it can be proven that the unborn child is not a living entity, Then its right to life, Liberty, And the pursuit of happiness must be protected. "" R13; Ronald Reagan ""Abortion is. . . One more heart that will never beat again. Two more eyes that will never see light. Two more hands that will never touch or feel. Two more legs that will never run for miles. Two more lips that will never speak a word. One more mouth that will never know a smile. "" R13; Queen Susan the Gentle's friend ""Anyone who celebrates or endorses abortion but then pretends to recoil at any other form of murder is lying. "" R13; Matt Walsh, The Unholy Trinity: Blocking the Left's Assault on Life, Marriage, And Gender ""You mass slaughter your own children and call it 'reproductive freedom'. "" R13; Steve Deace, A Nefarious Plot ""Abortion is when a baby gets the death penalty for the behavior of someone else. "" R13; Unknown ""We cannot diminish the value of one category of human life--the unborn--without diminishing the value of all human life. "" R13; Ronald Reagan, Abortion and the Conscience of the Nation ""Life is a civil right. Abortion is a civil wrong. "" R13; Alveda C. King ""For abortion opponents believe that a class of persons are being killed by such methods as dismemberment, Suffocation, And burning, And thus are more than perplexed to be told that they don't have to participate in the killings if they don't want to. Saying 'If you don't like abortion, Don't have one. ' to those opposed to abortion is similar to telling abolitionists not to own slaves if they don't like slavery. "" R13; Francis J. Beckwith, Relativism: Feet Firmly Planted in Mid-Air ""Life is the great civil rights issue of our day"" R13; Jack Cashill ""The anti-life proves only one thing: that you can get away with the most extraordinary offenses to morality and truth in this country if you'll just get yourself called Reverend. People like that should be out in the street, Shouting and hollering with a cardboard sign and selling pencils from a cup. "" R13; Christopher Hitchens ""The rights of children as individuals begin while yet the remain the fetus. . . I hold abortion to be just as much murder as the killing of a person after birth is murder. "" R13; Victoria Claflin Woodhull ""We must not be surprised when we hear of murders, Killings, Of wars, Or of hatred. . . If a mother can kill her own child, What is left but for us to kill each other? "" R13; Mother Teresa"	CON	76
76	S712e9d27-Ae0cc2802	The United States should decriminalize drugs.	I. Intro What we have is a system that is not working. It’s clear from my case, as well as various other issues. It’s time to try something new, and that pathway leads to decriminalization. In order to prove that drugs should remain illegal, Con has three pillars to uphold. The first is that a government has a responsibility to prevent people from harming themselves. The second is that drugs are harmful. The third and final pillar is that the status quo is the best way to achieve lower rates of drug use. From there, she must prove that the benefits from maintaining the status quo outweigh the harms of the status quo and the benefits of legalization outlined in my case. II. Re: Government Responsibility Cross apply my points regarding the harm principle to my opponent’s arguments about a government’s responsibility. We know the harms that can come from drugs. If someone chooses to accept those harms, it is the choice of the user, not the government. III. Re: Health Though some drugs, such as heroin, cocaine, and ecstasy can have negative health effects (though many are overstated by Con) marijuana is different. Con starts by saying marijuana causes “severe anxiety and paranoia.” However, her source (which seems semi-reliable at best) says otherwise. Cannabis has a number of different effects. It is classed as a sedating and hallucinogenic drug. Its effects can turn out to be pleasant or unpleasant: Taking cannabis can make people feel chilled out, relaxed and happy, and they may get the giggles or become very talkative. It can make you more aware of your senses, and the hallucinogenic effects can even give you a feeling of time slowing down. It can make you feel very hungry – this is sometimes called ‘getting the munchies'. Some people have one or two drags on a joint and feel light-headed, faint and sick. This is sometimes called a ‘whitey’. Cannabis may cause feelings of anxiety, suspicion, panic and paranoia. [17] Note the stark contrast between what Con says and what her source says. Not only is she exaggerating, she leaves out benefits listed. However, if we look to independent research, we can see that it can actually help fight anxiety, paranoia, and depression. Con also goes on about the lung issues related to cannabis. Here we need to be careful. Her source is a government agency [18]. This is relevant because the marijuana used in government studies is actually nothing like what you can get on the streets [1], so studies using this strain are inherently unreliable. In addition, this only applies to cannabis ingested via smoking, and does not apply to oils or edibles consumed with food products or via other methods. Furthermore, the longest running study using independent data actually suggests that when smoked occasionally, the opposite is true, and that marijuana use enhances lung functioning. [2] This is in addition to the myriad of other health benefits marijuana provides. It can be used to treat or slow chronic diseases such as MS, cancer, Dravet’s Syndrome, etc. It can also stimulate creativity, speed up metabolism, and suppress nightmares, among many other benefits. [3] IV. Re: Criminalization So far I have taken out the first critical pillar of my opponent’s argument: government ought to protect us from ourselves. I have cast doubt on the second pillar, which centers around the health problems Con listed, and even turned the marijuana argument into offense for Pro. Finally, I will dismantle the third pillar of the Con position, that criminalization keeps usage rates low. This was not explicitly laid out in the Con case, but was heavily implied. Obviously, the major concern with decriminalization is that people will be more likely to use and abuse “hard” drugs such as heroin, meth, or krokodil. However, there is data from other countries who have decriminalized all drugs. Case studies can evaluate the data and generally point to benefits of decriminalization. Portugal is the poster-child of the health-focused drug policy movement. In 2001, Portugal decriminalized all drugs. (To be precise, multiple charges can stack up and lead to criminal charges, but that is rare, occurring in only 12% of cases.) Since their decriminalization efforts, the Portuguese have seen a 12% reduction in the social cost of drugs. [4] This was, in most part, driven by the decrease in drug-related deaths. Portugal now has the second-lowest rate of drug-related deaths in Europe and has seen a dramatic decrease in new AIDS cases among drug users. The average among EU member nations is 17.3 drug deaths per million, while Portugal is at an impressive 3 per million. [5] It is curious, then, why American lawmakers still claim that if we were to decriminalize drugs, the effects would be disastrous and an epidemic would ensue. We are approaching two decades of data from Portugal, and that could not be farther from the truth. V. Sources Con's Round 1 Sources [17] http://m.talktofrank.com... [18] https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov... Pro's Round 2 Sources [1] https://www.washingtonpost.com... [2] http://healthland.time.com... [3] http://www.businessinsider.com... [4] http://theinfluence.org... [5] https://www.washingtonpost.com...	PRO	77
77	S7ad5a1f-Ab503ff20	Death penalty should be allowed	"Yes people don't believe it but you have to have faith but that's besides the point. I My next claim | this is what you would say. \/ There are more pros to the death penalty than cons. Yes people can get wrongly executed One of the arguments of opponents of death penalty is the inevitability of sending innocent people who are wrongly accused to death row and eventually execution. In relation to free will, some criminals are suffering from mental illness or are having clouded judgment at the time of the crime.Opponents contend that there are instances where people commit pre-meditated crimes and are aware of what they are doing. However, it does not discount the fact that crimes can also be committed out of passion or extreme anger triggered by a situation which makes an offender act on impulse. There are also those who are suffering from mental illnesses and are not taking medication which can lead to them committing offenses they have no control of. It is an added cost to the government and taxpayers"" money, With the argument that life imprisonment with no parole is more expensive, opponents say that in general, the government spends more taxpayers"" money in handling cases of death row inmates. This is due to the length and complexity of trials, the number or defenders to be hired and the overall process. They contend that there are two trials the state will spend for. One is for the verdict and another for the sentencing, not including the number of appeals that will be submitted while keeping the convicted prisoner inside maximum security. Death penalty is a form of revenge, While proponents say that imposing capital punishment is a form of retribution, that is, to punish who has committed a crime, opponents argue that it is revenge. For the latter, to avenge a crime committed to another individual may be understandable but killing someone for murdering another person is also unconstitutional. It is crime in itself that is only masked by the term capital punishment and in truth, only continues the series of violence. It is a platform that is anti-poor and discriminatoryand Those who are death row inmates and sentenced to death are mostly based on racial discrimination as evidenced by a high percentage of inmates being African-American and members of the minority. Moreover, accused individuals who are poor are mostly the ones who get the death penalty for the reason that they lack the finances to seek for great and powerful defense attorneys. They don""t have the money to pay for good defense. _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ This is my info -Death penalty costs the government less as opposed to life imprisonment without parole.Proponents say despite expenses incurred by the government from imposing capital punishment, death penalty is still cheaper compared to the costs of life without parole. Although there is no contention that the cost of the former is high, life imprisonment is accumulatively higher given the expenses for food, health care and other costs of sustaining the lives of incarcerated individuals serving life. -It deters would-be criminals to commit felonies and Advocates of death penalty cite examples on how imposing the death sentence or abolishing it have affected crime rate. According to a study conducted in the late 1960""s, there was a 7% crime rate increase on the years when this law was abolished. On the other hand, fewer crimes were committed with the increase in number of inmates in the death row who were executed each year. Proponents say that these figures clearly indicate the efficacy of capital punishment on deterring crimes. - The absence of death penalty is synonymous to crime rate increase.As reported by time magazine, an estimated 2,000,000 people in the United States have been victims of crimes, from assault to murder. With insufficient laws to address this problem or the lack of teeth in these laws, criminals become careless and bolder to commit heinous crimes because of the leniency in punishments and loop holes in the justice system. For these reason, there is a need for death penalty. -It is constitutional and does not violate the Eight Amendment which prohibits the federal government from imposing excessive bail, fines and cruel and unusual punishments, including torture. Advocates of death penalty say that the pain associated with the execution of a death row inmate is not improbable. Even the U.S. Supreme Court has rejected the Eight Amendment challenge which stated that the drug used to render the criminal coma-like unconscious before injecting the lethal drug is not capable to do so completely. The Supreme Court was firm on its stand that any method of execution definitely will inflict some pain and states with capital punishment have already adopted more humane methods to carry out executions. -Death penalty is a just punishment for crimes committed against the rights to life, freedom and safety of victims. It is the right of an individual to live peacefully and be free from harm. Unfortunately, crimes like murder, rape and assault are committed by perpetrators who have no regard for life and property of others. Since they violate other people""s lives, it is but fair that they are brought to justice and suffer the fate they rightfully deserve. People who are for capital punishment also talk about free will wherein an individual is given the right to do things in his or her own volition and he or she is responsible for his or her own fate. All of this shows that it is constitutional, and it would make the victim get peace or have freedom. What would you want the judge to say if you or a loved one got killed, or maybe your whole family except for you that no has to suffer from what happened? Please answer."	PRO	78
78	S564603a4-Afb8f1e68	The death penalty should exist.	"I thank my opponent. This round is for constructive arguments only, so let's get into this. Before I begin my arguments, I want to say to the gentle reader that it is more important to have a governmental or societal impact when you are having a change of policy. If society is impacted negatively as a whole (or the government), this should outweigh any individual harms (one person getting mad over it, for instance). This is not to say, however, that morals are not important in a debate of this type because the job of the government is to uphold morals and to protect the people. C1. Non-efficient cost. A. General burden. According to a study done by Loyola Law School [1], the state of California has spent over $4 billion on the death penalty since it was resumed in 1978, which equates to over $300 million for each of the 13 executions that were carried out in the last 37 years. While this may not seem like a lot in the grand scheme of things, but in 2010 the state of California had a debt that rang to the tune of nearly $800 billion [2]. This is money that is uselessly spent on state executions that could be spent on relieving the debt crisis that the state is currently in, and allow for a higher quality of life for the people of California. And this is not only specific to the state of California, either. Since 1997, the state of Washington spent $120 million on 5 prisoners, equating to a $24 million court system cost per person, while the state currently has a debt of just under $80 billion [3][4]. The state of Maryland spent $186 million over five executions, meaning that each execution cost taxpayers $37.2 million each [3]. The state of Maryland also has a state debt of over $94 billion [5]. I could go on and on, but I decide to stop here. What I am trying to get at is that all of these funds that are going towards the death penalty are not necessary; instead they could go to improving the financial crisis that each of these states have. They could go to improving the quality of life of all of their residents instead of killing people without a just cause. The job of the government is to protect people and to ensure the maximum amount of rights that are necessary, not to decrease the quality or quantity of life of its inhabitants. B. Less efficient than life in prison. I could not find any statistics about a nation-wide average for the cost of life in prison without parole, so I will be using California as my basis. If my opponent asks I can delve deeper into the web to find nation-wide averages, but I believe that California is a fine example place to base this argument on. According to statistics that have been offered by the Office of California's Nonpartisan Legislative Analyst, the average annual price for housing an inmate in a jail is over $47,000, while the Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation finds that the average cost is just over $44,500 [6]. Whatever the actual number may be, which should logically be thought to be roughly $45,000, is lower than a death penalty process. If we assume that the average life-in-prison prisoner gets placed in there around age 20 and live to be around age 70, we see a time gap of 50 years. Using basic arithmetic (45,000 x 50), we get a grand total of around $2 million. When we compare this to the average cost of an execution in the state of California, which was stated earlier at a whopping $300 million, the disparity of these two numbers is absurd. The amount for a life-in-prison prisoner is less than 1% the cost of a death row inmate, which as a government cannot be condoned. C2. Morality. A. Innocent death. Innocence is not committing a crime that you are accused of, and in a society that holds onto justice such as the USA, if you have not committed a crime you are not expected to pay the dues of this crime. However, as the Guardian explains in an article released on 28 April, 2014, the amount of innocent people that have been posthumously declared as innocent is at 4% [7]. ""At least 4.1% of all defendants sentenced to death in the US in the modern era are innocent"", they explain. In a just society, we should not be putting the innocent to death. Having any innocent deaths is atrocious and undermines the values of justice -- which according to Kant is a respect for the right (or innocent, in this case) [8]. Posthumously announcing that one is innocent does not give them the respect that they deserve, instead it declares that the system was wrong and that the system is not based upon justice, instead retribution. C3. Personal harms. A. Families touched by murder denounce the death penalty. It has been shown time and time again that families that have been touched by a person that may receive the death penalty do not actively or usually seek it when seeking justice for their loved ones. If we look back to the Boston Marathon Bombing that occurred two years ago (April 15, 2013), then we can remember that this was a day that was filled with both terror and death. However, the parents of the youngest victim taken by the bombing do not want the death penalty to even be considered when Tsarnaev is convicted. They say in a letter to the Boston Globe, ""[w]e are in favor of and would support the Department of Justice in taking the death penalty off the table in exchange for the defendant spending the rest of his life in prison without any possibility of release and waiving all of his rights to appeal."" What this means is that the family of someone who was taken by an act of terror do not want to see the killer die for his actions, just rot in prison [9]. Another good example of a personal harm created by the death penalty would be the case of Julie Welch, who was taken in an Oklahoma bombing. The family of Julie didn't seek the death penalty at all, and they said that executing people for crimes ""is simply vengeance; and it was vengeance that killed Julie.... Vengeance is a strong and natural emotion. But it has no place in our justice system."" This means that another bombing victim's family doesn't want vengeance to be part of the justice system, but instead for justice to actually be sought [8]. If the family of a victim does not want to suffer more pain due to the death of a criminal, then why are we allowing them to? We are not truly honoring the victim's family or the victim themselves when we do these actions, and this is not morally permissible by the government. C4. Bipartisan Approval A. Example from Nebraska Nebraska was the last state to ban the death penalty outright, and they did so just 11 days ago [10][11]. While the senate is officially and legally nonpartisan (no parties allowed, per state law), the majority of the senate leans to more conservative values. The lawmakers two weeks ago agreed that the death penalty is ineffective, costly, immoral and harms everyone involved. This was the first republican-leaning state in over 40 years to outlaw the death penalty [12]. When the bill passed into law, Ernie Chambers, a representative in the Nebraska Unicameral who has been fighting against the death penalty since he came into office in 1971 (and is also my profile picture) said, ""[t]oday we are doing something that transcends me, that transcends this Legislature, that transcends this state. We are talking [and acting upon] human dignity."" If a republican state can agree that the death penalty is impractical and does not lead to a better society, then I think that we can step across party lines and act on what really matters - banning the death penalty. [1]. http://www.lls.edu... [2]. http://ballotpedia.org... [3]. http://www.deathpenaltyinfo.org... [4]. http://ballotpedia.org... [5]. http://ballotpedia.org... [6]. http://www.mountain-news.com... [7]. http://www.theguardian.com... [8]. http://deathpenaltycurriculum.org... [9]. http://mashable.com... [10]. http://en.wikipedia.org... [11]. http://www.timeanddate.com... [12]. http://www.nytimes.com... With very few characters, I give it back to you, pro. http://www.lls.edu..."	CON	79
79	S70e17380-A9182f4aa	The United States should impose Stronger, More Effective Gun Control Laws	"Resolution: The United States should impose Stronger, More Effective Gun Control Laws The U.S. Supreme Court has consistently ruled that U.S. Congress has the right to pass gun control legislation as long as it doesn't violate the Second Amendment--but how is this possible? Easy. It's because most people don't truly understand the Second Amendment Before we get into the lively discussion of why U.S. Congress should impose sensible, more effective gun control laws than are currently on the books, I'm going to briefly explain that U.S. Congress has this power, and that the U.S. Supreme Court has historically and consistently ruled in favor of this interpretation [1][2]. Furthermore, the implied powers granted to U.S. Congress via Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitution--the portion I'm referring to known as the ""Necessary and Proper"" Clause--give Congress the authority to pass gun control legislation, as long as it does not violate the Second Amendment [3][4]. First of all, in order to understand why the U.S. Supreme Court has historically ruled that gun control is not unconstitutional, we have to look at the exact wording of the Second Amendment--which brielfy states the exact motive for having it inserted in the Bill of Rights. ""Amendment II. A well regulated militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of people to keep and bear Arms shall not be infringed. [5]"" There are actually several ways to interpret this, but the most conservative U.S. Supreme Courts (and by extension, U.S. Congress) have interpretted this to mean that people have the right to arm themselves for the purposes of self-defense--but not necessarily for anything beyond that [3]. In other words, the Second Amendment grants people the right to arm themselves in self-defense--but not to maliciously and criminally injure others, to rob other people's property, or to act against law enforcement or state and federal governments [3]. Of course, this fits in line with the most conservative rulings of the nation's highest court, but historically the Court has also interpretted the Amendment to mean that having arms is only constitutionally protected for military purposes [4]. In fact, this is a position held by several sitting members of the current U.S. Supreme Court, and also the recently retired Justice John Paul Stevens [4]. Either way, the U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that there is nothing unconstitutional about having moderate (conservative rulings) to abundant (liberal rulings) national gun control laws, because the Constitution doesn't guarantee the unrestricted, unconditional right to own firearms [1][3][4]. In fact, because of historical U.S. Supreme Court rulings, U.S. Congress has already passed various laws restricting gun ownership or requiring gun registration and background checks on some gun purchases. As early as 1934, Congress passed the National Firearms Act, which required certain firearms and destructive devices to be registered with the U.S. government and which imposed a tax on sales of such devices; failure to comply with the act had criminal penalties, including up to 10 years of incarceration and between $10,000 to $100,000 fines for individual violations [6]. Over the years, congressional legislation signed into law has made it a crime for convicted felons, those convicted of certain misdemeanors, and for fugitives of justice to own and use firearms; people who illegally use drugs are prohibited from owning/operating a firearm, as are people who have been committed to a mental institution and who suffer a dangerous mental illness (however, not everyone diagnosed with a severe mental illness is prohibited from owning firearms); others are outlawed from owning and using firearms as well [1]. Current Federal Gun Control Laws and Their Limitations In the last paragraph, I explained that certain people are probited from owning/operating firearms under federal law in the U.S. These people include [1]: -convicted felons/people convicted of certain misdemeaners -fugitives of justice -unlawful users of drugs -non U.S. citizens/non-permanent legal residents -people committed to mental institutions and diagnosed with dangerous mental illness -those with a criminal history of domestic violence (a single misdemeaner incident or more/greater) -some others But current federal gun control laws also place legal responsibilities (punishable with a fine and/or incarceration for not complying) on people who engage in the business of selling and buying firearms, also known as gun dealers. Current national law requires gun/firearms dealers to be licensed by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF), and federal restrictions make it a crime for them to sell firearms to people under 18 years of age and other people prohibited from owning/using firearms [1]. It is a crime for a gun dealer to sell, deliver, or transfer a firearm without the transaction first being approved by a prescribed source, after a background check has been conducted; the dealer is also required to document the sale of the firearm with federal form 4473, which identifies the purchaser's information and the make, model, and serial number of the firearm [1]. However, form 4473 is kept by the dealer, and the ATF is not allowed to put the purchaser's information in an electronic registry that can be later used by law enforcement; furthermore, current laws (the Tiahrt Amendments) require that the ATF destroy records on background checks after 24 hours that it approves a gun sale, and the ATF cannot use tracing data in some legal proceedings to revoke or temporarily suspend a dealer's license [1]. The ATF can only investigate dealers on an individual basis with regards to purchases, and can only collect 4472 forms after a gun dealer goes out of business [1]. It's these limitations that place great strain on the ATF and that prevent it from more effectively carrying out its work. Because the ATF cannot create an electronic registry on gun purchases and must destroy information after it approves a gun sale (background checks are performed soley to determine if the gun purchaser is someone prohibited from owning/operating a gun), crimes committed with firearms take longer to investigate and provides the assailant with more time to break the law. The lack of an electronic registry on gun purchases in some cases allows assailants who use guns to avoid ever being detected and be brought to justice. The Bradley Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence reports that the current weak guns laws in place at the federal level have allowed tens of thousands of guns to leave gun shops without checks or records, one of the reasons being the severe restrictions placed on the ATF's role during transactions and the follow up [7]. Requring gun dealers to better keep records of all firearms in their possession and to register all gun purchases in an electronic registry would allow the ATF and other law enforcement to better track guns in this nation and would vastly reduce gun crimes and violence; it would also shorten the time between an incident of gun crime and apprehension by law enforcement. Gun sales and transactions between individuals is even less strict and unfortuneately a background check and federal form 4473 are not legally required in such sales, which increases the probability that someone prohibited from owning a firearm will obtain one through such a transaction, such as a convicted felon or a minor. It also makes it more difficult for the ATF and other law enforcement to track a gun sold in this way used in a criminal incident [7]. In point of fact, firearms sold by ""occassional sellers""--people not required to abide with the federal background check--were used in the Columbine School massacre that killed 12 students and 1 teacher, not including the two young perpetrators [7], who committed multiple felony violations of federal in the days leading up to the school shooting [8]. Firearms sold by ""occassional sellers"" in the U.S. have also found their way into the hands of terrorist organizations in the middle east, including the Lebanese branch of Hezbollah, and across the Southern border into Mexico, where rivaling drug gangs have used the weapons to mow down each other and countless innocent bystanders [7]. Shockingly, the Brady Center to Prevent Gun Violence reports that more than 90% of the guns used by Mexican drug cartels originate in the U.S; 2000 guns are estimated to cross--illegally--the Southern border into Mexico per day [9]. Mexico, where guns are strictly outlawed, has seen over 100,000 people lose their lives in a drug war partly fueled by illegal firearms being shipped in from the U.S. [10]. The ATF estimates that 40% of all gun sales in the U.S. are made by unlicensed sellers who do not perform background checks, and that this is one major reason why guns are flowing across the Mexican border at such an alarming rate [9]. But, as we shall see in the next ROUND, the U.S. is also suffering a major crisis all its own, for its weak/inefficient federal gun control laws currently in place. [1] (http://en.wikipedia.org...) [2] (http://online.wsj.com...) [3] (http://en.wikipedia.org...) [4] (http://www.businessweek.com...) [5] (http://www.ushistory.org...) [6] (http://en.wikipedia.org...) [7] (http://www.nytimes.com...;) [8] (http://en.wikipedia.org...) [9] (http://cdm16064.contentdm.oclc.org...) [10] (http://en.wikipedia.org...)"	PRO	80
80	S965182df-A15bf1f74	All drugs should be legalized.	Thanks for making this debate! I will expand the definitions briefly. In my arguments I will include economical, federal, as well has moral standpoints GDP-An economical measurement that stands for “Gross Domestic Product” The monetary value of all the finished goods and services produced within a country's borders in a specific time period, in this case, it is within a year GSP: An economical measurement that stands for “Gross state product”. The definition for GDP and GSP is the same, however GSP is the measurement statewise, unlike GDP which is countrywise. Again, this is within a year C.1 Drug legalization will have a heavy negative impact on the economy Vermont (1) had New hampshire (2) have one of the highest drug problems, yet the lowest GDP. (3) (In this case we will refer GSP) This can certainly imply that the drug problem is associated to the decline of the GSP. Now, I am not implying that the illicit drug use is the sole cause of the decreased GSP. However, it is certainly more than a coincidence. To support my argument further, I will refer to the DEA to the economic downfalls. ->“Association does not imply causation, therefore, drug legalization and decline in GSP is irrelevant” This is a valid point in regards to my GSP argument. However, “Association does not imply causation” is only valid when there are totally unrelated variables. In this case everyone high on drugs and decreased productivity are not totally unrelated. This is part of the reason why many companies have drug tests. Drug use by children often is associated with other forms of unhealthy, unproductive behavior, including delinquency and high-risk sexual activity, thus leading to an increased risk of sexual transmitted diseases. There will also be a huge increased drug related deaths, also supporting my argument of a negative impact of the economy. (4) Now, drug advocates claim that the money used for drugs can be used for other things, as America spends billions of dollars for drug trafficking. However, this is the DEA’s response. “Ask legalization proponents if the alleged profits from drug legalization would be enough to pay for the increased fetal defects, loss of workplace productivity, increased traffic fatalities and industrial accidents, increased domestic violence and the myriad other problems that would not only be high-cost items but extremely expensive in terms of social decay” (5) Thus, further supporting my argument that drug use can lead to a Negative impact in the Economy. C.2 Drugs and crime Its really no surprise that if we legalize drugs, we will witness skyrocketing crime activities. Here are a few things that what drugs can do on the Public. (6) 80% of offenders abuse drugs or alcohol Nearly 50% of the criminals are clinically addicted Approximately 60% of the individuals arrested for most types of crimes test positive for drugs at arrest. This shows that drugs was the major contributor of the crime-if not the sole cause We need to break the chain of drugs, not make it stronger. This also shows that how drugs can cause a decline in GSP, as decline in GSP can be because of imprisonment. In this case, imprisonment is due to drugs. Therefore, it is indeed expected to see a decline in GSP. Many drug advocates believe that legalized drugs will lead to a decrease in auto theft, since the gangs will not have to steal drugs on other gang’s grounds. However, Opponents to legalization obviously do not see legalization as a panacea that will make crime go away. They see a clear connection between drug use and crime and, perhaps more importantly, between drug use and violence. Joseph Califano, the author and a member of President Johnson’s cabinet, stated: “Drugs like marijuana and cocaine are not dangerous because they are illegal; they are illegal because they are dangerous.” Speaking to a Congressional subcommittee on drug policy in 1999, Donnie Marshall, then deputy administrator of DEA, spoke of drug use, crime, and violence. He said that there is “a misconception that most drug-related crimes involve people who are looking for money to buy drugs. The fact is that most drug-related crimes are committed by people whose brains have been messed up with mood-altering drug” Legalization opponents are convinced that the violence caused by drug use “will not magically stop because the drugs are legal. Legal PCP isn’t going to make a person less violent than illegally purchased PCP.” Susan Neiberg Terkel echoes these sentiments by saying that legalizing drugs “cannot change human nature. It cannot improve the social conditions that compel people to engage in crime, nor can it stop people from using drugs as an excuse to be violent.” (5) Truly, we would see skyrocketing rates in criminal activity. Really, the federal government has no reason to legalize drugs as we will see skyrocketing rates in crime and a crash in the economy. C.3 Morality “The druggies are not impacting anyone else, therefore it is immoral to imprison them” I personally see this many times through drug arguments. However, as I have presented earlier, on balance we will see an increased crime rates, therefore harming the society as a whole and displaying a huge threat in regards to the general safety of the public. Really, on balance we are harming others as we are expected to see increased of crime rates. I will now display my points in bullet points to get my point accross easier. I. Mortality impacts on the user and loved ones The user will experience decreased acceptance rates into college or career jobs The user’s loved ones will go experience heartbreaks and a financially unstable family The user will be imprisoned due to possible criminal activities, as he/she will be greatly exposed to them II. Morality impacts on others The surrounding people in the crime will be injured, killed, or have stolen property The society will suffer as well, because it has lost a productive worker(s) Conclusion: From a federal standpoint, the government really has no reason to legalize drugs whatsoever. If we include the impacts on the economy, Public safety, and morality as a whole, there is really no reason to legalize drugs. Well thats all. On to you Pro Sources: http://www.businessinsider.com... http://www.dhhs.nh.gov... http://en.wikipedia.org... https://www.ncjrs.gov... http://www.policechiefmagazine.org... https://ncadd.org...	CON	81
81	S2671a90b-A9d5b71b7	The Death Penalty should be Abolished	"What has become clear in this debate is that your style has lead to huge amount of side tracking. I'm afraid that during this debate you have created a lot of red-herrings. Unfortunately for you, since I have been the only one who has provided arguments, this debate rests on those arguments and not on any content you have provided. In this way, I only actually need to prove 1 of those arguments (in the unlikely case that you nullify the other two). As a matter of fact, I am confident that my side has proven all three of my original arguments and thus shown that DP is wrong and therefore that it should be abolished. I have three points of contention: 1) Whether innocent people dying matters enough to concern advocates of DP 2) Whether Prison is a valid alternative 3) What society's moral outlook should be Since my second argument (that the execution is cruel and brutal) has not been tackled, you have automatically conceded that argument. In fact, you actually argued yourself that DP is deliberately painful and cruel. Thus I already meet the criteria for winning this debate. Contentious point 1: I have shown that innocent people do die. You agreed this was the case. Furthermore, I have explained that racism exists within the criminal justice system. Whether racism has a significant influence on it is a different debate. However, one or two racist incidents alone are enough to prove the claim that there is racism and other forms of prejudice. With that in mind, it follows that bias and thus injustice on the grounds of race exists. I provided you with 2 statistics reflecting a racial imbalance. What is for sure is that there are a number of influential factors that lead to that imbalance however since we know that racism exists in our society it follows that in some way shape or form and however small, racism will be a cause of that imbalance. Therefore, innocent people do die based on racial and other forms of bias. To deny this is utterly ridiculous. It is a kin to denying plain facts. Society is undoubtedly racist to an extent and therefore injustice exists. I don't understand how this is so hard to grasp. So, to an extent, DP is a manifestation of prejudice and therefore toxifies and exacerbates racial inequality to such extremes that the state literally kills on the grounds of race. This murder of innocents is a cause for concern. Next, not only did you give up your position that prisoners would cause violence, but you provided us with the argument of deterrent. There is absolutely no evidence that DP provides any deterrent whatsoever. No convincing multi-variable controlled studies have shown a tangible link between DP and deterring criminals. Rather, deprivation and prejudice are arguably much greater causes of high crime rates. By the same token, a tough prison sentence, which you even admitted to being awful (I think you have now contradicted yourself 3 times), should also act as a deterrent. You can't pick and choose. Based upon this analysis, you have no proof of a deterrent and so your hypothetical idea of ending up saving more lives is exactly that - a hypothetical idea. What we do know is that lots of people already die unfairly. You can't justify that. Therefore, my first argument passes. Innocents dying matters enough to end DP. Contentious point 2: You have contradicted yourself so many times concerning the nature of prison. You told us that prison had ""perks"" and that it really wasn't that bad. You then told us that prison was tough and that solitary confinement is cruel. However, you still argued the death penalty was worse. Now, my stance has been consistent. I have argued throughout that prisons are tough and therefore they are a punishment. We can adjust the sentence length and nature of the sentence to make it even tougher. I personally don't agree that prisoners should have forced servitude however that is not relevant. What is relevant is that prisons can be controlled by governments in order to meet the satisfaction of the public. If prison is not tough enough then you can make it even tougher. Yet, murdering criminals with the risk of killing innocents is not preferable as we can easily mitigate such a risk. For me, prison has more functions one of those is crime prevention as well. Ultimately, rehabilitation must be a part of prison life. Killing people removes a state's ability to create productive members of society. It takes time and effort but rehabilitating people can really help to fix social problems. People can change. Prison is a valid alternative and in a sense prison does have perks rather because it can help to improve the prisoners as people. Therefore, DP's faults are sufficient that the alternative of prison is more reasonable and viable such that we can abolish DP. Contentious point 3: I want to focus on probably the most important point in this debate and that is the notion of justice. What is justice? What makes a just society. I, like most people, consider justice to be a sense of moral righteousness. Thus in order to rationalise justice, we need to decide what kind of purpose justice would serve and what kind of future does society want. Justice serves a purpose. That purpose is to provide us with a moral and peaceful society in which human kind succeeds to its best possible standard as well as enjoying the most happiness. Thus we need to mitigate suffering. I ask how do we remove suffering from society. Not killing people in a painful way would be a good start. Furthermore, we in the place of government need to think about what message we pass on to people. State's are responsible to an extent for the authority it has and thus for the legacy that its actions have. Right now the state is a murderer - it kills people. What difference does the state have to a murderer if it is the biggest murderer of all? The message sent to citizens is that violence is acceptable. We brutalise society by having the death penalty. Furthermore, we remove the ability to fix the problems. We cannot save people by killing them but we can by rehabilitating them. DP removes the ability of the state to ever fix our society and to set an example. As a result, we condemn our future to one of violence. Abolishing DP is a step towards creating a moral and peaceful society and thus this is justice. If society thus considers justice in this way it is logical to abolish DP in order to build this society - a just society. In conclusion I have won this debate because I have provided 3 arguments as to why we should abolish the death penalty. I have shown that bias and other flaws in our system lead to innocent people dying and secondly why this is bad enough to abolish DP. I have also shown that the death penalty is cruel and painful and thus inhumane and thereof considering its further uselessness should be abolished. Finally, I have proven a tangible link between state murder and violence and why justice states that abolishing DP is a logical step to create a society we can all be truly proud of. You never addressed my second point and so automatically concede it. My other points are logical and are evidence based furthermore they are reflections on plain reality. You have provided no new content. Your argument was that DP is good because an eye for an eye. Just stating an eye for an eye is not an argument. Please explain why an eye for an eye is a moral standpoint rather than just making catchy sound-bites We know that, together, we can end the death penalty everywhere. Every day, people are executed and sentenced to death by the state as punishment for a variety of crimes "" sometimes for acts that should not be criminalized. In some countries, it can be for drug-related offences, in others it is reserved for terrorism-related acts and murder. Some countries execute people who were under 18 years old when the crime was committed, others use the death penalty against people with mental and intellectual disabilities and several others apply the death penalty after unfair trials "" in clear violation of international law and standards. People can spend years on death row, not knowing when their time is up, or whether they will see their families one last time. The death penalty is the ultimate cruel, inhuman and degrading punishment. I oppose the death penalty in all cases without exception - regardless of who is accused, the nature or circumstances of the crime, guilt or innocence or method of execution. The death penalty is a symptom of a culture of violence, not a solution to it. I urge the voters to make a fair decision. What kind of society do you want to live in? I want a society when the state is fair and just, where it punishes people humanely on behalf of all citizens and helps those punished to become better people. I don't want a society where the state murders on behalf of raw and emotional hatred behind this medical mantra of ""an eye for an eye"". Vote for what you know is right. Vote for a society that considers human life as valuable as it is redeemable. Vote Yes to Abolish the Death Penalty."	PRO	82
82	Sd257d98c-A2fbd7160	Child pornography should be legal to posses.	"Your claim that there is no such thing as a victimless crime is wrong, I will refute the examples you gave me one by one. Drugs do not hurt the taxpayers, the government does. While the taxpayers are the victim- who committed the theft, the drug abuser or the nanny state government? Why the government of course! CP increases the chances of a child being molested as much as photos of murder risk all of our lives, by making murders want to murder more..... Drunk driving should be legal, however the simple crime of 'wreckless driving' can easily hold back all offenses without any risk. If somebody is drunk and unable to drive properly, they are allowed to be arrested- however if somebody is sleeping in their car drunk they can not, as their driving was not wreckless. Possession of assault weapons harms nobody, and should be perfectly legal- unless those assault weapons are used to harm others, which is a very important part in my argument so I will deal with this issue separately later in the debate. Counterfeiting harms the taxpayers, all of them, by creating illegal artificial inflation (A mild form of theft), conspiracy harms whomever they are conspiring against, accessory to murder is DIRECTLY allowing the murder to murder, not something as simple as viewing his crimes. All of these are different from viewing photos of a crime, regardless of whether you get off on the photos or not. Viewing videos of people carrying assault rifles (and let's just say, shooting people) does not increase crime, you could arrest people for viewing these videos because you disapprove of the rifles, however, that would not help you cut down the crime of murder one bit. The murder rate does not increase because people are interested in watching this video, they're essentially separate. You seem to have misunderstood me, I said they have not committed a crime against a person, in other words, they did no personal harm to children. They committed a thoughtcrime, a crime against society rather than a crime against a child. The viewers of such material did not molest the child, the producer did (If somebody is caught with possession of CP, and it is clear that they are the abuser, they would obviously be charged with production / molestation / etc ). The producer is the person who violated the child, the perverted viewer of such activity is just that, a perverted viewer. You seem to believe that it is the governments duty to enforce morals. That is simply not true. While some may find other sexually deviant behavior immoral (Such as homosexuality, Bisexuality, ETC) it is not the governments job to regulate either of these either. True, CP is very different from homosexuality because generally another homosexual can consent; and a child can not.... but here is the key point. The person who went into the non-consensual relationship was not the viewer of the indecent material, it was the PRODUCER. While you may find pedophilia immoral, you have no right to punish pedophiles for having a sexual identity other than your own; unless they act on their urges and actually harm a child. Anything else would be thought crime. Please remember that I am not arguing whether or not CP is illegal, it is illegal, I am arguing that it SHOULD be legal. If this isn't the argument you are trying to make, saying ""doesn't make it any more legal"" puzzles me and leads me to believe you're using an argument from authority. This argument comes to whether the government has the right to punish thoughts and urges rather than focusing their efforts on those who actually abuse children. My opponent would rather focus efforts on going after the sexual perverts rather than the actual rapists. He claims to want to protect children from who would do harm, however he supports the arresting of people who have done children no harm whatsoever. You suggest that the very looking at this objectionable material is similar to, if not the same as, the actual molestation: this is clearly not true. If you are interested in protecting children while remaining just, you must allow people to possess child pornography, however sick you might find it to be. There are already laws covering the actual molestation of children, arresting even one person who has never made the move to actually harm a child is an injustice. Arresting people for the possibility of committing a crime is totally unjust, we might as well start arresting minority groups for the possibility of violent crime, viewers of violent movies for the possibility of violence, and viewers of other crimes, such as murder on the news, for those crimes as well. Might I appeal to the voters for a second: While you might find my argument offensive, please be sure to realize a few things. A. I do not support child molestation, it is wrong. B. I find those who view CP to be morally wrong, but I do not believe that I should punish those whom I disagree with morally for not standing by my points of view, and not following a perfect life. I believe that your right to swing your fists stops where my face begins, however perverted those fists might be swinging. Possessors of CP have not harmed anybody, the producers did. If the possessors are the producers, we obviously cant call them possessors and they should be charged as producers only. Demand for CP increases with more viewers as demand for murder increases with more photos of murder- they're largely unrelated. Nobody will decide to start molesting their child because there is a high demand for child molestation on the internet. C. I plead to you to vote objectively, not automatically shunning my argument because you find it objectionable, but voting on who you believe actually presented his argument best."	PRO	83
83	S564603a4-A58b8bfb1	The death penalty should exist.	"I challenge my friend Kryptic to this debate. Resolved: The death penalty should exist in the United States. Kryptic and I both share the onus, which is that I must prove that the death penalty should not exist whereas my opponent must prove it should. Whoever has more convincing/sound arguments wins this debate. We are both advocating for a change in the status quo in at least some areas of the US, so the onus is logically shared. Rules: 1. Maintain appropriate conduct 2. No trolling/kritiks/semantics/forfeits/etc. 3. Start in round one with arguments and waive the final round with something along the lines of ""round waived in compliance with rule 3"" 4. Keep debate structure Definitions: Death penalty: the punishment of execution, administered to someone legally convicted of a capital crime. should: ought to; must exist: continue to be in policy or come into policy Round structure: Round X: What con does | What pro does R1: Outline debate | Constructive arguments R2: Constructive arguments | Rebuttals R3: Rebuttals | Defense to rebuttals R4: Defense to rebuttals | Waive If you want me to change anything let me know. Thanks!"	CON	84
84	S564603a4-A8c4dc776	The death penalty should exist.	I didn't expect to have to do this, but something in my life has come up. I am going to have to forfeit this round, so I ask the voters to assign my opponent the conduct point. This is not a concession so it should not be voted on as one, I simply must forfeit this round. Thank you, Kryptic, for a thought provoking debate. We should have another when I am able to complete!	CON	85
85	S2671a90b-A35fc41	The Death Penalty should be Abolished	"""Unfortunately for you, since I have been the only one who has provided arguments, this debate rests on those arguments and not on any content you have provided."" You want me to make original arguments? Fine. 1)The death penelty is good for society because it forces murderers to expierience what they have done to others. Since a murderer destroyed not only the life of the person killed but also affected the family of the victim, the murderer has done irreversable harm to the family. Since they have committed irreversable harm to society, they must have irreversable harm put on them. 2)Life imprisionment is not as feisible because it is less painful than death. To live anyhow is better than to not live at all. My opponent thinks that I don't value life. However, given that I place someone's life as more important to them than time in prision, while my opponent doesn't, it seems that I reletively place life as higher than my prisioner does since I believe that having life, even if your inprisioned is better than not having it at all. 3)Innocents getting executed is rare and outnumbered by the homicide rate decrease that is made up. Given that 4% of executions are on an innocent person, it would just mean that the homicide rate would have to decrease by .04 per 100,000 in order to save more innocent life. Has this been done though? Yes. South Africa does not have the DP, Ethipia does and Ethiopia's homicide rate is much lower, despite SA being richer and less power hungry than Ethiopia. In fact, SA has the highest homicide rate in Africa, dispite it being so rich. This could be due to SA not having the DP. Anti DP Angola has a higher homicide rate than Pro DP Chad. Anti DP Columbia has a higher homicide rate than Pro DP Peru, GDP per capitas similar. Anti Death Penelty Greenland has a higher homicide rate than Pro DP USA. You thought the USA had a high homicide rate? WHat about Greenlands? This is when the US has an urbinization disadvantage. Anti DP Mongolia out murders Pro DP Kazikstan. I have provided 5 examples, 5 epitomes from a majority of the contenents of times where the DP saves more lives than it kills. I know Wikipedia isin't the most reliable source, but 3 wiki links are more reliable than a Left wing Canadian site that is my opponent's only source. https://en.wikipedia.org...(nominal)_per_capita https://en.wikipedia.org... https://en.wikipedia.org... My reasons for supporting DP are: 1) It forces murderers to expierience what they have done to others. 2)Life imprisionment is not as feisible because it is less painful than death. 3)The DP saves lives by reducing homicide. Time for what I do best in arguments, rebuttles: Next, my opponent claims that I did not rebuttal about the pain of DP. I said that the DP was carried out by lethal injection, which is painless, but I support more painful teqnicks since it is deserved. I argued, not why it's is painful, but why I think it should be. This is a different debate. This debate is about whether or not murderers should get executed at all. ""Society is undoubtedly racist to an extent and therefore injustice exists. I don't understand how this is so hard to grasp."" Black people could be killed innocently because they could be more likely to be convicted innocently because they could be at the wrong place at the wrong time due to the poverty that I hope they get out of on their own. ""Next, not only did you give up your position that prisoners would cause violence, but you provided us with the argument of deterrent."" If they are in solitary confinement, then they would not cause violence. However, solitary confinement is often cruel and unusual punishment. As a result, most wouldn’t exist, not even for murderers. However, if prisoners are allowed contact with other inmates, which inevitably happens, then violence could occur. Racism exists, but it only exists to a small and fringe extent within the justice system. It has way more to do with other factors then how much melanin is in your skin. Also, my opponent’s first claim was that innocent people are dying, but then made it mostly about race. If you had a race argument, save it for a different bullet point. I was saying that it was bad, but not as bad as many think. It’s like saying a job at McDonalds has perks (I don’t know if that’s true). If someone said that they aren’t inherently saying that it is a good place to work, they may believe the opposite, but they may think that it is a bad job with perks. You said something that would hurt your argument though. You said, “What is relevant is that prisons can be controlled by governments in order to meet the satisfaction of the public.” Most Americans support the death penalty for murder. According to this quote, it is saying that murderers should be killed since that’s how most of the public wants them to be treated. We need to mitigate some suffering, not all suffering. If we were to aim to eliminate suffering, even amongst criminals, then they would get sent to a paradise island away from everyone else. They would have cops watching them to prevent fights. However, this is ridiculous because some suffering is good. You suffer when you study for a test. You suffer as a punishment so you won’t compete the same bad task multiple times. You suffer restitution fees if you eliminate something that’s not yours. You should pay restitution with your life if you eliminate a human life that is not yours. “I have shown that bias and other flaws in our system lead to innocent people dying and secondly why this is bad enough to abolish DP.” Your argument is mostly biased. If is very emotional. Although I have some emotion in mine, I try to put facts that are objective. You only cited once in your 4 arguments, and it was to a biased source. I cited 13 times to an eclectic amount of relevant sources. I ironically cite my debate as proof of that(http://www.debate.org...). “Please explain why an eye for an eye is a moral standpoint rather than just making catchy sound-bites” My opponent accuses me of just rebuttling, but now they ask me to rebuttle. So be it. An eye for an eye is a just way of measuring punishment because it is proportional. If I break someone’s IPAD deliberatly, it would be great if I apologized, but An eye for an eye would say that I would have to buy a new IPAD, not even pay the money for an IPAD, but to buy a new IPAD, since buying something requires work. This translates to murder. If one murders, then they must pay it back with their life since that is what they took. You reap what you sow. If you reap murder, then you sow execution. “In some countries, it can be for drug-related offences, in others it is reserved for terrorism-related acts and murder.” Drug offenses are not worthy of the death sentence. Murder (including murder from terrorism) is worthy of the DP. “Some countries execute people who were under 18 years old when the crime was committed, others use the death penalty against people with mental and intellectual disabilities” Age and disability status should not be relevant as to whether or not the person receives the death sentence. If Osama Bin Laden was a 10 year old kid who did the terrorism he did at that age, I would still want him killed. Just because your mind is not fully developed does not excuse you from the consequences of your actions. “People can spend years on death row, not knowing when their time is up, or whether they will see their families one last time.” This is good because it gives the court system time to seperate the guilty from the innocent. THis saves innocent lives. “What kind of society do you want to live in? I want a society when the state is fair and just, where it punishes people humanely on behalf of all citizens and helps those punished to become better people. I don't want a society where the state murders on behalf of raw and emotional hatred behind this medical mantra of ""an eye for an eye"".” You are being more emotional than I am."	CON	86
86	S99be9510-A67d95120	Should juveniles be tried as adults	Because you are young when committing a crime should you be held responsible for your actions	PRO	87
87	S54b181c-Ae21acdb9	School Uniform Should Be Banned	School uniform should definitely be banned for many reasons. First of all, pupils should be able and should be encouraged to express themselves and be creative with what they wear. Everyone wearing the same uniform takes away their individuality and the right to be able to wear whatever they want. Own clothes are more comfortable and in the cold, school uniforms aren't warm enough. Surely we can wear badges to say which school we are from, especially on school trips! If we are comfortable wearing our own clothes in class we should be able to focus better in class. School uniform can be very expensive as compared to our own clothes as well as if not washed quick enough it can pose a real problem. No matter what you dress students who bully others will always find a reason to do so. Making everyone wear the same clothes is not going to make the problem magically disappear. To conclude, students wearing their own clothes will be able to express themselves, show individuality and spend less money.	PRO	88
88	S7ad5a1f-A4e80ca82	Death penalty should be allowed	"People who are threats to the innocent should be stopped but putting them into prison doesn't really solve what they did to the innocent not only that but it cost, 760,000 a year . They shouldn't be allowed to live if they killed someone. They should get what they deserve. It's just like the golden rule . "" treat others the way you want to be treated"". If you kill someone, then you should get punished for your actions."	PRO	89
89	S564603a4-Ac440a745	The death penalty should exist.	"Thank you, my friend. In this round, I will provide rebuttals to your R1 case. Let's get into this! Criteria for Death Penalty That is an interesting list that you have compiled, and I like your thinking. However, this isn't what is currently in place as the death penalty and is essentially unrelated to this debate. What I mean by this is that you are holding up your side of the status quo, not changing it. The most popular punishment for states without the death penalty that want an intense penalty would be life in prison without any possibility of parole. Under this method, nobody can possibly find loop-holes to eventually get back into normal society because under law they cannot ever enter it. This would mean that the death penalty isn't necessary because it can be addressed by life in prison. Also, the idea of executing people that refuse psychological help is immoral at its core and is currently illegal. The insane (or mentally ill) cannot be executed, for it is unconstitutional [1]. The criteria that you mentioned are not really objective enough for law, nor are they even constitutional, so we cannot weigh these. Compliance with Law I agree that we all, whether we know it or not, sign up for laws to be applied to us and that we must comply with the law or face punishment. And I wholeheartedly agree that murder, rape, abuse are all terrible terrible crimes that should never be allowed in any type of society. However, the crux of your argument is that criminals get to live a good life if they are able to live, and they are able to re-commit crimes. I would think that anyone reading this argument would agree that prison is not a good place in the US. There is a lot of rape [2], there is almost slavery for prisoners [3], and that it is entirely undesirable [no citation needed]. By saying that these prisoners are able to live a happy life with luxury is a very big exaggeration. Part of your argument is that prisoners will be able to recommit offenses that they got in for. However, the alternative to the death penalty is life in prison without possibility of parole, which is the legal way of saying ""no givesies backsies"", in which the prisoner can never enter society. If we don't allow them to go back into society and cause even more harm, we are increasing the value of society as a whole, and that is a great thing. The death penalty is not the only way to keep them from recommitting, and from the harms of the death penalty as I stated above, we simply cannot allow it. [1]. http://en.wikipedia.org... [2]. http://en.wikipedia.org... [3]. http://www.alternet.org... I am sorry for a shorter round, I hand it back to pro."	CON	90
90	S712e9d27-A9aa8c55	The United States should decriminalize drugs.	Resolved: The United States Federal Government should decriminalize drugs. This debate is the first round of Bsh1's summer tournament. If Emilrose would like to change any of the definitions, rules, or structure, she can PM/comment on the debate. I've asked her to not accept the debate (or at least post her acceptance in R1) until August 4th. I will not have time to work on this from Thursday-Monday, so delaying it would help me on this. Only Bsh's pre-approved judges will determine who advances as far as the tournament is concerned, but anyone can vote. Structure: Round 1: Acceptance Round 2: Constructive (No rebuttals) Round 3: Rebuttals Round 4: Case Defense/Closing Arguments Definitions: USFG- United States Federal Government should- compelled to do something as it is the best path of action decriminalize- to change the current laws so that drug users are not given prison sentences drugs- often illegal substance that can cause addiction, habituation, or a marked change in consciousness Rules: 1. No new arguments in the final round. 2. No kritiks of the resolution. 3. No counterplans. 4. No trolling. 5. No semantics. 6. No forfeits. 7. BoP is shared, resolution must be looked at on balance. If any of these rules are violated the offender loses the debate. Thank you and good luck, may the best debater win!	PRO	91
91	Sfe78c1c3-A21d60873	Dueling should be legalized	"""Dueling"" is defined as ""an arranged engagement in combat between two consenting individuals with matched weapons in accordance with agreed-upon rules."" I will argue in favor of this up to, and including, the death of participants. Structure: Round 1 - Acceptance. Round 2 - Debaters state their case. Round 3 - Debaters rebut one another's cases made in Round 2. Round 4 - Debaters defend their cases against rebuttals made in Round 3. Round 5 - Debaters make closing statements, argue as to why voters should select them."	PRO	92
92	S54b181c-Af9e1df8c	School Uniform Should Be Banned	"Thanks for responding so quickly. During this round I'm going to be refuting your R1 points, and in the next round I'm going to be defending my own case from attacks that you've made, if you made any. ----- Rebuttals: ""First of all, pupils should be able and should be encouraged to express themselves and be creative with what they wear"" First, what is more important: having the ability to wear a t-shirt, or having the ability to deter crime massively? Second, you will still have the ability to decorate your clothes in moderation. Obviously you cannot scorch weed leaves into your outfit, but if you want to tuck up your sleeves or wear your hair a certain way, or have a certain bow, then that should be okay. School uniforms do not diminish the outlet for creativity. ""Own clothes are more comfortable and in the cold, school uniforms aren't warm enough"" The definition of school uniforms isn't cold, miserable clothing, it's just a strict set of guidelines for someone to wear at school. Wear your own clothes in the cold! Nobody is keeping you from doing that! But once you are in school, you should just wear the uniforms, since they have so many advantages. ""Surely we can wear badges to say which school we are from, especially on school trips!"" wat.png ""If we are comfortable wearing our own clothes in class we should be able to focus better in class."" I don't really like being that guy, but what's your source for this? I have a card in my case that says that uniforms actually INCREASE productivity and attentiveness during class, so we must render your argument invalid. ""School uniform can be very expensive as compared to our own clothes as well as if not washed quick enough it can pose a real problem."" Not if the school pays for them, which I suggest to every single school that is considering having uniforms. ""No matter what you dress students who bully others will always find a reason to do so"" Look at my third contention, then get back to me with this argument. But seriously,60% less bullying occurs as a direct result of implementing uniforms. Tell me that isn't good... ""Making everyone wear the same clothes is not going to make the problem magically disappear."""	CON	93
93	S872162b1-A70ccc094	Resolved: The US should abolish capital punishment.	"Much has been said of justice in this debate, and it is a crucial element to this debate. Fortunately, a clear answer has been established--that the DP in principle is perfectly just, and that its consequence is the betterment of our society. DP Morality and Innocent Lives Let us reiterate our arguments, while dispelling the mist Pro has created. Our argument for the justice of the DP has been straightforward. We presented a framework for examining the rights of criminals, that ""those who do not respect the rights of others forfeit their own rights"". Pro's initial response was incoherent--that it would be ""hypocritical"" to do so because we'd be infringing on criminals' rights. However, we established that criminals had no rights, and Pro never attempted to demonstrate otherwise. Thus, the morality of the DP hinges upon not criminals (who have no rights), but upon innocent lives that may be taken. We thus noted that there must be an assumption that rights of innocent people would be violated in any criminal justice system. The magnitude of such violations is irrelevant, because Pro agrees in principle that they are an unavoidable part of any such system, and yet still considers violations just for the sake of the greater good, and as such, what matters is not the severity of violations of the rights of innocents, but the benefit that increased severity brings to society relative to the harms. We have shown that the benefit of the DP--deterrence, saves many more lives than any wrongful executions destroy (no more than 4% of executions of innocents vs. 3-18 lives saved per execution), and Pro has provided no concrete alternative metric for assessing justice. Thus, you must favor our interpretation. Injustices and Justice for All This brings us to the implementation of the DP. We demonstrated that many of Pro's issues with the DP were not about the DP at all; rather, they were about a failed justice system in the US. Our counterplan to the crisis of poor defenses--hiring more public defenders and investigators--should have been obviously implied, given that we spent the entire time mentioning the problem of a lack of defenders and the consequences it caused, but if this is ignored on the basis of implicitness (which would be wrong), we still win on this point. We still win because we don't need solvency to demonstrate that the merits of the DP cannot be addressed through indirect issues not attributable to the DP itself. The DP doesn't cause bias or any of the other problems Pro mentions, and for that reason, they are irrelevant to a discussion of the DP itself. Eliminating the DP would not solve for bias, nor would it reduce the extent to which it exists. We are having a discussion about the a priori merits of the DP in the US, and for this reason, you must reject Pro's assault and give the point to us. This same principle applies to Pro's recidivism argument--the DP has 0% recidivism. Pro's argument that somehow the existence of people ""beyond saving"" means that we can't rehabilitate others is absurd--they provide no link, and we showed that one can accept Pro's counter-plan of a rehabilatory system and still accept the DP, by executing the worst criminals and rehabilitating the rest. As well, we addressed Pro's torture point in two ways--1) It is irrelevant to what is right because criminals have no rights, and 2) torture isn't torture if it is accidental. Deterrence We are finally at the point of weighing the costs and benefits of the DP, which, as we have shown, this debate hinges upon. Let us begin with examining deterrence. Pro completely drops our point that even crimes of passion are subject to rationality. This is of massive importance, because even if there are certain people that the DP doesn't deter, it is still proven that it does, in fact, deter to a significant degree. Pro's source provides no information about what percentage of crimes are actually committed by the mentally ill or those under the influence of drugs. A little over 50% of inmates are mentally ill, and according to the BJS, about 80% of drug users in jail were also mentally ill (2). As about 30% of crimes were under the influence of drugs (2), that leaves us with: 50% mentally ill + 30% of crimes under the influence * 20% of drug users not mentally ill, to remove them from being counted a second time = ~56% of criminals are drug users or mentally ill. Pro doesn't explain how they are exempt from our evidence in support of rational choice even in irrational actors, which was not criticized and thus holds, but even if you accept Pro's logic this still leaves significant room for deterrence; indeed, given that Pro has accepted that deterrence exists and is prominent, saving on average 3-18 lives per execution in states where people are actually executed, our point holds. Pro's demonstration that the DP only deters people when there are a few executions proves only that, shockingly, the DP actually has to be used to be effective. Pro's article on in-prison homicide and assault does not demonstrate causation, and thus fails. Homicide rates are already higher in those jurisdictions. This very source mentions that the murder rate in DP jurisdictions was ""25-46% higher than states without the [DP]"" (3). Those rates, given the evidence of deterrence we provided, would be even higher if not for the death penalty. Furthermore, as our point that criminals have no rights holds, the problem would not be an issue even if it existed, because no violation of rights in in-prison homicides occurs. Conclusion This debate hinged on two points: justice and cost-benefit analysis. We showed that the DP is not unjust, as criminals forfeit their rights and harm to innocents is an inevitable part of any justice system. Pro never contested the former point, and provided no reason why the latter had to be minimized. We demonstrated that the DP deters between 3-18 murders in states where people are actually executed, while Pro has little evidence other than psychological stress of criminals, which is already irrelevant by our first point. Don't lose the forest for the trees; we've shown that the DP saves lives and is perfectly just. The innocent should not die to save the lives of the guilty. Thanks to our opponents for this debate. Sources: 1. http://www.theatlantic.com... 2. http://www.bjs.gov... 3. https://www.aclu.org..."	PRO	94
94	Sa3c027ad-Aef188cdc	The United States Federal Government's War on Drugs should be ended.	"This is my first drug debate, I have enjoyed it :) ""In fact, many countries see reduction in drug abuse after decriminalizing laws on particular drugs"" The rate of current, past 30-day use of marijuana by Americans aged 12 and older in 1979 was 13.2 percent. In 2008 that figure stood at 6.1 percent. This 54-percent reduction in marijuana use over that 29-year period is a major public health triumph, not a failure. [1] During our drug war there has been huge decreases. Also the dutch already had low drug rates before the legalization. If drugs where legilized their demand would usually go up: It’s clear from history that periods of lax controls are accompanied by more drug abuse and that periods of tight controls are accompanied by less drug abuse. [2] So taxing it actually raises users. .The consequences of legalization became evident when the Alaska Supreme Court ruled in 1975 that the state could not interfere with an adult’s possession of marijuana for personal consumption in the home. [2] Although the ruling was limited to persons 19 and over, teens were among those increasingly using marijuana. According to a 1988 University of Alaska study, the state’s 12 to 17-year-olds used marijuana at more than twice the national average for their age group. Alaska’s residents voted in 1990 to recriminalize possession of marijuana, demonstrating their belief that increased use was too high a price to pay. [2] illegilizing it loweed user rate, allowing it rose user rate. We can win the drug war without resorting to legalization, as shown by the consistent decrease in drug use from 1979 and 1992. [3] ""The sum also most likely includes the $110 billion ""lost"" to job productivity, even though my opponent tries to recreate this as a separate contention."" It would hurt the economy: It would cost society 140-210 billion dollars a year if it was legilized. [4] The #1 medical problem in the US is substance abuse [5] I have proven legilizie would = more users, so allowing it would raise ER and mediaid costs, hurting the tax payer. ""My opponent claims that drug abuse costs so much money to American society, but the important question is, how?"" 1, lowers users 2. in turn lower ER costs 3. in turn as that would lower aggrivasion rates 4. in turn helping the economy 5. in turn less junkies A few billion spread out beetween 300,000,000 people isn't much of a tax. Also it benifits them so what the heck. ""My opponent also failed to address my concerns of the economic loss of jailing non-violent offenders, which includes both the cost of prison and the loss of production later in life and can lead to more damage to society by creating criminals."" I never saw it until now, but many f them (when on drugs are violent) : Chronic marijuana use, especially in a very young person, may also be a marker of risk for mental illnesses - including addiction - stemming from genetic or environmental vulnerabilities, such as early exposure to stress or violence. [6] Some users will increase their dose in an attempt to intensify and prolong the euphoria, but this can also increase the risk of adverse psychological or physiological effects. [7] (this was for cocaine) Long-term use can lead to mood disturbances, violent behavior, anxiety, confusion, insomnia, and severe dental problems. [8] (for meth) So drug usage leads to violence so if those people stayed on the drug because it was legal then they WOULD become violent. Also you mentioned the drug cartelles. Legalization would not stop them: Unfortunately, it’s not that easy. Marijuana legalization has many merits, but it would do little to hinder the long-term economics of the cartels — and the violent toll they take on Mexican society. [9] it would not stop them. Also only a small percentag of people in jail are drug offenders: Actually, only 5 percent of inmates in federal prison on drug charges are incarcerated for drug possession. [10] ""My opponent's examples of where we can't do anything we want with our bodies miss the point."" It IS the point. If drugs where legal people would be allowed to do it anywhare, smokers smoke on the roads, alchohilcs drink on the streets. If it wa slegalized people would do it anywhere. You say ""in the home"" you never specified this. So techincally they theoratically (and would) do it in the streets. So my remarks about doing it publicly still stand. It is also not a right as it infinges other peoples lifes, the family, the person. Now how does it do it? The increased aggression and other problems affect others and infinge upon their rights. So why let it be a right if it takes aways rights to others? It is not a right. [11] Also 90% pf reported child abusers are drug users too. [12] ""His drugs promotes crime"" I have some sources from some of the most credible people in this argument on this issue, but let's go with other ones: Substance-abusing youth are at higher risk than nonusers for mental health problems, including depression, conduct problems, personality disorders, suicidal thoughts, attempted suicide, and suicide. [13] It mentions conduct problems. A study conducted in 1988 in Washington, D.C., found youth who sold and used drugs were more likely to commit crimes than those who only sold drugs or only used drugs. [13] ""unintended consequences"" I have proven drugs make people more suseptable to do crime, therefore legalization would raise crime. So legalizing it won't help. Also I showed legalizing it woudl not end the drug cartells. Legalization would hve little or no effects on crime, orit would raise crime. =conclusion= The war on drugs should continue, there is no right to drugs, it is benificial, it lowers user, and legalizing it would hurt many other things. Also The war on drugsdoes EVERYTHING it was meant to do, lower users. sources: http://www.cnbc.com... [1] http://www.justice.gov... [2] http://www.gargaro.com... [3] U.S. Department of Justice, Drug Legalization 32. [4] Substance Abuse: The Nation's Number One Health Problem, Institute for Health Policy, Brandeis University, prepared for The Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey, October 1993: 8-16. [5] http://www.drugabuse.gov... [6] http://www.drugabuse.gov... [7] http://www.drugabuse.gov... [8] http://www.nytimes.com... [9] http://www.justice.gov... [10] U.S. Department of Justice, Drug Legalization 57. [11] U.S. Department of Justice, Drug Legalization 57. [12] http://www.ojjdp.gov..."	CON	95
95	Sd257d98c-Ab02efee8	Child pornography should be legal to posses.	Hi, and thanks for accepting this debate challenge. Might I make it perfectly clear to anybody reading this that I am not in support of child pornography, nor the production of child pornography. I strongly believe that abuse like the production of CP should come with punishment. My debate is on the topic of the possession of child pornography. While the possessors of Child Pornography may be sick, wrong, and perverted they are realistically doing nothing to harm anybody. They are not harming the child by simply viewing the material in any real way, the harm that may actually come out of the viewing of this material is caused by the producer- not the viewer. Viewers of Child Pornography will not necessarily molest children in the future, just as those who drink a sip of liquor do not necessarily go on killing sprees. While I believe it is wrong, and objectionable I believe that CP should be legal to possess only.	PRO	96
96	Sd76b3024-A6812fefb	LSD should be legal under license	"Those three reasons are pointless as they hardly indicate danger at all. No one has ever become an LSD addict in the sense that they feel the have to have LSD. No one would want to trip everyday all day long. Why does a more potent dosage cause more danger. There is 0% of overdosing. Just because its exciting doesnt mean its dangerous. Donuts are exciting, exercise is exciting. LSD users know what they are taking and the side effects it has. Just because its labeled an adverse affect doesn't mean its not a intended effect. Many people of the psychedelic community would have a goal of achieve ego death or becoming nothingness. According to Halpern (2003) HPPD isnt even statistically relevant because it has such a low prevalence. These other drugs you listed have had proven dangers to a much greater state than LSD such as real physical and mental addiction, dementia, blackouts, harm to others. Much of the same effects that have been misrepresented for LSD but only on untested and unproven theories. Since LSD is so restricted and classed on the same level as heroin and even an higher level than methamphetamine or cocaine, that it is very hard to even give it a fair test or experiment. Far more lives have been ruined by these prescribed drugs than LSD (per captia). In saying that all these other famous discoveries where just accidents is conjecture. Sure someone may have done all this without LSD but with those people actually saying that it helped them that is the most logical answer we have. And saying that LSD is dangerous and people are going to lose their minds and hurt people is just fear mongering. There have been only under 50 confirmed cases of LSD related deaths in the world. This is with the people who already take LSD even though its illegal, the demand will always be there. Whether illegal or not people will always have access to the drug. Making it legal only heightens safety in the way or eliminated drug deals and teaching people safety classes. Why would people buy something that is NEVER peaceful, hundreds of thousands of people use LSD and only 4% of them say it has effected their life negatively. People also reported that out of their entire history only 5% had ever had a bad trip. As with alcohol, driving and firearms people with still do these things without the proper authority but licenses help keep it as safe as possible. You make this point yet that is exactly what is happening now. Legalising only makes it safer. Just because its legalised doesn't mean it would make more people try it. If someone is going to want to try something the law isn't going to stop them when its so hard to police and hundreds of thousands of people get away with it. Now lets ask ourselves about the real issue of legalisation. Possession of LSD penalty can range from 6 months to 5 years and trafficking can range from 5 years to a death sentence. You have to really ask yourself if its right to end a human beings life over selling a consenting adult something they want that leads to happiness, introspection and makes peoples lives better. Even at the very minimum a jail sentence means you lose your job, criminal record, family troubles, financial troubles, trouble ever looking for a job, stigma and the fact you have to spend years of your life in prison. These ""criminals"" have to spend years in prison because they willing choose to alter their body in the very same fashion as alcohol or a tattoo. There is no plaintiff. No one reported this crime. There is no victim. https://www.dmt-nexus.me... http://articles.mercola.com... http://www.erowid.org... http://bja.oxfordjournals.org... http://www.legalmatch.com..."	PRO	97
97	Sb2c5f871-A588e8e09	Solitary Confinement Use Should be Reduced and Elimanted	"My proposal is to first reduce the amount of use, while also making the conditions less harmful, and then eliminating the practice in the future. (I am thinking many years, between 5 and 10.) These negative psychological effects can occur in as little as ten days, though some sources have suggested it can be even sooner than this. (See previous round for source on ten day mark) ""To summarize, there is not a single published study of solitary or supermax-like confinement in which nonvoluntary confinement lasting for longer than 10 days, where participants were unable to terminate their isola- tion at will, that failed to result in negative psychological effects. The damag- ing effects ranged in severity and included such clinically significant symp- toms as hypertension, uncontrollable anger, hallucinations, emotional breakdowns, chronic depression, and suicidal thoughts and behavior."" (Haney, 2003) And I do agree that these conditions and methods are meant to punish the inmate, however what I am proposing is that it is more harmful to society than helpful. The point of punishing these individuals is to lessen the chance of recidivism, or to deter further offenses from other inmates. However, I have shown, with research to back my statements, that SC does not reduce recidivism and could possibly increase recidivism. (See previous rounds) There is also no evidence to suggest that it has any effect on future offenses by other individuals. I agree that offenders should hold responsibility for their actions, however that is suggesting that all offenders are in SC for crimes. Some are in their for their own safety, some are in their for violating prison rules (some as small as not making their bed.) (My previous example of someone in SC for 16 years is an example of this.) Even some are thrown in there from the start of their prison sentence only to be proven innocent later. Also prisoners are not usually placed in SC for violent or ""heinous crimes.""In some jurisdictions, the majority of people in disciplinary segregation do not pose a threat to staff or other prisoners, but are placed in segregation for minor rule infractions."" (Coud, 2015) I propose that we find a different punishment for offenders that are found guilty of an offense, other than SC. SC holds no benefits for society and punishing an offender for vengeance alone is a waste of time and money. ""According to figures compiled by the ACLU of Colorado, in 2010 it cost $14,933 to $21,485 more per inmate, per year to hold someone in administrative segregation in the state’s supermax prisons than in a regular maximum security prison ($42,642-$48,403 vs. $26,918 to $27,709). With 1,400 prisoners in administrative segregation statewide, the additional annual cost of solitary confinement in Colorado that year exceeded $20 million. "" (Solitary Watch) Simply saying that they should follow the law is a true statement, however it doesn't change the fact that SC is inefficient, ineffective, and harmful to society as well as the individual. Concluding Statement: My opponent has suggested that Solitary Confinement fulfills its purpose of punishing offenders and also suggests that this will cause the offender to be less likely to offend in the future. However I have provided evidence that this is a failed argument. SC is more likey to cause recidivism than it is to prevent it. It is also more likely to cause violence in prisons, (Gordon, 2014,) and cause or exacerbate mental illness in the prisoner that is put into SC. Solitary confinement is causing more problems than it is solving in our society and we cannot keep it simply as a punitive or vengeful measure. This is why I propose that we began phasing out SC in a controlled manner before eventually eliminating it from prisons in the United States. I would like to thank my opponent for having a reasonable, strong argument and providing sources when it was necessary. Thank you for this debate and I appreciate your viewpoints and am glad to have heard them. Have a good day. www.solitarywatch.com (not sure where on the website, I got the PDF from a database) Mental Health Issues in Long-Term Solitary and ""Supermax"" Confinement, Craig Haney, 2003, Crime and Delinquency, January"	PRO	98
98	Sd257d98c-A3717e990	Child pornography should be legal to posses.	"Thanks for accepting my debate rwebberc. For all of those of you who plan to vote on this debate I must ask you to objectively look at both of our arguments and vote based on who you think honestly won this debate. I understand this is a controversial topic and it is a strong possibility that some of you might immediately vote, assuming I am incorrect without even reading my arguments, but please at least give me a fighting chance before saying I lost. My opponent wrongfully assumes that for me to believe possession of child pornography to be legal, child molestation should as well. This assumption is boldly incorrect, even by his own statistics and reasoning. The CP industry is a special industry in many respects. Firstly, while most products demand increases drastically as price moves closer to zero (Such as, for example, holywood movies. If free DVD's were being given away for popular movies, a very large number of people would try to get them, depending on the circumstances). However, when CP is distributed a very small amount of people are interested in it- even if the price is zero. Secondly, as most modern CP (By your own argument) is distributed over the Internet, thusly, even with relatively high demand- scarcity is almost impossible, and does not come with more people desiring it. Furthermore, most people would be absolutely repulsed by the very idea of CP and not seek it if it were legal, I suggest that the occurrences of CP would hardly be effected at all. Look at other black market industries, like those of drugs and prostitution. Going after the possessors (Or johns) stops a very small amount of people, and barely puts a dent in the demand. In fact, it effects demand so lightly that it hardly takes a hit. However, when the supply is taken down the supplier is unable to supply his or her multiple clients. When the US invaded Afghanistan Opioid production dropped significantly, they did this by removing the supply- not the millions upon millions of opioid abusers. Lastly, CP is arguably not an industry. Typically, for something to be considered an industry, it has to be a ""Commercial enterprise"". CP has very few instances of commercial production, and in my research a majority of the arrests are for production at home for distribution on the internet, though IRC, P2P, FTP, and the like- not commercial production. It would not be logical to think that if less people were getting arrested for CP possession people would decide ""Maybe I SHOULD molest my kids, after all, I can get 10 people to download my file on the internet when I could only previously get 7!"" By your own statistic, 60% of arrests have never sexually victimized a single child. Meaning 60% of those arrested are totally innocent, and have not committed a crime where there has been a victim. These people are not out molesting children, they're looking at (albeit disturbing) images. We already have laws covering the molestation of children, it would be far more logical to go after the actual molesters than /potential/ molesters. It is somewhat comparable to outlawing pornography to prevent prostitution, or perhaps rape. Outlawing something for the slight possibility of somebody ALSO doing something illegal while doing something legally innocent is against Liberty. In some areas, Black people tend to commit more crimes than whites. Does that mean we should round up all black persons into jails, for having a /possibility/ of committing crimes in the future? Should we round up those who view pornography for the /possibility/ that they will later rape? Should we round up those who drink for the possibility that they may commit violence? Should we outlaw guns, for the possibility that they will be used unjustly? No- there are laws against all of these behaviors already, we do not need to throw innocent people into the mix. Fantasies are just that- fantasies. Outlawing fantasies is thought crime at best. There are already laws preventing child sexual abuse without throwing innocent fantasizers into the mix. Do Pedophiles necessarily commit sexual crimes against children? You would think so- but many sexual abusers are situational abusers rather than pedophiles. I disagree that sexual abuse has risen 1500% since 1988, it is much more likely that it is now easier for (1) the abused to report their crimes to the police, due to social change. and (2) police to catch (and notice) sexual abuse, as as you said it might be posted on the net rather than in photographs. Police no longer need informants, they just need to get into the net- find it, and prosecute. While convicted pedophiles may claim that pornography may have helped them lead to molesting children, it does not necessarily go the other way. In other words, viewing such does not necessarily make you a sexual abuser- it just makes you a viewer. I'm sure most rapists are fueled by hard core pornography- yet hard core pornography is still legal.... why? Because of choice. People, upon viewing child pornography (or hard core pornography) have committed thought crime by the viewing of it, but have only committed actual crime when they CHOOSE to act on these fantasies. A fantasy is perfectly alright, many people have many different kinds of fantasies- some of them more main stream, and some of them absolutely 'weird'- however, unless those fantasies transcend into real life- in which another person is harmed, they have not caused any harm and should not be punished."	PRO	99
99	Sfe78c1c3-A7cf96cc2	Dueling should be legalized	"I must say that you have introduced me to certain concepts that I now wish to explore more thoroughly, and that is much appreciated. I'll be very brief here as this is just for a conclusion and I can't introduce new arguments or rebuttals: I believe that the most significant argument I had to make was in regards to rights, and I don't believe my opponent was able to sufficiently refute that. I wasn't satisfied that a clear line was drawn in terms of what places dueling into a separate category than the wide variety of legal but ""harmful"" activities and behaviors we touched upon. I also believe I refuted the objection that if states provide services, individuals should therefore be ethically or legally obligated to modify their behaviour on the basis of being subjected to these services that they did not elect to receive. I also believe that, although my opponent had some very cogent points more broadly, he made a number of arguments from analogy that were not sufficiently relevant or similar to the scenarios they were intended to criticize, and that I was able to point this out and refute them. Thanks to JCDenton for participating and thanks to anyone else who reads or votes on this."	PRO	100
100	S965182df-A8a2a73a4	All drugs should be legalized.	I also would like to apologize for such a late response. I am not going to go too much into rebuttals, as I have already done so in the previous round. However, I will bring up one quick point. Potency does not equal necessary equal usage. This my opponent’s closing remarks, and I will also have a couple of points for the conclusion. The definition of potency is the power to affect the mind or body, not necessarily equals usage. Now it is true that riots have been made due to some degree of prohibition of alcohol (1). And if done on a national scale, the riots would be catastrophic. However, that is one of the reasons NOT to legalize drugs. If drugs are legalized, there is no going back. Even the slightest prohibition may lead to absolute turmoil within the riot crowds, and they may be even larger. Mainly because drugs such as cocaine and meth are highly addictive and if there is a slight prohibition, there is going to be serious anger. It is best if we do not present drugs in the public solely for that reason. However, my economic and federal standpoints in regards to GDP, worker productivity, cost and crime still stand. My closing remarks are that taking all these points in mind (economic and federal standpoints in regards to GDP, worker productivity, cost and crime) along with a huge possibility of social decay, drugs are best to stay illegal. However, I agree that drug laws should be toned down and we should be looking for a cure. Again, as I stated before that would be a compromise to legalization. Or if my opponent puts it “an alternative”. This has been a pleasure debating with my opponent, and I wish him best of luck. I have learned quite a lot, and hopefully my opponent has too. However, I encourage to the audience not to take drugs! 1.http://www.surfermag.com...	CON	101
101	Sd257d98c-A9ed88504	Child pornography should be legal to posses.	"I agree with my opponent that this debate should be judged based on the arguments, not the viewpoint each debater is representing. Let me also point out that my opponent believes that drunk driving and the possession of dangerous and unnecessary assault weapons should be legal. You will not find a country in the world where drunk driving is legal. This should give you insight into his skewed logic. Also, his claim about conspiracy is weak. Conspiracy to commit murder or terrorism does not harm anyone; it is the act of murder or terrorism which harms them. Just as viewing CP doesn't ""harm"" anyone, the act of producing it does. Someone might be conspiring to murder me right now, but I don't know because it doesn't directly impact me. Perhaps my opponent believes this should be legal as well? The difference between CP and a video of a murder is that the tape of the murder wasn't made explicitly for the enjoyment of its viewers. The murder was going to occur anyway, and the cameraman either happened to see it or wanted it as proof that the murder occurred (i.e. Budd Dwyer, Daniel Pearl). If there were a wide demand for murder videos for people's sexual fantasies, I think we would see a different attitude towards them. My opponent's argument centers upon these two points: 1. Possessing CP does not harm any specific person; the damage has been done by the producer 2. However perverted we may think sexual fantasies about children may be, possessors of CP have the right to these fantasies I have already argued about the dangers of allowing people to view these images, as they often lead to the viewer physically abusing a child. However, I will now address these claims from a different perspective. Each and every time a CP image is viewed, that child is victimized again. The lives of these children have already been permanently changed, and the abuse they have suffered is inescapable as the images are circulated around the world. The damage of this enduring reminder of their exploitation is something which should be minimized at all costs. Next, even if I was to concede that a person's sexual fantasies about children are harmless; they have other outlets for these fantasies which are already legal and less harmful. The main example of this are the digitally altered photos which have been made to look like CP. Pseudo-CP, as some people refer to it, contains the face of a child superimposed onto the body of someone who is over the age of 18. While still disturbing, it allows pedophiles to indulge in their fantasies without possessing an image of an actual child who has been raped or otherwise victimized. In this scenario, there is no need for actual CP to be produced, and it's already legal. When thinking about this matter, we must seriously consider the effects of these images on the children who are depicted in them. The following is an excerpt from the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children's information section about CP: It is important to realize these images can have a devastating and lasting effect on children. In addition to any physical injuries they can suffer in the course of their molestation, such as genital bruising, lacerations, or exposure to sexually transmitted diseases, child victims can also experience depression, withdrawal, anger, and other psychological disorders.24 Such effects may continue into adulthood. For instance women abused as children have statistically significant higher rates of nightmares, back pain, headaches, pelvic pain, eating binges, and other similar symptoms.25 Child victims also frequently experience feelings of guilt and responsibility for the abuse and betrayal, a sense of powerlessness, and feelings of worthlessness and low self-esteem.26 These feelings are often expressed through increased fearfulness and changes in sleep patterns including re-occurring memories, flashbacks, dreams, and nightmares associated with posttraumatic stress.27 Younger children tend to externalize stress by re-enacting sexual activities through play, while adolescents may experience negative effects on their growing sexuality as a result of inappropriate early sexual experiences.28 The lives of children featured in these illegal images are forever altered, not only by the molestation but by the permanent record of the exploitation. Once sexual exploitation takes place, the molester may document these encounters on film or video. This documentation can then become the ""ammunition"" needed to blackmail the child into further submission, which is necessary to continue the relationship and maintain its secrecy. In addition these documented images allow molesters to ""relive"" their sexual fantasies with children long after the exploitation has stopped. (http://www.missingkids.com...) This is not something which we should take lightly. These are not just fantasies; they are the manifestations of dangerous minds. As far as whether or not it is our country's duty to insert at least some semblance of morality into its citizens, I will leave you with this quote by one of the fathers of the American Revolution, Thomas Paine: ""When we are planning for posterity, we ought to remember that virtue is not hereditary."""	CON	102
102	S59b2920c-A86a00b7d	CMV: If Republicans Believe Impeachment of a Former President is Unconstitutional, Then They Should Be Pressing For Trump to Be Prosecuted in the Usual, Constitutional Way	"First off, I don't outright reject the notion that impeachment was never intended to be used against someone who has already left office. I think the point is arguable.

However, I completely reject the notion that our founders intended that someone could commit high crimes and misdemeanors against the United States and then leave office to escape ever having to face accountability. From this I derive two points.

First, Republicans should still be obligated to vote to convict if they believe he is guilty. They are essentially serving as the ""jury"" in the trial of the president. The jury does not decide matters of law. If I were called to individual juror duty, I can't vote ""not guilty"" because I think the judge was wrong in ruling a search unconstitutional or because the defendant might get the death penalty and I think that should be unconstitutional. In the same way, Republican senators cannot justify a ""no"" vote on the question of ""did Donald Trump commit these crimes"" by saying there should not have been a trial. In fact, in real jury trials we throw out jurors who have so stated they will vote no ahead of time--the 45 senators who voted that this impeachment trial was unconstitutional would have already been dismissed as states do to people who say they oppose the death penalty in death penalty cases.

Second, if they persist in voting no due to ""process"" arguments, and they actually believe those arguments, they should be pressing for the charges and trial to be moved to whatever they think is the proper venue. That could be federal prosecution. If they really do believe that high crimes and misdemeanors were committed against the United States--as they have gone on record saying--then they cannot basically advocate for there being no consequences. They should explicitly state what body DOES have jurisdiction and advocate for it to take action.

There are a couple of ways you might change my view. First, I guess you could argue that the Founders and our legal system really DID want to set it up where a president or other lawmaker could freely commit crimes while in office and then resign to escape consequences. That seems like a stretch to me but maybe you have a long lost letter of Alexander Hamilton somewhere where he says ""you know we really should just let presidents do whatever so long as they're leaving office soon."" Second, you could show that there are more than 33 GOP senators who are voting no because they believe the president did NOT commit any impeachable offenses. However, I do not see very many, if any, making this argument. Why more than 33? Because you need 17 GOP votes to convict and there are 50 GOP Senators. Third, I guess you can argue that even though it was never intended, it simply IS the case that a president at the end of a term is basically immune to any accountability whatsoever, but if that is the case you should also propose a remedy because that is insane.

**In summation, the Republican ""process"" argument against impeachment is bunk as far as the trial. Either, like jurors, they vote on matters of fact alone and say whether or not they think Trump committed high crimes and misdemeanors OR they start advocating for this trial to be moved to the proper venue or their process argument is bunk.**"	PRO	103
103	S1b363f0c-A4f9b1cdc	Individuals should only be held responsible for the consequences of their own actions	Under this law, bullies would be held accountable for their own actions, not those of the victim. The law wouldn’t have to equate them with murderers, punish them as harshly, or suggest they bear sole and full responsibility for the victim’s death. But it would make it clear they bear some responsibility for the outcome, and that they should be punished for their role. If they are children, they can be prosecuted as juvenile offenders and given less harsh punishments, like community service.	CON	104
104	Sd76b3024-A3232e044	LSD should be legal under license	"Potential For Abuse and Dangers: There are various cases of LSD being abused extensively. LSD is not technically addictive, but it does develop a strong sense of dependability on users, much like marijuana. The DEA has developed three reasons as to why LSD users may find repeated abuse desirable and dangerous: • The long duration of the drug's effects means the user will not have to purchase the drug on a rapidly recurring basis. • Tolerance develops so quickly that repeated ingestion is useless so the dosages have to become more potent. • The inconsistent effects and potential adverse reactions lead to erratic use of LSD. This can be seen as exciting and users will not become bored. The abuse of LSD is not as common as most other hallucinogens or narcotics, but it does occur with potentially dangerous effects. LSD use can cause people to have psychotic-like reactions and become dangerous to themselves or others. This data was collected by University of Maryland studies. Adverse effects include: • Intense anxiety • Panic • Delusions • Paranoia • Rapid mood swings • The sense that one is losing his/her identity. • The fear one is disintegrating into nothingness and reality does not exist. • The frightening and disorienting effects of a bad trip are known to result in violent or hazardous behavior, leading to accidental fatalities, homicides, self-mutilation, or suicide. • Some users may experience seizures. Long-term effects include: • Drug-induced Psychosis for some people, even those with no history or symptoms of psychological disorders, a distorted ability to recognize reality, think rationally, or communicate with others caused by LSD may last years after taking the drug. • Hallucinogen Persisting Perception Disorder (HPPD) Known familiarly to LSD users as ""flashbacks,"" HPPD episodes are ""spontaneous, repeated recurrences of some of the sensory distortions originally produced by LSD."" 27 The flashback experience may include visual disturbances such as halos or trails attached to moving objects or seeing false motions in the peripheral vision. Sources: - http://www.cesar.umd.edu... - http://www.lsdaddiction.us... Medical Uses: Nobody claims there are “no medical uses” for LSD. There is apparent medical value with this drug, however, they are not considered worth the side-effects or the studies are just inconclusive. There is a lack of studies to prove that LSD is actually safe or worthwhile in medicine. University of California San Francisco and Harvard are both studying for possible uses of LSD, but they are both inconclusive so far. LSD has some potential use in treating anxiety, but there are preferable alternatives to proscribing a psychedelic drug with a history of causing dependency on users and with hazardous side-effects. Safer and proven alternatives include: • Diazepam (Valium) • Alprazolam (Xanax) • Lorazepam (Ativan) • Clonazepam (Klonopin) • Sertraline (Zoloft) • Paroxetine (Paxil) • Fluoxetine (Prozac) • Escitalopram (Lexapro) • Citalopram (Celexa) • Venlafaxine (Effexor) While most of these drugs also have dependency their side-effects are mild and not nearly as hazardous as LSD. There are also proven therapeutic ways to treat anxiety not using drugs at all. There is little reason to consider LSD when you have more accepted and proven drugs at your disposal that are much safer to use with the same desired effect. That is the reason why the United States, Canada, and the UK do not use LSD in their medical communities and consider it to have no reasonable medical use. Source: http://www.medicalnewstoday.com... LSD as an Inspiration: First of all, Steve Jobs only said he used it and didn’t claim it helped him in any way. Kary Mullis is a rare case of LSD assisting in scientific development, but there is no proof that he wouldn’t have developed it either. The fact that he credits his research to a psychedelic drug proves his lack of confidence in himself and I am sure somebody would have developed it soon after he due to his lack of hallucinogens. There is actually no evidence of Francis Crick using LSD when he came up with the double-helix concept. Biographer Matt Ridley actually suggests it is unlikely since that discovery was made before LSD was popularized and would have been unavailable to him. Also, the story that suggested that Crick used LSD was reported second hand meaning it used secondary sources and may lack credibility. Ridley got his information directly from Crick’s wife who said Crick wasn’t supplied with LSD until 1967. Crick developed the double-helix concept in 1953 and was awarded the Nobel Prize in 1962. Source: http://www.rationaloptimist.com... Legalization Method: “LSD is a victimless crime, a person takes it and will continue to trip peacefully and often with a ""trip sitter"" or sober person to ensure that things are kept under control. This is why I also argue to make it only legal under a license similar to firearms or a car. The participants would need to take a safety class and possibly pass a test in order to be able to buy the drug.” LSD can have victims with the fact that the drug can cause psychotic reactions on the users. LSD users can easily become violent and unpredictable. LSD is illegal for recreational use as a preventative measure for something that will almost certainly happen at least on occasion. If there is an obvious chance that people will be harmed or even killed it should not be legalized for mere recreational use. The “trip sitter” would be put in great danger and perhaps more than what he/she is aware of. Taking classes to prepare people for “trips” would not work because once LSD takes effect any rational knowledge the person may have had is gone. People on powerful hallucinogens are no longer rational. How strict will your test be? What will be tested? What would be covered in the safety class? You should also consider the fact that this program you are suggesting will popularize LSD across the board. How do you know that people who are rejected from the program will still find a way to get the drug through illegal means? You are now giving out licenses for people to buy LSD legally if they pass your program. What will stop them from illegally selling it to people who could not pass your program once they have obtained a license to buy it? They can easily just buy it and then secretly sell it for a profit to people who your program would have declared unfit or dangerous to have LSD. “Then the people will be able to trip peacefully while the people who want nothing to do with it, dont have to buy it. This combined with the fact that no one has ever died from an LSD overdose only enhances the safety of this chemical” There is no evidence that people will actually trip peacefully. LSD effects are unpredictable and people can have “bad trips” that can potentially cause permanent harm. There are no confirmed cases of people dying from LSD overdose, but it is possible and we shouldn’t encourage it to happen. People can and have died or got seriously injured (sometimes mutilated) while on LSD due to its effects."	CON	105
105	Sfe78c1c3-Aa1c68570	Dueling should be legalized	Hello! This will be my first debate on this website. I look forward to a rousing yet logical exchange. I believe I can establish through multiple means why dueling should remain illegal. For the purposes of this debate, I will be referring to various social mores and/or legal structures in reference to two concepts, defined below: Public benefit / public detriment: With respect to a given action by a person or persons, all the associated drawbacks and benefits OF that action TO the general public and/or people unassociated by any particular relationship with the actors. Actions which have a net positive effect (without undue burden on a minority) on the populace's quality of life are a public benefit. Net negative effects of the same are a public detriment. This could include but is not limited to externalities, psychological effects, monetary impacts, social pressures, property gain/loss, etc. Synonyms: Social good, social ill. Morally good/evil: Any action of one individual which has an effect on another individual of a non-neutral nature. Good actions are defined as that set of behaviors and standards which, if all members of that society were to follow the mores associated with that action, results in a net positive increase in quality of life on average. Evil actions are the actions that, if all members etc., incur net negative decreases in QoL, most particularly incurring or allowing nonconsensual pain and suffering. Quality of Life: An individual's circumstances and environment as it relates to the opportunities given and pressures on that individual's happiness. An increase in Quality of Life (QoL) is associated with a higher chance of an individual experiencing happiness and satisfaction, whereas a decrease in QoL is associated with a higher chance of stress, pain, and loss, risk, and negative emotions. I'm hoping that covers everything, and that these are acceptable definitions. I think they may be unnecessarily specific, but.. *shrug*	CON	106
106	S7ad5a1f-A647c924d	Death penalty should be allowed	"My opponent has decided to use the bible as justification for the death penalty. I will point out 2 problems with this: 1) The Bible is not trustworthy or reliable There are hundreds of contradictions in the Bible, even the creation story in Genesis 1 and 2 don't match up. For a list of contradictions in the Bible, here is a source for that: [4] I will point out just two of the many contradictions: , Genesis 1:25-27 reads: ""And God made the beast of the earth after his kind, and cattle after their kind, and every thing that creepeth upon the earth after his kind: and God saw that it was good. And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness: and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth. So God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him; male and female created he them."" While Genesis 2 reads: ""And the LORD God said, It is not good that the man should be alone; I will make him an help meet for him. And out of the ground the LORD God formed every beast of the field, and every fowl of the air; and brought them unto Adam to see what he would call them: and whatsoever Adam called every living creature, that was the name thereof."" As you can see, the order in which God created animals differs from when he created mankind in these accounts. In Genesis 1, the animals were created first. In Genesis 2, Adam and Eve(who are believed to be the first humans by most Christians) were created first. A second contradiction is here: In Mathew 18:3, Mathew 19:14, Mark 10:15, and Luke 18:17, it is suggested that to enter heaven you should like a child. Yet, in 1 Corinthians 13:11. 1 Corinthians 14:20, and Ephesians 4:14, we are told we should not be like Children. There exists many more contradictions which you can look at in the source I provided. Thus, with this many contradictions, it should be clear that the Bible is not a trustworthy source of information. It should also be noted that there are thousands of Christian denominations: this is likely because of the many contradictions in the Bible: some Christians choose to believe one thing, while others choose to believe something else the Bible says. Neither are exactly wrong, because for the most part, what almost every sect believes in is likely supported by the bible, but what they believe in is also contradicted by the bible elsewhere. If the Bible was not contradictory, I'm sure there would be fewer Christian denominations and interpretations of the Bible. 2) The new Testament tells us the old testament laws were fulfilled, and contradicts what my opponent suggests In Mathew 5:17, it is stated by Jesus himself that the old testament laws are going to be fulfilled by him. Now, I grew up as a Mormon and while in this sect, I was taught that this meant that the punishment for these laws are fulfilled by Christ, and people no longer need to be punished for breaking these laws, if they seek Jesus in their lives. I feel like this is a common view of most Chrisian sects: that you no longer need to be punished for not following Old Testament laws so long as you rely on Christ. Next, there are many examples where Jesus tells people not to punish people for breaking old testament law, such as with the adulteress woman in John 8. He says ""Let he who is without sin among you, cast the first stone"". In old testament law, a person who commits adultery would be stoned to death. Well, Jesus essentially told them that they can't and shouldn't stone the woman. If there was a murderer in the New Testament that was brought to Jesus in the same Fashion, just based off of what we know about the Biblican Jesus, he would have likely said the same thing. Thus, I believe my opponent has not offered a strong argument in this round in favor of the death penalty. Additionally, it would only appeal to those who are Christian or Jewish. And probably not even those who are Christian since they believe in the New Testament in a way usually of what I said about it. Sources: [4] http://skepticsannotatedbible.com..."	CON	107
107	Sf6d26e83-A2cf17640	The Death Penalty should be abolished	Hi, I wanted to discuss a very important issue: the Death Penalty As a progressive I'm against it and my view is getting more and more support as I see that those in favor of the Death Penalty have little or no valid argument. Here are some fact: _The Death Penalty costs more than life imprisonment _There is absolutely no evidence that it deters crime (just look at crime rates in the US compared to Europe wich abolished it) _For every 100 executed prisoners there are likely 4 innocent people being executed _It diminishes society to the same moral level as the criminals _Human behavior is mostly determined by the environment and can be changed by a caring environment (in approx. 80% of violent criminals) -The countries who abolished it usually have lower crime rates then those who didn't _The Death Penalty creates a society that promotes revenge and bloodthirst After all these arguments I know no Death Penalty supporter who was able to give me a valid reason why I should support it. So I'm asking the the Death Penalty supporters in the Debate.org community if they are able to do so (I don't think so but I'm an open-minded individual)	PRO	108
108	Se98fe508-A91ffee34	Should immigrants in the United States illegally who are parents of us minors be deported	yes they should	CON	109
109	Se98fe508-A36a7cc8c	Should immigrants in the United States illegally who are parents of us minors be deported	There should not be any border surveillance	CON	110
110	Sd257d98c-Adb46e80	Child pornography should be legal to posses.	"My opponent claims that someone who possesses child pornography is ""are realistically doing nothing to harm anybody"". Here is the point of stasis between us. Child pornography should not be legal to possess because: 1. possession and viewing of child pornography increases the demand for it, thereby encouraging its production 2. child pornography arrests help law enforcement to crack down on and find sexual predators 3. child pornography fuels sexual fantasies about children and can play an important part in leading pedophiles to physically molest children Here are my justifications: 1. This is a simple supply and demand argument. The more people who possess child pornography, the bigger an industry it will become. If the child pornography industry grows, it will have to satisfy the demand by making more films/pictures. Therefore, more children will be abused, molested, and mentally and emotionally scarred. 2. 40% of all child pornography arrestees in the US are dual offenders who have sexually victimized children in the past (http://www.missingkids.com...). Child pornography laws give the Department of Justice another outlet to monitor and convict sexual offenders. 3. All fantasies must start somewhere, and child pornography has been clearly linked to being a starting point for pedophilia. Sexual abuse against children has risen 1500% since 1988, and this is largely credited to the advent of the internet and the access it provides to child pornography (http://www.nch.org.uk...). Also, most convicted pedophiles acknowledge that viewing child pornography helped lead them to molest children (http://www.guardian.co.uk...). In conclusion, unless my opponent thinks that people should also be allowed to molest children, then I have a hard time seeing how he can defend the legalization of possessing child pornography."	CON	111
111	S7ad5a1f-A79b25ebc	Death penalty should be allowed	"https://www.biblebelievers.com... http://time.com... Yes I would would want to get the death penalty because I would deserve it and I wouldn't live with myself These are reasons that the death penalty should be allowed 1).The death penalty was first instituted by God Himself in Genesis 9:6: ""Whoso sheddeth man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed: for in the image of God made he man."" Man didn't invent the death penalty, so man has no right to abandon it. We live in an age when everyone is far too concerned with ""human rights"", and God has been practically ignored, as if He had no rights at all. Killers are to be killed, and God's will has not been fulfilled until our governing bodies have executed wrath upon those who have killed others. 2).God has actually promised to bless us if we follow His plan of using the death penalty? Notice Deuteronomy 19:11-13. The death Penalty also brings closure for the people who got seriously injured or loved ones who got killed, their families will get closure. ""Many in the survivor community feel like the death penalty offers a sense of justice being done. And that's what his sentence felt like to me. I hope it also brings closure to those who lost loved ones that day. There are, of course, many in the survivor community who feel that he should spend his life in prison and sit in a cell and think about what he did. I don't speak for everybody"". Anyways, it also stops from the person from committing another murder/crime. And they deserve what they get and it pleases the Lord. Thanks for debating me:)"	PRO	112
112	Se98fe508-A24b44ca1	Should immigrants in the United States illegally who are parents of us minors be deported	They are people just like us and I think that they should be allowed to stay.	CON	113
113	S6702cc42-A44792f83	Abortion should be legal	"Ah, I see what you did, Barely speak for yourself but only for the famous quotes that favors your side. I will refute them. ""Abortion IS murder, "" No. The being inside does not have sentience and soul as the braincells of the subjects are barely complete for anything. If abortion counts as murder, Then you might as well resurrect the criminals because according to your claim execution is also a crime. You might say that execution is for the greater good. Abortion is for the mother's good. Disposing a non-sentient being while lightening one's own life is good. Of course it is selfish, But restricting the choice is even more selfish consider you are limiting a rational choice. The baby won't do anything that humanity wouldn't replace at all. It is not murder. It has no soul nor identity. It is like disposing a plate of food down the garbage. ""I've noticed that everyone who is for abortion has already been born. "" Humans doesn't need to exist. If trump isn't born at all then hillary will take its place. Unless everybody will do something that no one, Out of all history and future can do, Abortion is still OK. And if that, Prostitutes should be executed immediately because they don't do sex for reproduction, Even if this is why they are alive. No one ""should"" be born. Everybody is a chance or what. The fact is one ejaculation releases millions of sperm cells, And only one corresponds to you. No one is destined to be born. You see the predictions made by mayas only predicts that this person in the future will do this and do that and harm or save the world, But they didn't state who this will be, Or his entire genetics being pre-written. ""Pain does exist but that doesn't mean we should go causing unnecessary pain"" a little pain for eternal joy. The whole reason why you are aborting the child is because you don't want it. That's all. ""Abortion is. . . One more heart that will never beat again. Two more eyes that will never see light. Two more hands that will never touch or feel. Two more legs that will never run for miles. Two more lips that will never speak a word. One more mouth that will never know a smile. "" Seeing none of the baby's organs are developed enough, And there are disabled people in all body parts, This isn't a problem. These requirements are not necessary as there are disabilities. Also, What is wrong for disposing a baby when it can do nothing at all? ""I feel the greatest destroyer of peace today is 'Abortion', Because it is a war against the child"" no. If abortion doesn't exist we would have 12M people. No it is not a war against a child because it has no sentience as its brain can generate barely anything. Putting the baby into an eternal sleep is nothing. Abortion itself shouldn't be illegal but if there are people in the family that strongly disagrees then it can be illegal. If all people allows it it shouldn't. ""You mass slaughter your own children and call it 'reproductive freedom'"" There are Ace people who never had sex. And you'd illegalize that? Disposing a slab of meat isn't something out of freedom. And a baby is a slab of meat at this stage. It can do nothing more. We don't really need the baby, And it is not going to do something irreplaceable in life. Technically everybody can be aborted. It is just their parents didn't do it. ""Abortion is when a baby gets the death penalty for the behavior of someone else. "" Not penalty. Their life barely started. Let's say that you got fired on the first day on job, And because of that, It wouldn't matter to your financial support. Abortion is like that: he can't remember the mom, Crawl out of the box and murder the mom alive. "" If a mother can kill her own child, What is left but for us to kill each other"" I can die right now and leave the debate blank. I don't do that because I don't want to do it. We can simply kill each other. We just don't want to do it. We can perfectly do that. But I don't want to commit murder, Because it is a waste of energy. Technically removing humans from the earth is actually better for the environment, Just saying. We can kill, Just no need to."	PRO	114
114	S712e9d27-A26129da2	The United States should decriminalize drugs.	Drugs, and Health It's a well-known fact that drugs (meaning recreational drugs) are extremely dangerous to ones health--this is both in terms of addiction and the fact that each person, can react differently to the presence of drugs in their system, and oftentimes this 'reaction' can warrant emergency treatment and be fatal in some cases. The National Institute of Health reported that since 2012, deaths related do the recreational use of cocaine have risen in the U.S; with more than 7000 people dying from direct overdose in 2015. [1.] https://www.inspiremalibu.com... Additionally, the National Center for Health Statistics found that drug deaths related to heroin have also increased. In 2015, they were triple the percentage that they were in 2010 [2.] https://www.inspiremalibu.com... This increase, has not gone unnoticed by health officials within the U.S--given how large the mortality rates are. Opioids (which are illegal) also make the top of the list in drug-related deaths over the last few years [3.] ahttps://www.usnews.com... In order to get an accurate idea of why drugs can kill; we need to actually understand what happens to the body upon taking drugs. Even in moderate amounts, recreational drugs, come with an extraordinarily high-risk. I will list four drugs (that are the most popular among recreational drug users) and provide a brief description of their effects, and the dangers that they present to the system. Cocaine One of the most popular drugs, cocaine use can lead to many negative side-effects, long-term addiction, and of course, death. When a person takes cocaine (the most common method being to snort it through the nasal passages), it rapidly enters the system, primarily effecting the heart rate and the brain. Cocaine stops neurotransmitters like norepinephrine, serotonin, and dopamine from being 'reabsorbed' into the brain, which is what creates the so-called high and feeling of euphoria. [4.] Naturally, though, this is not normal, nor is it necessary. Serotonin in particular is an absolutely vital chemical, as it regulates the mood and anxiety levels. Low or inconsistent serotonin levels are strongly associated with depression and other mental health problems. [5.] Now, in terms of what cocaine does to the heart, it can be even more damaging. According the American Heart Association, cocaine use (both long-term and short-term, and including direct cases of overdose) is responsible for 15,000 each year. [6.] http://luxury.rehabs.com... Chest pain itself is incredibly common among cocaine users, with 40% having to be admitted to emergency rooms each year. [see above link.] Arrhythmia, which is an abnormal heart rate, is very widely-developed among cocaine users, and can be serious. [7.] http://www.thepoisonreview.com... As source #6 states, issues with the heart as a result of cocaine use occur because the heart becomes over-stimulated when cocaine enters the system, thus, it damages the valves and inner lining; which in addition to an irregular heartbeat, can cause blood clots in the heart. First-time users, are in fact among the most vulnerable group when it comes to health issues related to cocaine use; which is pretty damning for young teenagers or people within their 20's who may be offered the drug. And if it was legalized, this would surely happen at a greater rate. One could argue that upon legalization, cocaine could potentially be as popular as alcohol among youths. Research from Australia suggests that even casual cocaine-use, can risk heart damage. [8.] The research also showed that cocaine-users had higher blood pressure than people who do not use cocaine, as well a higher pulse; which means they have developed tachycardia--an abnormal heart rhythm. Heroin Upon using heroin, the neurotransmitters within the brain (similarly to cocaine and other drugs) are severely impaired, resulting in poor mood regulation [9.] https://www.drugabuse.gov... and therefore inevitable chemical imbalance. [10.] http://www.pbs.org... Other vital parts of the body, such as the kidneys and intestines, are also badly impacted. [11.] http://www.narconon.org... Other organs that can be damaged are the lungs, and as with cocaine, it can cause blood clots to develop in them. [12.] https://www.sovhealth.com... Other issues such as Empyema (the formation of pus between the lungs and chest area) can also easily be developed among heroin users. In addition, Pneumonia and Bronchial-type infections are also a danger. [see above link.] Once again, if a drug like heroin was to be legalized, I see no reason why use related to it would decrease--if anything, legalization would be a suggestion to the general population that using heroin is safe, thus, it would likely increase. Ecstasy Similarly to cocaine, ecstasy and other pill-based highs are relatively common among recreational drug users. [13.] http://m.health24.com... The detriments of these particular drugs are, again, pretty severe. Even minor Ecstasy use can cause seizures. [14.] http://pmj.bmj.com... and heart attacks. [15.] https://www.sciencedaily.com... The effects of ecstasy on the brain (as with cocaine) are also rather alarming. People can develop psychosis/paranoia, and severe anxiety. [16.] http://m.talktofrank.com... Cannabis Indeed one of the more mild drugs, but certainly not without its detriments. Cannabis can also cause severe anxiety and paranoia. [17.] http://m.talktofrank.com... And in terms of physical effects, it can increase your heart rate by up to 3 times, lower your blood pressure, and interfere with your blood sugar levels. [18.] http://www.webmd.com... Moreover, cannabis impacts lung-functioning, making people more susceptible to bronchial infections and subsequent lung-abnormalities. [19.] https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov... Moral Implications Laws exist in the first place to prevent and protect. It's abundantly clear that illegal drugs are dangerous and can cause extensive damage to people--therefore, they should stay illegal. The government has a moral and practical obligation to ensure the safety of its citizens and to minimize the damages to health that each individual can essentially incur; this is mainly why under 21's in the U.S cannot legally purchase alcohol, why tobacco use is being made illegal in public places around the world, and why medically-trained physicians are reponsible for our health care and are the only people who should make the decision as to whether we can take a certain drug; excluding minor drugs like paracetamol, etc. The point here is that drugs are not supposed to be for recreational use, but are there to treat issues which physicians see fit to treat. Your average citizen doesn't have the medical knowledge or practical experience to decide whether a drug is suitable for them or whether it is indeed safe. And after all, there's enough pressure on physicians to treat problems relating to pre-existing 'legal' drugs like alcohol; with there many cases of alcohol-abuse, alcohol-related hospital admissions, and alcohol-related deaths within the U.S. [20.] https://www.cdc.gov... So, the question is: why should we compound this? If anything, alcohol shows that if a drug is legal, the more widely used and abused it can actually be.	CON	115
115	Sf6d26e83-Ace790d71	The Death Penalty should be abolished	Well the Death Penalty does cost more. That is due to the numerous appeals. Now some Death Penalty supporters might say that prisoners shouldn't have those appeals. However if that were the case than approx. 30 out 100 prisoners would be wrongfully executed. In fact thanks to the appeals, about 30% of prisoners sentenced to death either get free due to lack of proof, or just have to serve some years in jail. So if we didn't permit those appeals we would be killing 30 possibly innocent people out of a hundred, and that is really unacceptable. Now when it comes to the nature vs. nurture debate, I understand that you're concerned about the 20% that seem to never learn their lesson. But do you think that it's right to kill 100 prisoners knowing that 80 of them could potentially become model citizens, just to kill 20 that probably won't? There is no reason to kill them, we can keep them in prison. But then you said that keeping people in jail for the rest of their lives is more inhumane than killing them. I think that depends on what kind of prison you think of. Prison doesn't necessarily mean that we have to lock prisoners in a 10m2 cell all day. We could try the scandinavian model, where prisoners can participate in recreational activities that would also benefit the society they live in. Now I know that the US vs. Europe example wasn't the best argument, but still in most european countries society tries to look at crime in a different way than in America. Instead of punishing criminals in the harshest way possible, society tries to help criminals become better persons, and we certainly won't make criminals better persons by killing them... So the US should definitely try that approach. Also isn't it quite shameful that the US and Japan are the only two countries in the G8 to have Capital Punishment (especially if we consider that even Russia has a moratorium on it).	PRO	116
116	S328198b3-Aaa290183	The US should adopt a ban on all semiautomatic firearms	Appreciated, Con. I’ll now address the opposing case. R1) Compliance with buyback program Con’s first point is that it may disobey the law due to the powerful influence of gun culture. Ironically, his following argument assumes that gun owners are law-abiding and would comply with new gun laws. That contradiction aside, this argument still has multiple problems: a. Most Americans are in favor of stricter gun laws, and Con proves this with his own source. A CNN poll in it from last month finds that most respondents, when asked “do you favor or oppose stricter gun control laws?”, answered favorably at 70% [1]. Gallup, CBS News, and USA Today polls asked the same question and yielded similar results [1]. Con cherry-picked the 87% figure from a query asking about support for a ban on all guns, which isn’t relevant to the resolution of this debate. b. Gun buybacks have worked in other countries with no reports of gun owners rising up in defiance, such as in Australia in ‘96 and Brazil in ‘03. I challenge Con to find a single buyback that resulted in noticeable disobedience, or anything that suggests US gun owners would not be civil in the event of a program happening. R2) Illegal guns The assertion made here is that presence of illegal guns on the unregulated market would remain unrestrained, despite my proposal. This isn’t true, however, because the banning the sale/manufacturing/importation of semi-automatic firearms would shut off the flow of new guns being added into circulation. 11 million guns were manufactured in 2013 [8], so assuming that number is the same every year, and most of those guns are semi-automatic, a ban on manufacturing would significantly reduce the amount entering circulation. Because a ban would dampen the available supply of firearms and ammunitions, it would force prices to rise and would make transactions more difficult to complete. Many criminals would, then, decide to forego the process altogether. What’s also worth noting is the risk factor lawbreakers would have to consider. It’s often assumed that criminals don’t and will never adhere to any laws, but to an extent, they do. Criminals internalize a cost to their actions, which thus influences their decision to proceed with committing a crime. Some Yale law researchers found that “...while criminals as a group have negative opinions of the law and legal authority, gun offenders (just like noncriminals) are more likely to comply with the law when they believe (a) in the legitimacy of legal actors, but especially the police, and (b) that the substance of the law is consistent with their own moral schedules” [2]. This means that, while some hardline criminals may ignore new laws, many will become aware the risk possessing a semi-automatic weapon poses, and thus will be more hesitant to purchase them illegally and subsequently use them in crime. Consider also the incredibly passive approach the US takes toward gun trafficking. It’s not even considered a crime, and penalties for “straw purchases”, the buying a gun for someone who legally can’t, are about as severe as getting a speeding ticket [3]. If the US took simple measures to inhibit gun trafficking, we would likely see the availability of illegal guns be reduced. Taking into consideration the natural drain of illegal firearms, the hesitation of criminals, and the mandatory buyback program, we would absolutely see the availability of all guns on the unregulated market plummet. R3) Defensive use Con cites a 23-year-old telephone survey to push an ad nauseum assertion that defensive gun uses number roughly 2.5 million a year. But according the Gun Violence Archive, there were only 2,047 defensive reported and verified gun uses in 2017 [4]. 64% of Kleck’s survey respondents indicated that their defensive gun uses were reported to the police [5], so either less than 0.01% of such incidents are really reported, or Con’s 2 million figure is complete bogus. Using Kleck’s data, guns were used protectively in 845,000 burglaries in 1992 [6]. But out of the 1.3 million burglaries that occurred when someone was home, in only a third of the people home were awake, and only 42% of Americans that year owned guns [6]. Using the numbers, that’s about 117,000 burglaries in which self-defensive could have actually occurred. The Bureau of Justice Statistics, a far more reliable source than Con’s, puts the defensive gun use number at 67,740 a year [7]. In 2012, only 259 justified homicides occurred [7]. Those are far lower numbers than what Con was proporting. R4) Homicides Con cites a graph on the overall homicide rate of Britain, but that isn’t what should be measured when trying to quantify results: firearm homicides should be. After its peak in 2004, firearm offenses dropped from 24,094 to 7,866 in 2015 [11]. That’s a drop of 67%. The guns that do tend to be used are considered “junk guns”: underpowered, inaccurate, and likely to misfire [12]. This is an indication that Britain is not only getting guns off its streets, but good ones. The Australia graph is, again, on the overall homicide rate. Even if we were to trust that alone, it wouldn’t be statistically significant because the country already had a very low homicide rate that was already declining due to other factors. A measurable effect would have to be observed within the hundreds (since they only have a few hundred murders per year), and that’s not big enough of a number to make a significant conclusion. I did provide numbers in my opening case that showed the amount of firearm homicides taking a dive, so if evidence had to be extracted from the Australia example, that’s about as meaningful a find could be. R5) Illegal gun market I partially addressed this point above, though I must dispute Con’s assertion that the doors to illegal gun trading would open. The unregulated gun market is thriving aplenty already, and Con hasn’t shown how outlawing semi-automatics would boost it in any way that would encourage illegality and/or crime. Firearm trafficking tends to originate from states with looser laws and higher gun ownership rates [9], which suggests that legality and availability affects the market of illegal weapons. I’ve already demonstrated ways in which my proposal would discourage gun trafficking, such as squeezing the general supply through the cessation of manufacturing/selling, buyback purchasing, hiking the prices, inhibiting criminality via cost-risk, and the possibility of imposing harsher penalties on such behavior (which the US has a lot of room to do). Con invokes Prohibition, but isn’t clear about how it’s relevant. Prohibition was a success insofar that it reduced alcohol consumption [10]; its intended goal was improving health, whereas the goal of gun regulations are to reduce crime and accidents. Alcohol may harm the individual, but it can’t be directly used to commit crime in the way firearms can. I allege that, because consuming alcohol involves individual choice whereas being a victim of gun violence does not, the latter is less desirable and thus more deserving of legal attention. Burdens Most of Con’s arguments have been defensive, along the lines of “it won’t have much of an impact.” Except for his last point, he hasn’t offered anything that suggests that a ban on semi-automatic weapons would be a net detriment. That means that even if you discarded all of my arguments, Con’s burden would hardly be met. Sources 1. Con’s first source. 2. http://bit.ly... 3. http://bit.ly... 4. http://bit.ly... 5. Con’s third source, p. 186. 6. http://bit.ly... (pp. 1441-42) 7. http://lat.ms... 8. http://n.pr... 9. http://nyti.ms... 10. http://bit.ly... 11. http://bit.ly... 12. http://bit.ly...	PRO	117
117	S70e17380-A57f4d608	The United States should impose Stronger, More Effective Gun Control Laws	Resolution: The United States should impose Stronger, More Effective Gun Control Laws This resolution can also be interpretted as the U.S. Congress Should pass stronger, more effective gun control legislation than we have now, to deal with the surge in mass gun shootings over the last three years and the 491,930 cases of gun violence the nation experiences on average annually. (On average, 33,000 Americans are killed with guns each year [1], and contrary to popular belief, statistics show that gun violence has not decreased over the last decade [2]). First Round is for acceptance only. (However, Con make a brief statement about his position on this issue in ROUND 1 and even provide 1 to 5 sources to back up his claims.) [1] (http://www.americanprogress.org...) [2] (http://www.dailykos.com...)	PRO	118
118	Sa3c027ad-A36f7b7aa	The United States Federal Government's War on Drugs should be ended.	"R1: the drug war has worked Here is an example where the drug war has worked: Specific federal drug legislation and oversight began with the 1914 Harrison Act, the first broad anti-drug law in the United States. Enforcement of this law contributed to a significant decline in narcotic addiction in the United States. Addiction in the United States eventually fell to its lowest level during World War II, when the number of addicts is estimated to have been somewhere between 20,000 and 40,000. Many addicts, faced with disappearing supplies, were forced to give up their drug habits. [1] So also you talk about correlation, well what you said is a correlation. Also theory's + logic+ correlation does = causation. Furthermore you say after the legalization of drugs in Alaska users dropped, false: The court’s ruling became a green light for marijuana use. Although the ruling was limited to persons 19 and over, teens were among those increasingly using marijuana. According to a 1988 University of Alaska study, the state’s 12 to 17-year-olds used marijuana at more than twice the national average for their age group. [4] The theory of deterrence: Deterrence is a theory from behavioral psychology about preventing or controlling actions or behavior through fear of punishment or retribution. This theory of criminology is shaping the criminal justice system of the United States and various other countries. [2] The drug war causes fear and punishment, lowering users. legalization would raise the amount of users as there would be none of this psychological aspect. Also the reason taxing the drugs would raise users is because there would not be a punishment for drug usage. The reason is above. For your won comment: In 1982, President Ronald Reagan adopted a national drug strategy that took a comprehensive approach consisting of five components: international cooperation, research, strengthened law enforcement, treatment and rehabilitation, and prevention and education. It was remarkably successful: Illegal drug use by young adults dropped more than 50 percent. [3] So can it be won? maybe but drug usage would lower. drugs can still be a health problem if they are illegal, or legal. The source doesn't say it is the problem due to users, it is a problem due to the effects. Also here is proof that the war is working: Illegal drug users: 11 million Tobacco: 66 million alcohol: 109 million [4] The legal ones have more users, the illegal ones have less. So the illegalization efforts keep the rate low. R2: cost In the year 2000, drug abuse cost American society an estimated $160 billion. [5] got that? Legalization would result in skyrocketing costs that would be paid by American taxpayers and consumers. Legalization would significantly increase drug use and addiction—and all the social costs that go with it. [5] So it would raise taxes therefore lowering income. So your ""it helps the eonomy"" is false as it would raise taxes even on the psychics. In 2008, marijuana alone was involved in 375,000 emergency room visits. [3] So there are already a lot of people that go to the ER for marijuana use, legalizing it would raise users (as I have proved) therefore logically raising the amount of ER visits. SO of the 4 million marijuana users 400,000 (approx) go to the ER, if you legalize it according to [5] users would double . So there would've 8 million users, so the number of ER visits would double too to 800,000 (approx). SO logically ER x=visits would rise. You link drugs to alcohol. Alcohol and meth cause totally different things. Also alcohol has little taxation, legalization advocates call for massive taxation on drugs, so it would stay violent. For drugs cause violence: A 1997 FBI study of violence against law enforcement officers found that 24 percent of the assailants were under the influence of drugs at the time they attacked the officers and that 72 percent of the assailants had a history of drug law violations. [6] Causes violence. Many scientific studies also support the connection between drug use and crime. One study investigated state prisoners who had five or more convictions. These are hardened criminals. It found that four out of every five of them used drugs regularly. [6] Drugs make you violent making you cause crime. Your alcohol statement: Sometimes the environment you’re drinking in can increase the chances of both becoming aggressive and of being exposed to alcohol-fuelled violence [7] It says alcohol is weak unless taken in large substances in the article, and people only get super affected by alcohol when in noisy bars. A small dose of meth will make you go crazed, a glass of wine wouldn't. Cost (last your argument) 700$ over a life span. Let's use 70 years: 10$ per year is not significant. In FY 2002, the total federal drug budget was $11.5 billion. [7] Also the funny thing is you say legalization would end law enforcement on drugs, false: Legalizers also fail to mention that, unless drugs are made available to children, law enforcement will still be needed to deal with the sale of drugs to minors. [7] Also legalization would raise costs: Criminal justice costs would likely increase if drugs were legalized. It is quite likely that violent crime would significantly increase with greater accessibility to dangerous drugs — whether the drugs themselves are legal or not. [7] So basically if you are talking costs keep it illegal. R3: right to drugs You keep using nudity, use a viable example. Tobacco a legal drug. Tobacco can be used almost anywhere, alcohol can be used almost anywhere, so would drugs. I have contested this. Also I have proven ALL drugs cause violence towards people. The Act makes no express exception for drugs used by the terminally ill and no implied exemption is necessary to attain congressional objectives or to avert an unreasonable reading of the terms ""safe"" and ""effective"" in 201 (p) (1). Pp. 551-559. [8] A US law act (see source for info) said there is no right to a drug unless truly needed. No constitutional right. Also: Abigail Alliance for Better Access to Developmental Drugs v. von Eschenbach was resolved in early 2008 when the Supreme Court of the United States declined to hear the appeal. Their refusal left standing the appellate court decision, which said that patients have no right to ""a potentially toxic drug with no proven therapeutic benefit."" [9] No right to drugs unless needed. R4: drugs and crime Yet, under a legalization scenario, a black market for drugs would still exist. And it would be a vast black market. [10] Legalization =/= less cartels. (low on room gotta rush this) it wasn't a link just c/p it into google. R5: unintended consequences I have proven drugs cause crime, more people on drugs would raise crime. Also legalization would not end the cartels *see above* . Also source 10 shows legalization would not shrink the cartels, they would just make crack shops. It also shows the black market would remain similar legal or not. [10] You offered no proof on the corruption of police really."	CON	119
119	S1b363f0c-Af72c3534	The law should always punish actions that inflict serious harm - whether physical or psychological	The law should only punish people for their own actions, not those of others. It’s fine to punish bullies for their bullying behaviour, if it is against the law. But ‘bullycide’ implies the bully bears individual responsibility for the death of the victim, just like in the case of murder or manslaughter. But the bully did not pull the trigger, the victim did. While the bully may have intended to harm or berate the victim, she made no attempt on the victim’s life, and cannot be treated like a murderer, who intentionally took the life of another.	CON	120
120	S965182df-A99af3a85	All drugs should be legalized.	"I'll will present my opening argument in this round, as well as my rebuttal. Also, I would like to wish my opponent a (late) merry Christmas! (If that's what you celebrate haha) 1.Freedom of choice: It's our right as human beings to be allowed to do as we please with our own bodies and lives, no matter how detrimental it can be to our health and lifestyle. It's no role for the government to protect us from ourselves. What I do in my home and what you do in your home is no job of the government to keep control of, unless you are initiating direct acts of aggression towards someone who is then being deprived of their natural rights. 2. The cost: The costs of the drug war has skyrocketed. The country is approximately $40,000,000,000+ deep when looking at the monetary costs of the drug war. That's without mentioning the money lost in possible tax revenue and money flowing in the private sector with potential drug sales. 3. Prison population: According to the Justice Policy Institute, ""The United States leads the world in the number of people incarcerated in federal and state correctional facilities. There are currently more than 2 million people in American prisons or jails. Approximately one-quarter of those people held in U.S. prisons or jails have been convicted of a drug offense. The United States incarcerates more people for drug offenses than any other country. With an estimated 6.8 million Americans struggling with drug abuse or dependence, the growth of the prison population continues to be driven largely by incarceration for drug offenses."" 4. Race disparity: According to the Bureau of Justice Statistics, at midyear 2010, ""the incarceration rate for females was 126 per 100,000 population. The rate for non-Hispanic white females was 91, for non-Hispanic black females the rate was 260, and for Hispanic women the rate was 133."" The disparity also exists in the male population, ""The most serious offense for 210,200 people in the US sentenced to state facilities at the end of 2012 was a conviction involving illegal drugs. Of this total: 64,800 (30.83%) were non-Hispanic white, 79,300 (37.73%) were non-Hispanic black and 41,100 (19.55%) were Hispanic."" While this may seem like something due to more drug users in those ""social groups"", the usage rates amongst these races show differently. According to the Cato institute, ""The main obstacle to getting black America past the illusion that racism is still a defining factor in America is the strained relationship between young black men and police forces. The massive number of black men in prison stands as an ongoing and graphically resonant rebuke to all calls to 'get past racism,' exhibit initiative, or stress optimism. And the primary reason for this massive number of black men in jail is the War on Drugs. Therefore, if the War on Drugs were terminated, the main factor keeping race-based resentment a core element in the American social fabric would no longer exist. America would be a better place for all."" The War On Drugs gives off a bad relationship between law enforcement and citizens, specifically, those of color. Ending the war on drugs would give law enforcement greater opportunities to focus on more violent crimes. Prohibition is moving these drugs underground into black markets and drug cartels. 5. Violent crime: With these drug markets being outside the legal system, it increases violent crime. If a dealer and a user don't quite get along, there can be violent conflict. Unlike legal markets today, those partaking in the drug markets will use violent means to get their way. According to the NCJRS, ""The data are quite consistent with the view that Prohibition at the state level inhibited alcohol consumption, and an attempt to explain correlated residuals by including omitted variables revealed that enforcement of Prohibitionist legislation had a significant inhibiting effect as well. Moreover, both hypotheses about the effects of alcohol and Prohibition are supported by the analysis. Despite the fact that alcohol consumption is a positive correlate of homicide (as expected), Prohibition and its enforcement increased the homicide rate."" 6. Violence amongst users: CASAColumbia states, ""Contrary to conventional wisdom and popular myth, alcohol is more tightly linked with more violent crimes than crack, cocaine, heroin or any other illegal drug. In state prisons, 21 percent of inmates in prison for violent crimes were under the influence of alcohol--and no other substance--when they committed their crime; in contrast, at the time of their crimes, only three percent of violent offenders were under the influence of cocaine or crack alone, only one percent under the influence of heroin alone."" 7. Families: While drug usage itself can do a lot to harm a family, it's worse when drugs are treated as a crime rather than a medical issue. Over half of the prison population for drug offenders are parents, which can ruin a child's well being growing up without a mother or a father. Real world examples: Portugal has decriminalized drugs, and the results have shown lowering rates in drug addictions and usage. Several countries such as Spain have followed behind. Rebuttals: 1. Worker productivity: While I agree that worker productivity would take a downturn, that is a responsibility of workplaces. Businesses conduct drug tests regardless of whether or not drugs are legal, because it would lower their profits if they have employees using drugs. It's more economically beneficial for a company to conduct a drug test for their employees than to not. Liberty is inseparable with responsibility, and with this liberty of substance use, comes the responsibility of private business owners to conduct drug policies for employees. 2. Morality arguments: The role of the government is not to legislate morality. The impact of drug usage within a family is between the family members, and the family members only. Simply keeping drugs illegal will not change the mind of someone who's intention is to get high. Sources: http://www.drugwarfacts.org... http://www.drugsense.org... https://www.ncjrs.gov... http://www.drugpolicy.org... http://fee.org... http://www.drugwarfacts.org..."	PRO	121
121	S965182df-Ada836f48	All drugs should be legalized.	"First I'd like to apologize for such a delayed response. I've been busy with holiday stuff, family events, and the like. I'd again like to give my opponent a final thank you for accepting my challenge and providing very thought provoking arguments. In this round I will be providing my closing remarks. I'd also like to apologize for my sloppy use of putting in my sources (which was honestly out of pure laziness). I'd also like to note that I'm doing this at a time when I'm not busy (which happens to be 2 AM, so I apologize if my closing remarks come off as something that was written by someone who is really tired haha). I would also like to point out that although my opponent supports the legalization of substances such as alcohol and cannabis, I am only using those as examples to extend on my points toward other substances. A lot of the points I make you will see relate more to the prohibition of alcohol, and this is because this is the most notable historical example. We have not yet found all of the answers with the prohibition of drugs, because we have not legalized them, and analyzing it is a much more difficult task than analyzing the historical trends involved during alcohol prohibition. 1. The Iron Law of Prohibition: The iron law of prohibition is a term coined by Richard Cowan in 1986 which posits that as law enforcement becomes more intense, the potency of prohibited substances increases (1). The potency of narcotics, cocaine, alcohol, and marijuana increased significantly after the enactment of prohibition. In the United States during the past century, opium was virtually replaced by morphine and, later, morphine by heroin. The original Coca-Cola contained small concentrations of cocaine. Today cocaine is sold in the form of a high-potency powder or as concentrated nuggets called crack. During Prohibition, consumption of beer plummeted, and consumption of distilled spirits and moonshine increased. The potency of marijuana increased several hundred percent after a ""prohibitive"" tax was enacted in 1937. Synthetic narcotics and combinations of drugs, such as ""speedball"" (heroin and cocaine) or ""moonshot"" (crack cocaine and PCP), have been introduced (2). 2. The alternatives: My opponent made the case that me mentioning the rehabilitation centers was not an argument, but a compromise. My point in laying out the alternatives is not what should be done, but what could be done. So I will note that there can be alternatives to drug prohibition, and it is likely that they could arise in the event that drugs were to become legal. All my other points can be found in my previous arguments, and I'd like to give my opponent a final thank you for accepting my challenge and making this an excellent debate. 1. http://en.wikipedia.org... 2. Thorton, Mark. ""The Potency of Illegal Drugs."" The Economics of Prohibition. 89-90. Print."	PRO	122
122	Sfe78c1c3-A8aa26ce3	Dueling should be legalized	"Thanks, Civiero, for your articulate and spirited Libertarian argument for dueling. Given the ubiquity of prohibition of dueling in modern nations, your fight was always going to be an uphill one. I look forward to seeing what the voters think. == Closing Arguments / Summary == My opponent advocated for making dueling legal based on two grounds. I will summarize my perspective of the flow and final conclusions of the argument on these two points. -- Dueling is a Right -- My opponent's Libertarian argument is, at its basis, well-founded. My rebuttal, however, used one of the very few defenses accepted (in U.S. law, anyway) for overriding a person's rights: The Harm principle and the Legal Paternalism principle. Neither were explicitly named in my first rebuttal, but were nonetheless used. My point about cost to society was admitted by my opponent to have merit. His most effective counter was that nonconsensual medical treatment can't oblige the patient to change their behavior. This is not true; we are, in fact, obliged to pay for medical care given to us while unable to refuse that care. As I did not have space to introduce the principles for why that is, the reader is left to decide whether the medical consent argument is sufficient on its own. His other two counters still run aground, in my view, of the Harm principle and Legal Paternalism. Just because the line of 'too risky' is difficult to draw does not mean the state should decline to make any judgment about safety whatsoever, as well-evidenced by reasonable regulations on dangerous activities. A fuzzy line is still a line, and the precise location of that line is less important than when an activity is blatantly on the wrong side of it. Legal paternalism is the concept which my opponent most needs to dismantle. However, he has given no evidence to refute the state's interest in acting in loco parentis. He simply states that we have the right to risk ourselves at will. This is not a rebuttal to legal paternalism; it is a statement of preference. Even if we did have this right, this does not erase the responsibility of the state to try to prevent it. Indeed, my opponent mischaracterizes my argument. Far from wanting to draw a difference between dueling and other dangerous activities, legal paternalism treats them the same: Regulate them with the minimum amount of restrictions necessary to minimize the risk to life and health. It is the NATURE of dueling that makes the 'minimum restrictions necessary' a full prohibition. The lethality rate is far too high; other dangerous activities have, in the wake of this minimum regulation, been reduced to acceptable lethality rates. Non-lethal dueling, as ever, is known as boxing or martial arts exhibition matches, and are regulated, as usual, the minimum amount to be reasonably assured of safety for both participants. As I am applying the same standard to dueling as I am to all dangerous activities, and this standard has gone unaddressed save for what amounts to, ""I would prefer that legal paternalism not remain in force"", my opponent's rebuttal on rights grounds is ineffective. John Stuart Mills is not the only authority on the rights and liberties of mankind. -- Increased Public Safety, Culture of Honor -- We seem to have come to no solid conclusions in these matters. Who describes the more likely effects on our culture, and which of those effects is more desirable, is left as an exercise to the reader. I can only confidently say that I would not prefer to live in a society in which dueling was considered an acceptable form of conflict resolution. -- My Analogies -- As a note of clarification: My 'warning labels off chemicals' was intended as a wry rhetorical device for illustrative effect. The entire point behind the knight, the dragon, and the maiden was to contrast how incomparable those two motives were, and how the 'social pressure' reason was incompatible with rational decision making. My opponent actually correctly stated the point of the analogy even as he expressed the confusion of why I was using it. This means I need to refine my usage to make the relevance more clear. ----- Thanks to Civiero for a rousing debate. He was a tough opponent, demanding that my brain undergo a healthy workout. Regardless of the winner, that's the best possible result, from my perspective."	CON	123
123	Sd76b3024-A63868038	LSD should be legal under license	Rebuttals: “Those three reasons are pointless as they hardly indicate danger at all.” I presented the reason: “The inconsistent effects and potential adverse reactions lead to erratic use of LSD. This can be seen as exciting and users will not become bored.” This is potentially dangerous in that it encourages repeated behavior that is potentially hazardous to themselves or others. If you legalize the drug it will only become more frequent and hazardous consequences will happen. Even “bad trips” currently only happens 14.5% (gathered from your source: http://www.erowid.org...) of the time that will be amplified with the greater number of cases. “No one has ever become an LSD addict in the sense that they feel the have to have LSD.” LSD is not addictive but it can have a strong dependency. Like any drug with hallucinogenic and altered consciousness effects it can have a dependency like with marijuana. “There is 0% of overdosing.” Overdosing is possible. Source: - http://www.projectknow.com... - http://www.indyweek.com... “LSD users know what they are taking and the side effects it has. Just because its labeled an adverse affect doesn't mean its not a intended effect. Many people of the psychedelic community would have a goal of achieve ego death or becoming nothingness.” That may be true, however, that does not mean it is safe. A person on a powerful hallucinogen is not coherent or rational and, therefore, potentially dangerous. The adverse effects are called “adverse” because it is generally bad and even if it is intended by the user that does not mean it is always safe even with someone who may be experienced. LSD is a powerful drug that is unpredictable and playing with it is dangerous regardless of who you are. Firefighters have experience with raging fires but that does not mean they are invincible or will never get harmed from it because fire is a powerful force of nature. “These other drugs you listed have had proven dangers to a much greater state than LSD…” I would not say they are greater than LSD. Those dangers also only exist when those drugs are improperly prescribed. Benzodiazepines are only intended to be prescribed for short periods of time. Many doctors are letting their patients remain taking them for much longer than what the drug is intended. That is a result of lazy doctoring, not poor drugs. Doctors also may not prescribe the best drug for that specific case since there is a list to choose from. A similar scenario could happen with LSD if it is prescribed incorrectly. LSD has a long ways to go in research and dozens of adverse effects have already risen and risk for abuse is higher than with benzodiazepines. “Much of the same effects that have been misrepresented for LSD but only on untested and unproven theories.” I want to see a source for this. I didn’t find this in any of your listed sources. From what I have found the adverse effects are clearly supported by studies largely from the University of Maryland. Source: http://www.cesar.umd.edu... “Since LSD is so restricted and classed on the same level as heroin and even an higher level than methamphetamine or cocaine, that it is very hard to even give it a fair test or experiment.” That is not true. As a Schedule I drug meaning it is illegal to possess outside of a laboratory. This allows for studies to be done freely. There are universities that are experimenting with LSD so this claim in unfounded. “Far more lives have been ruined by these prescribed drugs than LSD (per captia).” That is only because LSD has far fewer recorded cases of use. Millions of people are prescribed benzodiazepines while less than a million are known to have taken LSD. If you raised the number of people regularly using LSD I am sure you would find more issues with that drug as well. “Making it legal only heightens safety in the way or eliminated drug deals and teaching people safety classes.” That is not necessarily true. Making drugs that are potentially dangerous to the users and to others legal to attempt regulating it does not always work. Suggested Reading: https://en.wikipedia.org... As I said before, how do you know the safety classes would work? Once someone starts their “trip” their reason and coherence drops significantly and anything they may have learned in their class will no longer matter. Their “trip sitter” may not be able to control them and may irresponsible as well as in potential danger. “People also reported that out of their entire history only 5% had ever had a bad trip.” According to your own source (http://www.erowid.org...) “14.5% report having experienced at least one “very” or “extremely” “bad trip””. Issues with Legislation: “Possession of LSD penalty can range from 6 months to 5 years and trafficking can range from 5 years to a death sentence.” That is wrong according to your own source (http://www.legalmatch.com...). There is no capital punishment with LSD trafficking. There is life imprisonment and with drug offenses parole is relatively easily obtained during the sentence. The life sentence is also for if a death or serious injury occurs to someone due to the crime. With LSD being a drug that can cause violent behavior to users it is possible. “There is no plaintiff. No one reported this crime. There is no victim.” There does not necessarily need to be an individual plaintiff in court. The government or the local community can be thought as the plaintiff in this type of trial. You will still be subject to a jury of your peers. In many cases someone does report the crime because they do not want LSD users in their neighborhood. There can be clear-cut victims if someone is harmed due to the crime. Otherwise, the fact that you were encouraging the use of LSD among other people makes the community as a whole your victim because the people do not want it occurring around them. That is majority rule in democracy. Questions of Legislation: The law as it stands now is well made for a drug that is potentially harmful to society and I do not agree with your solutions. You also have not answered all my questions before about your ideas of regulating the drug legalization. I do agree that we should be discussing that more than the effects of the drug itself as I think we have made our cases with that clear. You claim LSD makes lives better for people and will apparently improve society. How would our society be improved by legalizing a powerful hallucinogen for recreational use? I believe only the dangers of LSD use escalating if the drug is legalized. I am sure that is what the government has concluded as well which is why it is listed as a Schedule I drug. Questions from previous argument: How strict will your test be? What will be tested? What would be covered in the safety class? You should also consider the fact that this program you are suggesting may popularize LSD across the board. How do you know that people who are rejected from the program will still find a way to get the drug through illegal means? You are now giving out licenses for people to buy LSD legally if they pass your program. What will stop them from illegally selling it to people who could not pass your program? They can legally buy it and then secretly sell it for a profit to people who your program would have declared unfit or dangerous to have LSD. That would very likely increase the use of LSD because of its newfound convenience to find dealers who are now legally possessing LSD. You are effectively making LSD trafficking partly legal with your method.	CON	124
124	Sd76b3024-A9cfda97e	LSD should be legal under license	"You claim LSD has all these dangers but if it isnt actually harming the user how is that a bad thing. Just because the side effects exist doesn't mean that you will get them every single trip. As I stated before hundreds of thousands of people seem to find LSD a great drug and continue to go back to it and purchase it again. Why else would someone risk breaking the law in order to take LSD. If it was so bad and so dangerous why do so many people continue to take it. With the level of danger you are claiming we would be hearing about LSD dangers every single day on the news. As I state before only 4% of people said it effected their life negatively. My evidence is based on user reports who have first hand experience which is what counts rather than random reports of adverse effects placed out of context. If the users are enjoying it as an overall experience why is it such a bad thing? You can mention all the side effects you want but you still haven't listed any real danger. In the very few people that actually do suffer bad trips even they go on to take more LSD because they know the dangers of LSD yet realise that the good outways the bad. These side effects are noted by the user and are easily overcome with the right mindset. Firefighters train through experience. After they have done something enough they know how to handle a situation. The same applies with LSD, the more experience you have the easier it becomes to deal with. You also keep mentioning that LSD in unpredictable and dangerous. I would disagree because while every trip is unique it still produces the same basic effects that can be described. I also fail to see how the person is actually being put in danger. The survey shows the people overwhelmingly feel that they have a good time and are never actually placed in real danger that could threaten their life or health. One of your sources states that an ""LSD analogue"" caused someone to put themselves in danger but we are not discussing analogues, we are solely discussing the chemical that is LSD-25. Schedule I drugs can be studied in a lab but only after a very lengthy process and permission to do so from the government. I also ask that as I state above that LSD is in the same class as heroin and classed as even more dangerous than cocaine and methamphetamine. Do you actually agree that is causes more harm than these chemicals. You state that making drugs legal is going to cause everyone to start taking it and will all those dangers you listed, they are going to harm themselves very significantly even though 95% of people before them seemed to enjoy it. Denver recently legalised marijuana for recreational purposes and actually showed a drop in crime. The streets didnt explode with marijuana addicts and crime. Regulating these drugs is the future and it works and have been show to work in many other places such as Portugal and Netherlands. In the Netherlands marijuana use actually went down. They also have had magic mushrooms and truffles legalized. In being very chemically similar to LSD, the people there have not gone crazy and have seemed to hold onto there sanity even though they are being bombarded with all these adverse effects and dangers. I wouldnt know if the safety classes would work but it couldnt hurt and would hopefully teach people the best methods of staying safe. Teens are taught the dangers of alcohol and smoking in high school and of course there are still the ones who drink and smoke underage anyway. Despite what you may have heard without first hand experience you would not know that when under the influence of LSD you dont lose all control of your being and still are able to make rational choices unless you have a source proving otherwise. It impairs you to a lesser degree to alcohol which kills thousands of people every year. I was referring to other countries which still have the death penalty for drug offenses. And do you honestly believe that any amount of jail time and all the negatives that come with it is really worth a consenting adult being sent to prison. Should a person really be sent to prison for a simple act of free expression and control over their body. Why should it be the states business what a person does with there body. It is a simple issue of freedom. How can you take away someones freedom for simply wanting to be able to control ones own body. Yes legally there doesn't need to be a plaintiff but my point is that no one is being hurt and there is no victim that is lodging a complaint. You cant complain about what someone does in there own house that doesn't effect you. Ive never heard of a neighborhood coming together and declaring they hate LSD and think its a menace to society. LSD has been part of many great discoveries and people and even though you may say steve jobs though LSD was insignificant I quote ""One of the most important things in my life."" It has changed so many peoples live for the better. Here are some quotes from users about how it made their lives better. Provided a deeper unterstanding into the complicated maze that is the human and spiritual soul. A more clear perception of the sorrounding world and new possibilities to interpret it. It has made me realize how much of a gift life and how we all need to take care of our earth so in the future others will be able to experience the same gift that we have. Has opened my mind to countless possibilities. Made me more aware of the world around and within. Taught me to never accept reality at face value. Given me a keen interest in consciousness and perception. LSD has allowed me to witness reality in a perspective that one cannot comprehend in sobriety. LSD was indeed a kind of 'mind expansion' agent for me, opening up what was a rather narrow perception of life. However, I am unable to say if its physical effects were completely benign - the states of our brain health are too complex to assess the effects of only one factor. As yet, I have no regrets. LSD gave me a new perspective on just about everything that is considered reality. It really allowed me to see the importance of many things that I took for granted--it showed me the fine line between the twisting nether of philosophy and the systematic patterns of science and walked me through both. Without the experiences I've had during unfathomable trips to the depths of my mind and back... I would never understand the world as well as I do today. LSD altered my perception of how well we actually understand modernity. The discussions I had on LSD significantly affected my understanding of where society is, particular relative to where it's come from, and our understanding of that. Also, shortly after using LSD, the manner i go about using substances has changed. Essentially, I no longer seek a high, and am instead looking more to explore the mind expansion side of substance use. Emotionally, it was a real help through tough times. I've not used it in a number of years, but only because I can no longer safely and reliably procure it. I know it can be a double-edged sword for some, but I've nothing but glowing reports regarding my past LSD use. After several trips, and wanting to make some changes in the world, I realized that I needed to finish school so that someday I could make these changes. Then finished undergrad, med school, and became a doctor, and feel good about the changes I am helping make come about. As i said before the demand for drugs will always be there and those people who would seek it out illegally are no different from now. Except it would only make it safer for the majority of people wanting to purchase it legal https://www.erowid.org... http://rt.com... http://www.spiegel.de... https://ehs.mit.edu..."	PRO	125
125	Se03e76bf-Ae5d7aa3f	The Death Penalty Should be Abolished!	"The Death Penalty is Justified, but not entirely fair.... The Death Penalty has a good reason for its legality. It wants to punish the murderer in a way that never allows them to kill again. But think about it. If it's one for one life, yes, surely it is fair. But what about mass murderers? They're either insane or want to die anyways. Killing them would be an award, not a punishment. If we kept them alive, torturing them with boredom, terrible food, treatment, and extremely little ways to escape, then THAT would be a much better punishment than the Death Penalty. 2. Death Penalty costs much more than life sentence...and takes much longer Death penalty costs ""$186 million more than what those cases would have cost had the death penalty not existed as a punishment. "" [1] Furthermore, ""North Carolina could save $11 million annually if it dropped the death penalty."" In fact, the most complete study on the death penalty shows that each execution costs (North Carolina) $2.16 million more than each life-time imprisonment. [2] Take into account that within trials it also costs much more, as in Indiana, it costs more than 10 times as much as life parole. Source [1] also tells us that the death penalty costs up to $449,887 in the average case, while life-sentence costs only $42,658. It also takes much longer than life-without-parole....in fact, it takes SIX TIMES LONGER on average as found in a study within colorado. [3] These cases take so darn long, they take more than 4 calendar years longer!! [3] We need not waste time on death-penalty cases. Just give these people a life sentence. 3. The Death Penalty can kill innocent people.....forever What if there happens to be a break in the case one year after the execution? Then, you cannot go back. You cannot say ""I'm sorry, I release you"", as you could in a life sentence. Seriously. The death penalty is really unfair in some cases, as source [4]'s graph shows, these innocently killings do indeed happen. And although they might not add up to too much, this still shows how unfair the Death Penalty is. At least you can release these people any time you find a dramatic break through, and even if they might only have 5 years more to serve, the less the better. And keep in mind at least these people can live these 5 years normally. 4. Even more unfairness within discrimination It has been found that an insanely large amount of the majority victims of those who were murdered were white. [5] Although this might seem normal, these cases are very unfair against African-Americans. The American Bar Associator reported in 2007 that ""one-third of African-American death row inmates in Philadelphia would have received sentences of life imprisonment if they had not been African-American."" [6] Furthermore, a 2003 study from the University of Maryland shows that ""prosecutors are more likely to seek a death sentence when the race of the victim is white and are less likely to seek a death sentence when the victim is African-American."" [7] Finally, a study by the University of Yale shows that these African-Americans are far more criticized and worse treated, as ""African-American defendants receive the death penalty at three times the rate of white defendants in cases where the victims are white."" [8] All of this just shows how unfair the death penalty is. (And yes, I'm aware sources [6], [7] and [8] can all be found within source [5]. I just love using sources! And besides, what if source [5] is striked to be incorrect? Then I have 3 other sources to back it up. :P) 5. We are already losing way too much people Just counting the worst war of all, World War II, the world has lost 58 million people in total, with 300,000 American deaths. And with a total estimation, 82 million american soldiers have died within all the major wars. [9] And not only that, 2,515,458 people have been found to die by sickness. [10] We can't afford to lose more people to the Death Penalty. Which leads to my argument concerning.... 6. Low cost labor Not only can we punish those people with life-sentence, we can force them to labor at a low cost. This way, the courts can earn back some of the money spent on the trials and the imprisonment. These low-cost force labors can actually give companies benefits, especially during times of high unemployment, as a new source [11] shows us, prison labor indeed works out. In addition, source [12] shows that prison labor helps reform those crime-doers, so we could possibly even release them early from their life-sentences if they have really really good behavior, or punish them less and allow them to have perhaps better food or a cleaner cell. In fact, prison labor is so effective that the executive director of Maryland Correctional Enterprises claims that these laboring in-mates return to prison half as often as those who don't work in prisons. (also from source [12].) 7. It is religiously wrong Many religious people as well as organizations have published many works that show the Death Penalty against faith, and against religion. [13] In fact, the Presbyterian Church said in 1959, ""the use of the death penalty tends to brutalize the society that condones it."" [14] Furthermore, the testaments are outdated. We have already eliminated the death penalty for homosexuality, pre-marital sex, adultery, blasphemy, etc, etc. We should eliminate the death penalty for murder as well. It's simply wrong, violence to dissolve violence. Not only that, a Quaker group also does not support the death penalty, and for a very good reason: the death penalty lowers the value of human life and supports the proposition in the need of revenge. As the Quaker group says, ""(It) violates our belief in the human capacity for change....[It] powerfully reinforces the idea that killing can be a proper way of responding to those who have wronged us. We do not believe that reinforcement of that idea can lead to healthier and safer communities."" [14] The evidence above all show that the Death Penalty is widely unsupported, especially by religion and religious people. We should abolish the death penalty. 8. Death Penalty is ineffective Year 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Murder Rate in Death Penalty States* 9.94 9.51 9.69 9.23 8.59 7.72 7.09 6.51 5.86 5.70 5.82 5.82 5.91 5.71 5.87 5.90 5.83 5.72 5.26 5.00 4.89 Murder Rate in Non-death Penalty States 9.27 8.63 8.81 7.88 6.78 5.37 5.00 4.61 4.59 4.25 4.25 4.27 4.10 4.02 4.03 4.22 4.10 4.05 3.90 4.01 4.13 Percent Difference 7% 10% 10% 17% 27% 44% 42% 41% 28% 35% 37% 36% 44% 42% 46% 40% 42% 41% 35% 25% 18% See chart above. From [15] In conclusion.... -Death penalty is morally unfair -Death penalty is biased and discriminatory -Death penalty costs way too much -Death penalty= more deaths; we have too much deaths already -We can use low-cost labor to earn money AND reform the prisoners! What could be better? -The Death Penalty is widely against religion and many religious groups. -Death penalty is ineffective Onto you, Uchi. Let's see what you have to say. [1] http://www.deathpenaltyinfo.org... [2] http://www.deathpenaltyinfo.org... [3] http://www.deathpenaltyinfo.org... [4] http://www.deathpenaltyinfo.org... [5] http://www.amnestyusa.org... [6] http://v.gd... [7] http://www.deathpenaltyinfo.org... [8] http://www.deathpenaltyinfo.org... [9] http://scienceline.ucsb.edu... [10] http://www.cdc.gov... [11] http://www.huffingtonpost.com... [12] http://v.gd... [13] http://www.deathpenalty.org... [14] http://fcnl.org... [15] http://v.gd..."	PRO	126
126	S7ad5a1f-A1748dc	Death penalty should be allowed	"Rebuttals to opponent's arguments: It seems my opponent advocates the ""eye for an eye"" morality. What makes this morality superior? While they stated the golden rule, that doesn't make a whole lot of sense here. You wouldn't want to be killed if you murdered someone, right? So why should the murderer be killed when you, yourself, wouldn't want to be killed? Unless you're suicidal, you wouldn't want to be killed, so the golden rule would actually be reason against the death penalty. Now, as I said, what my opponent actually seems to advocate is the eye for an eye morality. To quote Gandhi ""An eye for an eye makes the whole world go blind"". We would be no better than the murderer by killing them. My main arguments: 1) The death penalty is more expensive than life in prison sentences. No matter what state you look at, lawsuits where the death penalty is the goal, are a lot more expensive, as much asmillions of dollars more expensive in some cases[1]. Over all, capital punishment is much more expensive than life imrisonment without the possibility of parole[2] 2) The death penalty is making us less safe. ""The exorbitant costs of capital punishment are actually making America less safe because badly needed financial and legal resources are being diverted from effective crime fighting strategies. Before the Los Angeles riots, for example, California had little money for innovations like community policing, but was managing to spend an extra $90 million per year on capital punishment. Texas, with over 300 people on death row, is spending an estimated $2.3 million per case, but its murder rate remains one of the highest in the country. "" [2] So, since resources and money is being spent on the death penalty instead of in other areas, it is actually making America less safe, not more safe. 3) There are people who are innocent who get the death penalty I consider it much worse to end the life of someone who is innocent of the crime. We don't have a perfect justice system, so we shouldn't be using extreme punishments such as ending the life of someone. It's estimated that 4.1% of those sentenced to the death penalty are innocent[3], but only 1.9% are ever discovered to be innocent after that they are convicted. How is the death penalty justifiable at all, when there is a chance for innocent people being killed? At least with life in prison without the chance of parole, there is a longer amount of time for us to discover new evidence that would make the person innocent. Once a person is dead, it wouldn't matter if new evidence arose that proved their innocent: you can't undo the death of that person. Sources: [1] http://www.deathpenaltyinfo.org... [2] http://www.deathpenaltyinfo.org... [3] http://www.pnas.org..."	CON	127
127	Sa3c027ad-A5b254990	The United States Federal Government's War on Drugs should be ended.	"Thank you, 16kadams, for accepting this debate. Contention 1+: Expense The federal government currently spends $23.44 billion dollars per year to fund the War on Drugs [1], and that's not even counting any possible economic gains from people not being imprisoned and turning to a life of crime (statistically more likely to occur when people are jailed even for non-violent offenses [2]) and instead continuing their life contributing to the economy, nor does it include any gains from taxing a newly regulated drug industry in whichever states would have them. Contention 2+: Rights People have a right to their own bodies, and the right to put what they want into their own bodies. Drugs are no exception. The federal government should not be restricting people's rights. It's dangerous once government controls what may or may not go into your brain, for this is a power easily abused. Additionally, the current drug war is unconstitutional. It took the 18th Amendment to prohibit alcohol [3], but no such amendment currently exists for the prohibition of drugs. Additionally, the 10th Amendment leaves all unenumerated powers to the states [4], leaving them with the responsibility of either prohibiting or regulating the drug industry. Contention 3+: Negative Effects Many people die as a result of the drug war, including even people who wish to use any drugs deemed illegal [5]. The drug war sends drug users and dealers underground, resulting in more organised crime, violence (drug cartels can't use the legal system to settle disputes), corruption, spread of disease, and other social problems [6]. Additionally, the prohibition only encourages smuggling by lowering the legal supply, which leads to an illegal, thus with more risk, cost, and profit, supply. As former federal nartotics officer Michael Levine describes: ""I learned that not only did they not fear our war on drugs, they counted on it to increase the market price and to weed out the smaller, inefficient drug dealers. They found U.S. interdiction efforts laughable. The only U.S. action they feared was an effective demand reduction program. On one undercover tape-recorded conversation, a top cartel chief, Jorge Roman, expressed his gratitude for the drug war, calling it “a sham put on for the American taxpayer” that was actually “good for business” [7]. Conclusion +: The War on Drugs is basically paying billions of dollars illegally to strict the rights of Americans, kill many of them either directly or indirectly, spread social problems, and grant higher profits to drug cartels. That will be all for now. Your turn, 16kadams. 1. http://actionamerica.org...; 2. http://www.mosac.mo.gov...; 3. http://www.law.cornell.edu...; 4. http://tenthamendmentcenter.com...; 5. http://www.drugwarrant.com...; 6. http://www.bmj.com... 7. http://en.wikipedia.org..."	PRO	128
128	Sa3c027ad-A48676c15	The United States Federal Government's War on Drugs should be ended.	Resolved, that the federal government should end its current War on Drugs. http://en.wikipedia.org... This debate will start in Round 2; Round 1 is for acceptance only. Good luck, 16kadams.	PRO	129
129	Sb2c5f871-A5a2cef1d	Solitary Confinement Use Should be Reduced and Elimanted	"Solitary Confinement has been around ever since the 1970""s, it is the act in which an inmate is put into a room with only a cot, toilet, and sink. It usually used for punishment, inmates"" own protection, or other inmates"" protection. The prisoner is usually held for an average of 23 hours, depending on the severity of the situation. Solitary Confinement, also called the SHU, is used mainly for the purpose of punishment for a prisoner. The prisoner will receive little to no human contact and can be held in there for as long as the officers see fit. So, the prisoner could spend up to a year in solitary confinement, the prisoner will usually be held for about 23 hours a day. Little or no personal items are able to be accessed when in the SHU. Solitary Confinement is not meant to be cruel, it is only meant as a form of punishment or safety. When you are in prison, you are supposed to turn your life around. Do your time and never go back. That""s just what solitary confinement does, being in there allows one to think over their wrong doings. Being in Solitary Confinement will certainly build character over time. Solitary Confinement is also a perfect way for a prisoner to truly serve their sentence. ""So, solitary confinement would allow for sentences to be served more accurately in a morally appropriate fashion."" Says the Anonymous author. People say that solitary confinement is one of the hardest ways to do time, which isn""t entirely wrong. Prisoners shouldn""t get the easy pass, they should have to serve their time, the hardest and toughest way. To my last point, safety. Solitary Confinement provides safety, not just for themselves, but to all the other inmates and officers. They are of no danger to themselves or anyone else. http://connectusfund.org... http://www.npr.org... http://www.afsc.org... -I would like to thank my opponent for introducing such an interesting topic. - I would also like to thank you for making a strong, reasonable argument."	CON	130
130	Sb2c5f871-Adf0d2a7c	Solitary Confinement Use Should be Reduced and Elimanted	I believe that solitary confinement should be phased out of prisons within the United States and eventually eliminated in its current form. Terms: Solitary confinement (or segregation)- placing an inmate within an isolated cell for a period longer than 72 hours for either protection of the inmate, protection of other inmates/the prison, or as a means of punishment. Current Form- Isolated for 23 hours or more in a cell that generally is lit with artificial light 24 hours a day, has nothing more than a cot, sink, and toilet, has no personal items or stimuli, and has little to no human contact for the entirety of their time in segregation. Rules: 1. First Round is for acceptance only 2. Not forfeiting 3. Be respectful, site your sources or post the links at the end of each round, make clear, valid points. 4. No trolling. Format: Round 1: Acceptance of debate Round 2: Intro into your argument, offer a broad outline of your main points with sources you plan to use outright. Round 3: Counter-Argument/Further main points, use this round to further your main points or in order to argue against my main points. (Post any additional sources) Round 4: Conclusion and closing statements This is my first debate on here so if I do anything poorly, or just wrong please let me know and I will do my best to fix the problem. Thank you for your understanding and I am excited for my first debate.	PRO	131
131	S328198b3-Ae3ee1acb	The US should adopt a ban on all semiautomatic firearms	"Thank you Pro for your arguments. Since the premise of this debate is based of reducing gun fatalities and implementing a gun buyback program, I will make arguments according to that hypothetical scenario. (1) Gun owners will likely not comply with a buyback program The United States had achieved its independence through violence, and the rifle is a sentimental tool that is instilled in American culture. Unlike many other countries, owning firearms is a right, and polling data shows that 87% of Americans are not in favor of banning weapons [1]. Since a buyback program would force people to give up their guns, it’s highly doubtful whether most gun owners would comply. The 2nd amendment mentions “a well-regulated militia, necessary for the security of a free state”, which means the right to bear arms is there to prevent tyranny. Historical incidents involving Nazi Germany and the British Empire have shown how those governments took away arms as means to control a certain population, so any buyback program imposed on Americans would be interpreted as tyranny. Given this situation, it’s unlikely that many gun owners will give away their guns, unless it is done by force. To do that, the U.S government needs to violate the 4th amendment, and it will not be a peaceful transition. Before we even debate the effects of a buyback, it’s highly doubtful whether it will properly take place! (2) Only affects gun owners who are law-abiding The problem with banning semi-automatic fire-arms is that most gun owners use them responsibly and are in no way a danger to other people. If a ban were to be put in place, it would only affect those who use these weapons lawfully. What incentive do criminals have to turn over their guns? According to a study done at Cook County Jail in Chicago, of the 70 inmates who had possessed a firearm, only 2.9% had bought it at a gun store [2]. Now, this may only be a study done in one city, but most of America’s gun crimes are committed in the inner cities, so it’s reasonable to assume that similar trends would be observed in other crime hot-spots like Memphis and Detroit. If we assume that only 3 % of gun crime is committed by legal obtained firearms, the math should show the following: Out of 414,562 gun crimes committed annually, just around 12,440 of those crimes are committed by those who legally bought those weapons. Now consider that there are roughly 80 million legal gun owners in the U.S. Out of those gun owners, just 0.0001555% of them used it for crime. It would be outrageous to create any legislation that addresses a crime figure that is so insignificant, while taking away the rights of 80 million gun owners (approx.). (3) Legal gun owners use fire-arms for self-defense A good reason not to ban semi-automatic firearms is that law-abiding Americans use them for self-defense. There is a major caveat that ought to be mentioned and that the real number of self-defensive gun use cannot be accurately predicted. The reason for that is often, gun owners manage to thwart of their attacker by merely brandishing their weapon, and there simply is no incentive for them to report it to the police. The lowest SDGU estimates range from 55,000, all the way to 4.7 million times per year. There has been dispute on the real figures from both political sides, but the most commonly cited figure comes from Gary Kleck, who’s research has estimated around 2.5 million SDGU annually (3). To understand what these numbers mean, you need to compare it to the total gun crimes committed by gun owners. Say we take the lowest possible SGDU figures, that number is still 4 times greater than crimes committed by legal gun owners. Therefore, the positive impact that is created by legal gun ownership outweighs the negatives are caused by it. (4) Gun bans in other countries had no effect on their homicide rates Countries such as Britain and Australia have outlawed or severely restricted semi-automatic firearms, but data on their homicide shows that the ban had no measurable impact. [4] In the cases of both countries, there is an initial spike (could be attributed to another factor) but the trend before and after the bans are relatively the same. It only goes on to prove that banning guns doesn't really affect the overall homicide rate. It should allow be mentioned that during this time period, the U.S experienced a greater drop in homicide than Australia.[5] (5) Illegal gun market Guns are in incredibly high demand, especially when talk of potential regulation arises. By completely banning them, you open the doors illegal gun trading. The U.S federal government has abysmal record when it comes to prohibition. Alcohol was banned in the 20’s however it didn’t much to prevent the demand and allowed crime bosses like Al Capone to make billions from illicit trading. It was such a failure, that the 18th amendment was repealed. Now we are currently facing the poorly managed “War on Drugs” which hasn't done much to stop the drug trade amongst gangs. If we were to declare a “war on Guns”. It would be even more disastrous. Guns are not like alcohol and drugs where you need to replenish after you use them. A gun can last for several decades if used properly, so criminals can already gain access to the 320 million firearms that are already floating around in the U.S to commit crime, and it will last them for a long time. If the government has already failed to stop illegal drug usage, it can't do much to stop illegal gun trading. Even if we hypothetically agree that the government somehow manages to confiscate all firearms, the rise of 3D printing and private gunsmiths assure that criminals will still find a way to get access to guns. Even in China where private gun ownership is banned, 15,000 illegal firearms still made it's way to those who wanted them. Prohibition is no gurantee of success, especially in America where gun culture thrives. [6] (6) Economic impact An interesting angle to consider is the economic impact of banning guns. ""Companies in the United States that manufacture, distribute and sell firearms, ammunition and hunting equipment employ as many as 132,584 people in the country and generate an additional 155,402 jobs in supplier and ancillary industries. These include jobs in companies supplying goods and services to manufacturers, distributors and retailers, as well as those that depend on sales to workers in the firearms and ammunition industry. [7] ""These are good jobs, paying an average of $50,180 in wages and benefits. And today, every job is important. In fact, workers in the United States face an unemployment rate of 5 percent. This means that there are already nearly 8 million people trying to find jobs in the nation and collecting unemployment benefits."" ""The firearms and ammunition industry generates sizable tax revenues. In the United States the industry and its employees pay $6.2 billion in taxes including property, income, and sales-based levies"". While I'm certainly not suggesting that profits should be valued over human life, the trickle-down affect of unemployment shouldn't be understated. If a gun ban is passed, most of these people will lose their jobs, and the economy will lose billions, which could have been reinvested for other purposes. Unemployment undeniably is connected to poverty and crime, and we only need to observe cities like Detroit, where the manfacturing industry was hit hard by the 2008 recession. Sources: 1: http://www.pollingreport.com... 2:https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org... 3:https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org... 4:https://mises.org... 5:http://www.gunfacts.info... 6:http://www.ibtimes.com... 7:https://www.nssf.org..."	CON	132
132	S6eefc0cc-A490934e2	The Death Penalty should be legal	This is going to be a long debate. There will be 5 rounds. My opponent is Tejretics Structure 1. Acceptance 2. Arguments 3. Arguments 4. Rebuttals, Defending Case 5, Conclusion Note: You cannot start your arguments in the 1,4, and 5 round. You can't rebut in the 1,5 rounds. You can rebut in the 3rd and 2nd round though. Rules 1. No forfeits 2. No trolling 4. Over 2500 ELO to accept. 5. Over age 13 unless you are tejretics or famousdebater. 6. Over 3000 ELO to vote. 7. Have fun! Definitions 1. Death Penalty: The practice or legal sanction of allowing the imposition of punishment of death for people convicted of certain crimes. Legal: of or relating to the law Sources 1. http://www.merriam-webster.com... 2. http://www.thefreedictionary.com... Thank you. Thanks to tejretics.	PRO	133
133	S6eefc0cc-Ac665555d	The Death Penalty should be legal	Pro concedes (see comments section).	CON	134
134	S6eefc0cc-Ab009b7e8	The Death Penalty should be legal	I accept.	CON	135
135	S6eefc0cc-A2fc9daa1	The Death Penalty should be legal	Extend.	CON	136
136	S99be9510-A98dfef3a	Should juveniles be tried as adults	Con	CON	137
137	S99be9510-Aae258862	Should juveniles be tried as adults	Extend	CON	138
138	S712e9d27-Aa2869970	The United States should decriminalize drugs.	Accepted. Good luck to Pro as well!	CON	139
139	Sa3c027ad-Ad5a33dfa	The United States Federal Government's War on Drugs should be ended.	"Thank you, 16kadams, for your response. Contention 1-: The War on Drugs has worked My opponent's first claim is that Portugal's decision to end its own war on drugs, replacing it with decriminalization and treatment, worked. This gives no reason to believe the war worked; in fact, it's quite the opposite, because if ending the war improves things unexpectedly, then continuing the war will not. He also gives statistics on our own War on Drugs, pointing out that drug abuse went down about a third in twenty years, which is unimpressive compared to Portugal's 50% reduction in only ten years [1]. In fact, many countries see reduction in drug abuse after decriminalizing laws on particular drugs [2][3]. The seemingly important fact about cocaine usage dropping is more likely due to trends in drug use than any particular policy, being replaced by other drugs such as herion [4]. I find the fact that 95% of Americans do not use drugs unimpressive, as there is no indication at all that this was due to any action of government and countries without such massive wars on drugs have similar statistics. My opponent points to the (notably illegal) production of marijuana in the Netherlands, but it means nothing. Just because 100 tons were grown in one year doesn't mean that it is grown more than before, especially not relative to the rising population. My opponent is drawing a line from a single point; this is just bad math [5]. The ""normalization"" argument is just about the only legitimate objection to legalizing drugs, although it evidently does not occur in every society that decriminalizes drugs, but this is most definitely outweighed by the immense societal and economics costs of continuing the War on Drugs. Contention 1+: The War on Drugs is expensive My opponent claims that drug abuse costs so much money to American society, but the important question is, how? It is impossible to refute the claim without knowing what calculations went into it. Did they include what people could have been producing, but didn't, because they were high? If so, they made the mistake of disregarding psychic income (personal statisfaction from an activity [6]) and only focusing on monetary income; there is no reason to take their priorities over those of the American people. The sum also most likely includes the $110 billion ""lost"" to job productivity, even though my opponent tries to recreate this as a separate contention. While law enforcement costs may be lower than the total cost of the War on Drugs ($2.6 billion per year a few years ago [7]), that's still a lot of money, and there's no reason that the federal government should be involved in prevention and treatment when the states can handle that perfectly well if they so choose. My opponent also failed to address my concerns of the economic loss of jailing non-violent offenders, which includes both the cost of prison and the loss of production later in life and can lead to more damage to society by creating criminals. This does not offer the psychic income alternative, as I doubt anyone prefers being in jail to leading a productive life. Contention 2+: People have a right to drugs My opponent's examples of where we can't do anything we want with our bodies miss the point. Nudity is only illegal in public; no just government will outlaw being nude in your own house. Additionally, people can yell ""hijack"" all they want in their own homes; on airlines, however, people voluntarily give up their right to yell ""hijack"" so that the airplane industry allows them on the planes. There is no rights issue with an airline annoucing that those who ride on their planes may yell ""hijack"" to their hearts' content. He then demonstrates that he has quite likely never read the United States Constitution. He first claims that all American rights are listed in the Constitution, but nothing could be further from the truth; the Constitution even specifically states that there are rights not listed in the Constitution through the Ninth Amendment, which was appropriately enough written to avoid the very implication for which my opponent argues [8]. I have also never read anything in the Constitution stating any generalities about rights, although my opponent is free to show us where such a statement exists. In any case, the Tenth Amendment prevents the federal government from being involved, period. Drug policy is up to the states. I should add that states retain the right to continue the war on drugs within their own borders; this debate only concerns the federal government. The states can continue to inhibit drug use to prevent whetever concerns my opponent chooses to raise, but this would at least return that power to the individual states instead of the federal government. If the people of California think marijuana should be legal, then such is their right, and they shouldn't be forced to pay for drug enforcement in Massachusetts. My opponent claims that drugs hurt people, but this is false. People hurt people. Non-violent people can become unintentionally dangerous when they use cars, matches, power tools, guns, alcohol, and some other drugs, but does that mean that we should wage war on all of these things? Not at all. We tried Prohibition, but that failed miserably [9], and we see the same effects today. My opponent also points out that drug use can have negative effects on others, but so can going skydiving, joining a rock band, giving up a diet, not showering, overworking, or going without sleep for extended periods of time, but it would be a folly to introduce government regulation to stop these private decisions. The effects mentioned are all either negative effects already consented to by the party taking the drug, peer pressure that is still up to the individual to follow or not follow, and driving under the influence, which would still be illegal even if the federal government abolished every activity it currently performs. Contention 2-: Drugs promote crime My opponent's source actually suggests that the relationship between drug use and crime is very complex and not fully understood, but my opponent in spite of it concludes that drug use causes crimes. Milton Friedman observed that crime committed by addicts is necessitated by their addiction combined with the high cost of drugs resulting from criminalization, so less regulation would lead to less crime. Ending the drug war would also lower the profits of black markets and greatly reduce their ability to bribe policemen [10]. Therefore, it is not drugs, but the War on Drugs, that promotes crime. Contention 3+: The War on Drug has many unintended consequences I already pointed out how the War on Drugs kills many innocent bystanders [11, my previous link broke through a glitch]. Some of them were model citizens, and none of them deserved to die. I also pointed out how the War results in a plethora of other social problems and even strengthens the most powerful drug cartels. My opponent has apparently neglected this contention; I should hope he addresses it next round. Conclusion: The War on Drugs is an unconstitutional barrage on our rights that degrades society and kills many good, innocent people, and should be ended as soon as possible. 1. http://www.forbes.com...; 2. http://www.reuters.com... 3. http://www.guardian.co.uk...; 4. http://www.infoplease.com... 5. http://demonstrations.wolfram.com...; 6. http://www.unc.edu... 7. http://www.cnbc.com...; 8. http://civilliberty.about.com...; 9. http://www.cato.org... 10. http://www.druglibrary.org... 11. http://www.drugwarrant.com..."	PRO	140
140	S564603a4-A4aad7d89	The death penalty should exist.	due to this complication, I ask voters to simply standby for now. unless they believe one of our arguments up until this point is irrefutable. thankyou	PRO	141
141	S965182df-A7a967f98	All drugs should be legalized.	Be respectful and classy, and thanks to anyone who accepts!	PRO	142
142	S965182df-Ab5bb035c	All drugs should be legalized.	I accept, I look forward to an interesting argument	CON	143
143	S965182df-A7c28bbe9	All drugs should be legalized.	Thanks for accepting my challenge! To begin, here are the definitions I believe to be relevant to this debate: Drugs-a medicine or other substance which has a physiological effect when ingested or otherwise introduced into the body. Legalize- make (something that was previously illegal) permissible by law. Decriminalize- cease by legislation to treat (something) as illegal. Economy- the wealth and resources of a country or region, especially in terms of the production and consumption of goods and services. Feel free to add definitions you see beneficial, or adjust my current definitions. I was thinking about adding in definitions of drugs themselves, but I changed my mind, unless you think it'd be beneficial.	PRO	144
144	Se03e76bf-Ad668803e	The Death Penalty Should be Abolished!	"Excellent arguments, Uchi. I will now rebut every one of them. http://www.youtube.com... 1. The Death Penalty is Fair? Now, as I said before, one life for one life might be fair. Might, not is. The death penalty might be fair for those who have only murdered one person, but what about one life for 10 others? 15 for that matter? Then....the quote from Escape Plan comes in and applies to this situatio:. ""Taking a man's life is nothing. Taking away his family....that's everything."" (See video for source) You see, it's simply not enough to kill a mass murderer of many. He must have a greater punishment. And taking away his family is the gravest punishment possible, much greater and more fair than the Death Penalty. You are torturing him from the inside, letting him suffer for all his horrid deals, and you let him live, the real punishment, instead of simply letting him die. The death penalty is just too quick, too fast, it's nothing in comparison to keeping him in prison and taking away his family. ""Can anyone honestly claim that the men who committed such atrocities deserve anything less than the most serious possible punishment that the government can feasibly administer?"" See? Even my opponent agrees. This argument, I agree and rest my case. 2. Deterrence a. DP effect is neutral? It might be, but life sentence is obviously more leaning towards the positive side. b. DP deters crime? Then why is it less effective than life sentence somehow? There is some morals and philosophies at work here. Either those other states have amazing police (which is likely not the case), or those crime-commitors actually fear the life sentence more. 3. Recidivism My opponent tries to talk about the release of prisoners. But--have these people been forced to labor in the prisons? No? Then I rest my case concerning prison cheap labor. My opponent also talks about the murder rates within prisons the same as in the average American town. Well, if the Death Penalty was justified for these dudes anyways, these prisoners actually saved us money. Thank you, thank you. My case is still sleeping here. CONCLUSION I've effectively rebutted my opponent's case, and my previous massive round (extroardinarily effectively using up the character space all the way until only about 20-or-so characters) still powerfully remains strong, buff, and gloriously shining on the mountain of awesomeness. Death Penalty is still unfair, it still costs way too much, it can kill the innocent, is discriminating, does not help to contribute to the deaths, and labor would be able to punish these evil-doers even further while earning back the funds we spend on prisons and the federal cases. The end. PSYCH!! That's not it. Uchi has yet to rebut my religious arguments, and the fact that all my sources point toward the ineffectiveness of the death penalty. Just in case my source is attacked in my opponent's rebuttal, I shall, right here, provide another source clearly showing how ineffective the death penalty really is. http://www.dailyiowan.com... Tada!! There we go, a professional law attorney upping what I said about the death penalty releasing the murderer rather than actually giving him a punishment. In fact, most prisoners actually prefer death to life sentence as my source confirms. So Ray Breslin was right. Taking away your life really IS nothing if all you did was take a life. However, taking away your family.... that's everything. Back to you, Uchi. You'll have to try harder than your last round to rebut my round AND restrengthen your arguments. Good luck."	PRO	145
145	Se03e76bf-Aa0ea175	The Death Penalty Should be Abolished!	I accept (Take Two)	CON	146
146	Se03e76bf-Ac9c5745f	The Death Penalty Should be Abolished!	Nobody vote on that other debate. This is the official one. We'll be copying from the last debate. Rules are exactly the same as the other debate. This is my 205th debate, coincidentally.	PRO	147
147	Sd76b3024-Aae81c3aa	LSD should be legal under license	"Rebuttles: “With the level of danger you are claiming we would be hearing about LSD dangers every single day on the news.” Not every murder is put on the news. Approximately 45 murders occur in the United States every day. You might hear about one or two on an average day on national news if that. Drug-related crime is fairly common with people who are under the influence of a drug; especially a powerful, mind-altering hallucinogen like LSD that can cause a psychotic episode. LSD has a reputation of causing people to become violent and unpredictable. Reputations like that do not happen without a reason. Source: http://tizona.wordpress.com... Suggested Reading: - http://www.pantagraph.com... - http://www.sfgate.com... “These side effects are noted by the user and are easily overcome with the right mindset.” I believe you are assuming far too much from potential users. You are assuming that all of the people who use or will use LSD are going to be responsible about it. That is like selling guns to everyone assuming anybody who would buy a gun is going to be responsible and in the right mindset. That is a dangerous assumption and if you read the suggested reading above you know that not everyone is responsible. “Schedule I drugs can be studied in a lab but only after a very lengthy process and permission to do so from the government.” Your source does not support this statement. “I also ask that as I state above that LSD is in the same class as heroin and classed as even more dangerous than cocaine and methamphetamine. Do you actually agree that is causes more harm than these chemicals.” I researched and compared all three and come to the conclusion that I believe it is categorized appropriately. You have to remember that the drugs are classified not necessarily due to its health hazards but also for social reasons. The DEA is more concerned about its likelihood of abuse rather than its actual health effects on the abusers. The possible widespread use of hazardous chemicals is of more concern than the actual effects on the body to the government. The government’s purpose is to maintain our society and legalizing potentially hazardous chemicals for public use is not productive toward that goal. If it were only about its health hazards I would agree that cocaine should be higher than LSD, but that is not the purpose of the classification. “Denver recently legalised marijuana for recreational purposes and actually showed a drop in crime. The streets didnt explode with marijuana addicts and crime.” I never actually said that and marijuana is not a very dangerous drug. If I actually stated that you should have quoted me although I am certain I didn’t say that. I am aware that drug crime went down after legalization in Colorado; I watch the news. I was criticizing your methodology of legalizing LSD that would very possibly lead to that outcome because you were unintentionally encouraging illegal sales of LSD. “Despite what you may have heard without first hand experience you would not know that when under the influence of LSD you dont lose all control of your being and still are able to make rational choices unless you have a source proving otherwise. It impairs you to a lesser degree to alcohol which kills thousands of people every year.” Again, you are assuming that everyone will be responsible. That is and will not necessarily be the case. There are irresponsible users of drugs such as alcohol, meth, and LSD. People who are responsible I am sure do well to avoid overdosing and losing control, but many do not. You cannot guarantee the safety of those around them when this happens. The effects of LSD overdose are very hazardous potentially leading to psychotic episodes or simply violent behavior that is unpredictable. I have found a source that does oppose your statement written by a professor of psychology: “2. Myth -- A Friend or Guide Can Prevent You From Having a Bad Trip Well-meaning proponents of LSD have promoted the idea that having a friend or ""guide"" with you while you are on LSD will prevent you from experiencing a bad trip. Supposedly, a grounded, intuitive, and open-minded person can say just the right thing or support you in just the way you need, to ensure you have a marvelous time on LSD. “Truth -- While having a supportive friend can often help with a bad trip, even people who have experience with LSD and training in psychotherapy are sometimes unable to prevent others from having a negative reaction to the drug. Friends can easily be perceived as enemies by someone experiencing paranoia while they are tripping. And there are plenty of examples of people having bad trips while in the company of those who care about them.” Sources: - http://www.projectknow.com... - http://addictions.about.com... In Reply to the Quotes: According to Elizabeth Hartney, PhD in psychology: “5. Myth -- Acid is the Key to Unlocking the Unconscious Mind Many people who take LSD believe that acid unlocks your awareness of your unconscious, can give you access to repressed material from your past, and can reveal hidden truths about yourself and about humanity. Truth -- Taking LSD might get you thinking about things in a way you haven't thought of before, but it does not give you a key to the inner workings of your mind. Acid is just as likely to get you thinking about things that have no basis in reality as uncovering hidden truths. And just because you have taken LSD and thought about your past doesn't mean you know or understand everything that has happened to you -- sometimes genuinely repressed traumatic events emerge during psychotherapy, long after the individual has discontinued the drug. Some people don't remember traumatic events that happened to them at all, and in some cases, this might be for the best.” All those people, as respectable as they may beg, are kidding themselves. LSD is a manmade hallucinogen, not some magical substance made by pixy fairies. It disrupts your neurotransmitters acting like serotonin, basically manipulating your brain in ways it is not supposed to. It also affects the way your retinas process visual information playing tricks on the eyes. What you perceive while under the influence of LSD is all fake and unnatural and, therefore, has no basis in reality. Source: http://science.howstuffworks.com... Conclusion: I have stated that LSD is a drug that is not only harmful to the user, but is ultimately harmful to society. I think the majority of us agree that what individual people do to themselves do not entirely matter to us. What does matter is what it does to society as a whole. People on LSD cannot be expected to act responsibly and the methods brought forth by pro fails to convince me that it can be managed. Pro also fails to answer all of my questions about how LSD legalization would be managed. We all know that LSD is a more potent drug than marijuana. People on LSD have violent and unpredictable tendencies that are far more serious. We need to consider what is actually best for our communities and if legalizing LSD is actually productive to that end. I do not see how legalizing this Schedule 1 drug for recreational can be productive."	CON	148
148	S6702cc42-Acd991a16	Abortion should be legal	Because the world is overpopulated, And there is no need for life to exist, Thus abortion is indeed a solution and a remedy after irresponsible intercourse.	PRO	149
149	S54b181c-A2cd3df7f	School Uniform Should Be Banned	"I disagree that school uniforms cost little. A survey commissioned by YouGov shows us clear evidence that it is expensive. ï¿½110 is spent on school uniform and ""20 on school shoes each year on average in the UK, whereas if pupils were to wear their own clothes, parents would not have to waste money. Education is supposed to be free, and yet we have to pay for uniforms. In the event of a crime, everyone is wearing the same so it will be difficult to identify the culprit. Teachers often have to spend time telling pupils to tuck their shirts in, or tie their tie properly, etc. Isn't education more important than that?"	PRO	150
150	Sd257d98c-A288f9323	Child pornography should be legal to posses.	"Apparently my opponent insists on playing the ""victimless"" card in this debate. So I suppose it is my job to refute this standpoint. In my opinion, there is no such thing as a victimless crime. Drugs hurt the taxpayer's who must pay for their rehabilitation, and CP harms all children by its presence, increasing the likelihood that they will be sexually abused in the future. I doubt my opponent denies that the mere presence of CP increases the risk of child molestation. Simply because children don't complain about the danger they are in due to the presence of CP doesn't mean that there isn't a direct victim. Also, the ""no direct victim"" definition for a crime discounts other crimes which are equally serious, such as drunk driving, possession of an assault weapon, counterfeiting, conspiracy (to commit murder, terrorism, etc), accessory to murder, attempted murder, and the list goes on. ""I know you don't like me calling them innocent, because you believe they have committed a crime- however, they have not committed a crime against a person. You can not name a victim they harmed directly."" Here are the four definitions of crime given by the American Heritage Dictionary 1. An act committed or omitted in violation of a law forbidding or commanding it and for which punishment is imposed upon conviction. 2. Unlawful activity: statistics relating to violent crime. 3. A serious offense, especially one in violation of morality. 4. An unjust, senseless, or disgraceful act or condition: It's a crime to squander our country's natural resources. I suppose you could argue that the fourth definition supports your argument, however it is a figurative use of the word. Other than that, CP possession violates all of the above definitions. The first two are obvious, and I think it is generally accepted in our society that to derive sexual pleasure from the graphic exploitation of a child is immoral. So yes, they have committed a crime. I have already addressed your supposed ""no direct victim"" defense. I agree with you that child pornography is a less concrete area than theft; however that doesn't make it any more legal. This argument boils down to whether the rights of the citizen to derive pleasure from the rape, sodomizing, and exploitation of a child outweigh our obligation to protect children from those who would do them harm. I believe the latter far exceeds the former in importance."	CON	151
151	S7ad5a1f-Afb7e1633	Death penalty should be allowed	"My opponent stated ""A more recent study by Kenneth Land of Duke University and others concluded that, from 1994 through 2005, each execution in Texas was associated with ""modest, short-term reductions"" in homicides, a decrease of up to 2.5 murders."" The issue with this statistic is that it is looking at only one state. Over all, when you compare all states without the death penalty, and those with it, those without the death penalty, on average, have a lower murder rate. There of course can be exceptions to this rule, such as Texas. Next my opponent used an article from daily signal. As you can read about here[10], they are known to have a strong right wing bias as well as having a ""mixed"" reporting record. Meaning, that some of the things they report on are simply not even true. Given that the article doesn't even cite the study they claim that they got the information from, it is very suspect. I thank my opponent for this debate, and wish them luck in future debates. To conclude, I believe that the reasons I mentioned above, how there can be innocent people who are given the death penalty, how the death penalty is more expensive(as my opponent conceded) and that life in prison without parole seems to be a better deterrent to murder than the death penalty, I believe it makes sense not to allow the death penalty. Sources: [10] https://mediabiasfactcheck.com..."	CON	152
152	Sb2c5f871-Adc1fd459	Solitary Confinement Use Should be Reduced and Elimanted	I accpet	CON	153
153	Sb2c5f871-A8876673a	Solitary Confinement Use Should be Reduced and Elimanted	"I would like to thank my opponent for also providing a reasonable argument and I am glad for an opponent on a topic that I find especially interesting to me. I would like to take one second to correct my opponent. Solitary confinement, in the United States at least, was implemented as early as 1826 (Bennion, 2015.) Also prisoners can spend many more years in segregation than just one. One prisoner in Colorado was kept in isolation for 16 years. (Knowles, 2015.) I do concur that SHU (Special/Secure Housing Unit, for those that don't know) is primarily for punishing the prisoner. However, I believe that our society would benefit more from a rehabilitative approach than a punitive one. Prison is better implemented when it used, as you say, ""to turn your life around."" However, with SHU this isn't the case. It causes mental illness in those that do not already have problems and exacerbates mental illness in those that already suffer from mental health issues. I posit that SHU doesn't ""build character"" but rather it deteriorates character over time. According to Professor Craig Henry, there are five social pathologies that can be caused by solitary confinement. The first of which is “unprecedented totality of control,” where the prisoner feels the loss of all control and suffers from depression and frustration. The second is “chronic apathy, lethargy, depression, and despair.” The third is the undermining of the prisoner’s sense of self. The fourth is disorientation and fright of social contact and interaction. Finally, the fifth pathology is intolerable levels of frustration, which can lead to anger and sudden, uncontrollable outbursts of rage (Gordon, 2014). I believe, and data seems to back my assumption, that this can cause inmates to become more violent and cause them to commit further crimes in the future. (See previous round) To your last point, I agree that safety is a valid reason to maintain SHU, however I don't believe that it is helpful to the inmate needing protection, nor the prison population needing protection. By causing these inmates nearly irreparable psychological damage and making them more violent it poses a risk to both the inmate and the general population. Thus the reason I suggest improving conditions in SHU, especially for those simply seeking safety from gen. pop. (There is already a form of this in most prison systems, where they are afforded more rights and comforts than SHU inmates.) (Gordon, 2014) Additional Sources: Banning the Bing: Why Extreme Solitary Confinement is Cruel and Far too Unusual Punishment, Elizabeth Bennion, 2015, Indiana Law Journal, Vol 90:741 The Shameful Wall of Exclusion, Jessica Knowles, 2015, Washington Law Review, Vol90:893"	PRO	154
154	S328198b3-Afc3acb72	The US should adopt a ban on all semiautomatic firearms	BOP is shared.	PRO	155
155	S328198b3-A9f71753a	The US should adopt a ban on all semiautomatic firearms	I accept this debate.	CON	156
156	Se98fe508-Ad638853b	Should immigrants in the United States illegally who are parents of us minors be deported	"I'd like to run a topicality today on the word illegal immigrant Interpretation - NEG""s interpretation of illegal immigrant is anyone who crosses the Border including ISIL members Violation - The Affirmative does not clearly define the resolution allowing them cheat Standards - This is bad grammar You will be voting apriori and on the Education The AFF loses this round because the illegal aliens broke the law. Their motives don't matter they still broke the law."	PRO	157
157	Se98fe508-A5cde0363	Should immigrants in the United States illegally who are parents of us minors be deported	if there wasn't border surveillance then everything would not be right	CON	158
158	Se98fe508-A5cde0363	Should immigrants in the United States illegally who are parents of us minors be deported	if there wasn't border surveillance then everything would not be right	CON	159
159	S59b2920c-Ae903e94f	CMV: If Republicans Believe Impeachment of a Former President is Unconstitutional, Then They Should Be Pressing For Trump to Be Prosecuted in the Usual, Constitutional Way	"I think you are correct, centering Trump is terrible for the Republican Party. 

I also agree that this is likely going to backfire on Republicans and it already has.

However, I think the Republicans don't want to prosecute or impeach Trump because they don't want to center Trump.

Republican voters love Trump, but Trump has certainly done a ton of illegal and bad things.

Republicans just went through four straight years of pretending they hadn't heard of the most recent terrible thing Trump did, saying the terrible thing he did was good,  saying he didn't mean (terrible thing) but instead meant (entirely different still bad thing), etc.

That's what a Trump prosecution or impeachment would be. It would be another six months of the GOP being forced to defend, ignore, and reframe the indefensible.

They do not want to do this.

What they want to do is move on. They want to never mention Trump again. Republican voters can talk about Trump all they want, but Republican elected officials (with some notable exceptions) just want to ignore Trump.

Even the ones who love Trump (like Gaetz, Cruz, etc.) probably don't want Trump running in 2024 because they may want to run in 2024. They just want him to slowly disappear. The easiest way to do this is for everyone to stop talking about Trump, stop talking about the riots at the capitol, and forget everything else.

That will take longer and be harder to do if the next year or so is spent making a giant list of all the bad things Trump did and finding all the people who helped him.

Prosecuting or impeaching Trump would center Trump, letting him live in Florida with no social media makes him go away faster.

The other thing is that I agree this may backfire on Republicans, but I don't know if they should care too much.

I'm not going to hypothesize on what Republican politicians want because I'm not even a Republican voter, but I'll list what they've done and some ways it has backfired.

Things they've done:

* Hundreds or thousands of conservative judges

* Held up hundreds of liberal judges

* Three new conservative Supreme Court justices

* Loosening of regulations on businesses in basically every regard including the environment, employment discrimination, taxes, etc.

* Restrictive voting laws that disenfranchise primarily Democratic voters

* A terribly-run census that can help continue to disenfranchise Democratic voters

There's more that could go here, but that's what I could think of off the top of my head.

Here's the backlash:

* Lost midterms in 2018

* Lost presidency and senate in 2020

* Capitol riot

* General rise in white supremacy

I'm sure there's more here, but that's the main stuff I can think of.

I think that's a worthwhile trade for McConnell. He's got a Democratic president who desperately wants to look bipartisan and loves to negotiate with Republicans even though he doesn't need to.

This may have resulted in some bad things, but look at that list of good things. A lot of those could not have happened by following normal procedure. 

McConnell has set the stage well for future Republicans. He's made it so that Democrats need to dramatically outperform Republicans just to break even.

He's stacked the courts at all levels with conservative judges in lifetime appointment, which makes passing any major legislation nearly impossible if conservatives decide they really dislike it.

Yes, this has consequences for Republicans, but most of those things (losing elections) could be solved by having a president who knows how to read graphs and isn't openly racist."	CON	160
160	Sa3c027ad-Af8943351	The United States Federal Government's War on Drugs should be ended.	"Thank you, 16kadams, for this debate. I hope you'll reconsider your stance on drugs after this debate. Contention 1-: The War on Drugs has worked I'm aware that marijuana use went down, but there is no evidence that this is due to the Drug War. Correlation does not mean causation, after all. According to Milton Friedman, marijuana use actually went down in Alaska through legalization [1]. Additionally, much of the high drug usage occurred before people really knew how dangerous drugs like morphine were; in this age of information, we wouldn't have that problem. Besides, while normalization may occur, the many negatives of the Drug War are not worth this one positive. My opponent claims that ""taxing [drugs] actually raises users, but he gives no evidence for this. He also claims that the drug war can be ""won,"" but evidently not everyone is deterred from using drugs by the law, or else the war would already be won. My opponent claims that substance abuse is America's #1 health problem (which is really odd if the war is working), but a Google search reveals that this could also be stress [2], obesity [3], or a lack of sleep; that's not an invitation for government to regulate all of those aspects of our life. It isn't the role of government to keep us healthy, but to protect our rights. Contention 1+: The War on Drugs is expensive My opponent does not refute that drugs may contribute to psychic income instead of monetary income, making his monetary measurements invalid. My opponent claims that emergency room costs would increase, but this is doubtful. With legalization, it would be easier for addicts to seek help for their problems, and it would be easier for people to get information on safe use of drugs. Milton Friedman pointed out how a pregnant mother would be able to talk to a doctor about her addiction and get the prenatal care her child needs [1]; this would occur at all levels of addiction. Regarding aggravation rates, ""[t]he violence is due to prohibition and nothing else. How much violence is there surrounding the alcohol trade?"" [1]. My opponent cites a study claiming that drug use may indicate exposure to violence, but it does not conclusively link drug use to more violence; in fact, they may both simply correlate with exposure to violence. Users would be less likely to overdose if they could get adequate instruction on drug use, but this can't happen without legalization. It's true that long term use of a drug can lead to personality changes, but the same is true for alcohol and many legal drugs, and yet alcohol is still legal. Now, the ""few billion"" dollars over the American population is actually about $700 over each individual's average lifespan, which is fairly significant. Contention 2+: People have a right to drugs My opponent claims that ""if drugs were legal, people would be allowed to do it anywhere,"" but this is simply not true. Again, refer to nudity, which is legal on people's private property, but not in public, and there isn't currently some outbreak of nudity in the streets. Again, the drug use itself does not infringe upon anyone's rights.The resulting violence could, but I've already listed many currently legal things that people have a right to use that can also accidentally result in harm to others; my opponent never contested this, and thus drops the argument. My opponent entirely fails to address the constitutional problems of the War on Drugs; it is entirely unconstitutional. Any anti-drug action is left to the states. Contention 2-: Drugs promote crime My opponent claims that the drug cartels would not be harmed long-term by legalization, but that is only because they have other sources of revenue. It would still weaken them in at least some respect, and the violence specifically caused by the illegal marijuana trade would still go away. Naturally, stopping the cartels completely would be much more complicated. I even quoted in my first round a cartel chief saying the drug war was ""good for business."" I can't read my opponent's source regarding child abuse, but I would guess that the drug most of the child abusers used was alcohol, which is currently legal, so that contention is useless. Contention 3+: The War on Drugs has many unintended consequences. My opponent has little refutation here. He doesn't address the numerous tragic deaths caused by the War on Drugs. He hasn't proven that increased drug use in a legal environment would raise crime. The drug cartels would still operate if their drugs were legalized, but that's only because they're involved in other things; the drug violence itself would stop. He also failed to address the increased corruption of policemen and law officials, the spread of disease, the conversion of many people from non-violent drug use to a life of crime, etc. Conclusion: I have shown how much of the violence of drugs, well as other societal problems, are caused by the War on Drugs itself, which uses our money for an unconstitutional and therefore illegal purpose. Therefore, the federal War on Drugs should be ended. Vote PRO! 1. http://www.druglibrary.org... 2. http://www.stress.org... 3. http://www.cnbc.com... 4. http://articles.cnn.com..."	PRO	161
161	S13966fe3-Abce923be	The United States should not have any laws limiting access to guns.	"""It's already illegal for felons to own guns- any further laws wouldn't have any effect."" And as I said, suicides by gun would be reduced. I'm not just talking about felons. Also as I said, felons can walk into a gun store and buy a gun without a background check. ""(My opponent suggests mandatory gun licensing,) which would treat people as if they were guilty until proven innocent, (i.e., you have to prove that you are responsible before they let you buy a gun), which is contrary to our Constitution- you are supposed to be innocent until proven guilty."" It is true that we are innocent until proven guilty in court. However, in practice, we do contrary things quite often. For example, you are also required to get driving licenses (effectively meaning that you have to prove responsibility before driving a car). ""The Center For Disease Control doesn't hae any juristiction in the area of firearms, and my oponent sourced a blog instead of the CDC. His other sources are also incredible bloggs."" The Violence Policy Center is not a blog. My other sources were blogs, one of which I had doubts about. My CDC link was from a factcheck.org post, but it is possible that they got it wrong. For a long time, the CDC actually did do research on gun laws."	CON	162
162	S13966fe3-A6fa0a61	The United States should not have any laws limiting access to guns.	"I argue for gun control(ie requiring a license to own a gun), Pro argues for the motion Several studies show that pro-gun legislation increases crime. Open carry laws increase crime - http://feeds.latimes.com... Another study shows: ""The overall homicide rate, among the metro areas whose principal city is in a state that requires some form of permit to purchase a gun, is 4.32 per 100,000 residents, compared with 5.74 among cities in no-permit states. This certainly does not confirm the gun control = higher violent crime hypothesis. Quite the opposite."" http://www.huffingtonpost.com... Gun control decreases crime by making gun access harder and thus reducing the ability to commit violent crime."	CON	163
163	S13966fe3-A7431ca0	The United States should not have any laws limiting access to guns.	"It's already illegal for felons to own guns- any further laws wouldn't have any effect. 2. My opponent says: ""I am not proposing a ban on guns - I am proposing that people be required to undergo thorough training and a background check prior to obtaining them. This means judging their guilt (and also avoiding potential accidental manslaughter)."" Which would treat people as if they were guilty until proven innocent, (i.e., you have to prove that you are responsible before they let you buy a gun), which is contrary to our Constitution- you are supposed to be innocent until proven guilty. 3. The Center For Disease Control doesn't hae any juristiction in the area of firearms, and my oponent sourced a blog instead of the CDC. His other sources are also incredible bloggs."	PRO	164
164	Sd76b3024-A17c8249b	LSD should be legal under license	I accept and look forward to our debate. LSD (Lysergic Acid Diethylamide) is a psychodelic drug that alters thinking processes, closed- and open-eye visuals, synesthesia, an alter sense of time and spiritual experiences. There are a small number of significant people in the past who claim they were positively influenced by the drug. I honestly think they would have been significant without the use of a psychodelic drug. The medical uses are largely either unproven, inconclusive, or insignificant compared to alternatives. While LSD may have some potential medical uses there are preferable alternatives in modern medical science. The use of such psychodelic hallucinogens like LSD-25 has more cons than pros.	CON	165
165	Sd76b3024-Af8e39178	LSD should be legal under license	"LSD was declared a ""Schedule 1"", entailing that the drug has a ""high potential for abuse"" and is without any ""currently accepted medical use in treatment."" Firstly please prove that LSD has a HIGH potential for abuse (addiction) AND that it there are NO medical uses. Some of the people who used LSD as inspiration for there inventions: Steve Jobs - Apple Products, Kary Mullis - The PCR Machin, Francis Crick - The DNA Double-Helix Concept, Kevin Herbert - Router Software, Douglas Engelbart - The Mouse. Think of where we would be without those inventions. LSD has been shown as one of the only treatments of cluster headaches. The only other being other psychedelics. This has been subjected to being the most painful condition known to humans and LSD can take that pain away when nothing else can. LSD is a victimless crime, a person takes it and will continue to trip peacefully and often with a ""trip sitter"" or sober person to ensure that things are kept under control. This is why I also argue to make it only legal under a license similar to firearms or a car. The participants would need to take a safety class and possibly pass a test in order to be able to buy the drug. Then the people will be able to trip peacefully while the people who want nothing to do with it, dont have to buy it. This combined with the fact that no one has ever died from an LSD overdose only enhances the safety of this chemical One of the first studies in over 40 years has shown the 100% of participants agreed that LSD helped with terminal illness anxiety. http://www.maps.org... http://www.neurology.org... http://www.justice.gov..."	PRO	166
166	Sd76b3024-A78a2a4ca	LSD should be legal under license	LSD-25 is a wonderful, magical chemical that has touched and improved many lives. It can open possibilities that have never even been dreamt of. Throughout the 20th century it has helped create some of the greatest scientific discoveries and inventions that we know of which includes the discovery of DNA. It has also led to the creation of tens of thousands of songs if not more. It also has medical uses and can treat a wide array of diseases and illnesses.	PRO	167
167	S70e17380-A55653b80	The United States should impose Stronger, More Effective Gun Control Laws	I would rather leave my debate unmentioned until round 2.	CON	168
168	Sa3c027ad-A619c3bab	The United States Federal Government's War on Drugs should be ended.	I accept	CON	169
169	Sa3c027ad-Ad259bae2	The United States Federal Government's War on Drugs should be ended.	"Will present my case first, if I have mm refute later: C1: the war on drugs has worked Health experts in Portugal said Friday that Portugal's decision 10 years ago to decriminalise drug use and treat addicts rather than punishing them is an experiment that has worked. [1] Oh BTW to avoid plagerism issues a footnote=quote from source or near quote. Now governmental stats: However, overall drug use is down by more than a third in the last twenty years, while cocaine use has dropped by an astounding 70 percent. Ninety-five percent of Americans do not use drugs. This is success by any standards. [2] Legalizing drugs would lead to more users: Additionally, the normalization of marijuana seems to have an effect on the production of the drug. Jansen notes that the annual Nederweit (high potency Dutch-grown marijuana) crop is about 100 tons a year -- almost all grown illegally -- of which 65 tons is exported. [3] So it is made more when legalized. This generally means higher demand. The normalization of marijuana in Europe has officials increasingly worried. A European Union working group on drug policy issued a draft resolution in July of 2004 identifying marijuana as ""European drug problem number one"" [3] This means the people using it are high in Europe, where it is usually legal. C2: There is no right to drugs First, we don't have the right to do anything we want with our body. Can I walk down the street naked? Can I say what I want anywhere I want? (if you said ""yes"" to the last question, try yelling ""hijack"" on a plane and get back to me.) [4] It is technically only a american right if the Constitution says so. Also the Constitution does state a right usually cannot hurt other people, drugs hurt many people: PCP is phencyclidine, and is actually formed from a much more complex drug that was originally developed for use as an anesthetic. And yes, the drug can numb users to the point where they can become extremely dangerous to those around them. Sometimes people dip marijuana joints into liquid PCP or combine it with other drugs such as crack. [5] So people around you when your stark raving mad, affect them. When you do drugs, you are putting your life and someone else's life in danger. Drugs can affect your health, your family, your friends, your finances and your career. [6] So having a war on drugs is a public safety issue as well a a personal health issue. Of those who had been arrested for a serious crime, 46% had used marijuana within the past year[7] This means someone else was effected hurt, killed, raped etc possibly because of drug use. C3: Crime There is a general belief that the drug-crime link is causal. More importantly, it is assumed that drug use causes crime. The criminological evidence to support this belief is not as strong as some might imagine. In fact, the best available research has generally concluded that the relationship is extremely complex and defies attempts to sort out directionality. [8] This is kinda given, drugs that make you dumber and crazier and less reactant to pain will make you feel above the law, invincible, and mess with your brain. It may cause you to do things you would not have done otherwise Dr Seena Fazel, a clinical senior lecturer in forensic psychiatry and consultant forensic psychiatrist at the University of Oxford, said: ""The relationship between violent crime and serious mental illness can be explained by alcohol and substance abuse. If you take away the substance abuse, the contribution of the illness itself is minimal."" [9] drugs cause violence. C4: Cost In the year 2000, drug abuse cost American society an estimated $160 billion. [10] Now you claim most of the cost is n the law enforcement, which is a falsity. Actually only 3% of the drug war is law enforcement. As seen in my 10th source. The rest is rehab and treatment, which you probably support, therefore legalizing it wouldn't change sending to any huge degree. C5: possible economic detriment when legalized In addition, legalization—and the increased addiction it would spawn—would result in lost workforce productivity—and the unpredictable damage that it would cause to the American economy. [10] In 2000, productivity losses due to drug abuse cost the economy $110 billion. [10] So as the source states, drug usage would increase. So the drug usage already hurts us, legalization would make it worse. well I am tired and will refute next round. =conclusion= legalizing drugs is a bad idea as mentioned above."	CON	170
