	id	conclusion	premises	stance	rank
0	S6af79c61-Aa914339	Israeli School Trips to Auschwitz Should be Banned	"Thanks again Con, of course I can agree as to the heinousness of the Holocaust; this was a time period in which millions of Jews faced the most brutal treatment and Auschwitz is a clear example of this--so this isn't a debate on the Holocaust as such, but whether, looking at present time, Israeli schools should be able to make trips to Auschwitz-Birkenau. Just to make it clear to Con as well, I am not only referring to Auschwitz as a camp that Israeli students should not be permitted visits to--but all WW2 camps used by the Nazi's. **Opening Argument** Auschwitz-Birkenau was established by the Nazi regime in 1940, in the beginning of WW2. Originally it was intended as a camp for political prisoners who had failed to copy with Nazi agenda (1.) http://www.history.com... Only a small number of Jews were deported to the camp, until 1942 (2.) http://auschwitz.org... At this point, along with other camps in the German area of control (Belzec, Bergen-Belsen, Buchenwald, Chelmno, Dachau, etc.) one of the primary purpose's became to imprison Jewish people-from all over central Europe and East Europe; even parts of the West and South were not immune. This all occurred in the three year 'final-solution', in which the intention was to rid Europe, literally, of Jewish presence. The atrocities that took place are fairly common knowledge--gas was also used in other camps, and in Nazi vans, but the high number of people killed at Auschwitz is what has given its reputation today. It is estimated that at least 960,000 Jews died there (3.) https://www.ushmm.org... In January 1945, frontline (Soviet) Ukrainian troops entered Auschwitz, many Jews had previously been forced to on marches by the Germans, but there were about 1000 very sick prisoners left. I will now go onto my main contentions-- this may be a controversial point, but when Israeli students visit Auschwitz it is not necessarily for the reason people assume they are doing so; 'education' and being made aware of ones history is often just an excuse. People can learn about any topic matter anywhere--visiting the place isn't necessary. Israeli Jews come from a very nationalistic country, with very nationalistic ideals. At present they have a leader who quite casually makes statements such as: 'they will not put us back into (the) gas chambers' in his speeches, when he is basically trying to defend Israel's domestic and international approach towards politics; nationalism and the idea that there is an enemy, and that you must fight against it, are very commonplace things for Israeli's. Which thus brings me to the point of Israeli teenagers when they visit Auschwitz--in many situations, they lack decorum. It's completely 'normal' for them to bring Israeli flags and wave them around. I would argue is disrespectful to the memory of Jews who were actually at Auschwitz, in particular to the ones who had no real concept of what 'Israel' would be, who were happy in Europe prior to the Holocaust and led relatively contented lives there. Moreover, it is also disrespectful to all the non-Jews that were taken to Auschwitz. Though fewer in numbers, they still went, and some still died. These would include the Polish prisoners, Roma gypsies, Soviet prisoners of war, etc.--the third link I gave offers the statistics on non-Jewish prisoners who were imprisoned and killed. I'm sure for any non-Jews who come from Soviet countries, it is not exactly typical for them to wave around their national flag and take selfies. This is such common knowledge that even a Facebook group was set-up to ridicule the Israeli's taking selfie pictures at Auschwitz (4.) http://www.haaretz.com... And to show the flags: http://i.imgur.com... http://i.imgur.com... http://i.imgur.com... http://i.imgur.com... http://i.imgur.com... Now, to me this cheapens the place and it is unhealthy for teenagers to have such a preoccupation with their national flag, especially when considering all the political issues and misdemeanours in their own country. In addition, from first-hand accounts, Israeli students can be extremely gregarious when they visit Auschwitz, often disregarding others visitors and behaving as if they have 'special' rights. One Polish news outlet, Przekroj weekly, wrote a story of young Israeli's damaging hotels and behaving rudely towards locals (5.) polishpress.wordpress.com/2007/05/11/israeli-teenagers-are-a-nuisance-in-poland/amp/ (Unfortunately I cannot link any other article, as it is in Polish.) One Israeli principle, in 2016, decided to cancel all Auschwitz trips for his school (6.) http://www.timesofisrael.com... He stated that: 'Some of the children who go on the trip return from it more chauvinistic, and I definitely think that that""s not how the trip should be.' 'If there is a humane and universalist atmosphere in society or in the country, the trip can strengthen these messages, but when the atmosphere in the nation today is delegitimization of the other and when the atmosphere in society is ultranationalist, then this trip serves those trends.' And: 'The trip in recent years is a trip with tendencies that are more belligerent and more suited to the atmosphere and the regime in Israel, which includes hatred of the other and fear of the other.' He also cited the high costs and obvious emotional trauma that may be felt by many of the young students. For most schools, the price per student to go to Auschwitz is at least 1000 dollars; which if you do the mathematics is overpriced and expensive. Nine Israeli travel bosses were fined for forming their own 'cartel' and overcharging schools by 20% (7.) http://www.telegraph.co.uk... I would personally argue more, given that accommodation and basic amenities in Poland are really very cheap. Anyway, I think this summarises my opening argument so I will wait for Cons)"	PRO	1
1	S2b7532f8-Ada793305	Raped Women Should Be Euthanised	"Thanks, Envisage. =My case= I. Gendered arguments Pro drops the warrant that we should prefer the impact that come from language because it's real and immediate whereas the policy impacts discussed in round are imaginary, so if I win the kritik I win the debate. Pro has completely failed to answer the kritik--basing policy on sex without warrant to do so is inherently sexist and judges should act with their conscience and vote down all forms of discrimination. Pro asserts that male rape victims should not be euthanized because they don't suffer the same way, but he doesn't explain *how* these differences in suffering justify a policy difference, nor does he cite in round what these difference really are so they can't be considered--reading his source is doing his work for him. Pro says that the resolution doesn't preclude executing male rape victims as well, but he doesn't understand that resolutions that explicitly mention a specific demographic are necessarily exclusive. Pro's argument here is akin to me making a resolution entitled ""black people should sit in the back of the bus"" and justifying it by saying ""well white people should sit in the back of the bus too because the back of the bus is fun"". That would be a bad argument because there's no reason to specify black people in that resolution if you aren't going to be making race specific arguments, just like there's no reason to specify women in this debate if you aren't going to make sex specific arguments. Thus since Pro dropped the warrant that we should prefer the kritik over the other arguments and failed to demonstrate why the policy should specify women you can vote Con here. Pro completely misunderstands how he's being heternormative--by assuming peoples genders can be neatly categorized into little boxes he is ignoring sexual minorities. The impact of a heteronormative mindset has already been explained and Pro still never explained what happens to transsexuals, hermaphrodites, and other sexual minorities that could arguably be categorized as women. Indeed, Pro doesn't even dispute the point and doesn't even explain who falls under this broad, sweeping category he calls woman. How on Earth Pro expects you to agree to kill an entire demographic without knowing exactly who they are is beyond me. II. Realism Pros response here falls completely flat. Pro eats away at his economic impacts by arguing that we should implement some complex mechanism for rooting out rape victims after the initial wave of executions. What's going to happen is that the government is going to track down and exterminate those who have reported rape in the past and after that there will be no more reports. When rapists know that they can do whatever they want and there is no legal recourse to stop them, the amount of rapes will vastly increase. The streets will devolve into a mad scrum of vigilante justice with the government powerless to stop the madness. Pro responds that rape is rarely reported in the status quo--this is true and a major issue. Preventing rape from ever being reported would serve only to make things worse. The cost-benefit analysis is completely changed when the rapist knows they will never be caught. I don't think Pro understood the incarceration impact: when women do defend themselves by killing or maiming their rapists, they will have to lie about their motivations lest they be executed which would lead to thousands of women being unjustly thrown into prison. Pros definition for rape is so broad as to include things like groping. So much for Pro's economic savings. Pro's claim that murdering all rape victims will somehow raise awareness for rape is so absurd as to be laughable--that he's seriously arguing that killing any victim who speaks out against their attackers is a good way to raise rape awareness is as good an argument to vote Con as any I could've come up with myself. You should vote Con here because this is a direct solvency takeout: Pro's plan leads to more rape and more expenses. He has literally no impact whatsoever that stands the test of realism. I can't emphasize this enough: his argument about how much rape victims suffer is completely turned by the fact that rape would increase. III. Practical concerns Pros arguments to this rebuttal are ridiculous: that he seriously expects that society would benefit from terminating something around 20% of it's female population is an extremely dubious claim that he's provided no real justification for. The impact of exterminating such a vast amount of the population would be so vast and so unprecedented that it's almost impossible to imagine the impact but it's a safe bet that it outweighs at most $750 per year. The suffering incurred by the loss of a loved one is extreme and anyone who has lost someone they care about can relate--Pro's analysis simply fails to persuade here. Pro accuses me of ""special pleading"" for arguing that rapists should be imprisoned but rape victims shouldn't be murdered however he's merely strawmanning my argument here and I suspect he knows it. That Pro pretends to not understand the moral difference between punishing the perpetrator of a crime and the victim and how this factors into our decision making is so ridiculous as to defy belief. Pro seriously contends that a welfare system based upon the earnings of the young subsidizing the wealthy can survive a 20% female population loss and to defend this he cites China. Unfortunately for Pro, the male-female disparity in China has been a *huge* cause for concern and has led to abolishing the one child policy in many cases if the first child is a girl[1]. Pro argues that we ""should"" be jailing all of the rapists anyway which removes them from society. First, the resolution doesn't specify tightening sentences for rapists so he can't claim this impact and secondly if he does he loses out on all of his economic benefits as the cost to imprison someone for a year is vastly more than $750. Pro characterizes my argument that this policy would lead to a governmental collapse as ""fantastical"" and accuses me of having zero evidence, but he doesn't even attempt to address the warrant behind the argument. The government slaughtering huge amounts of citizens for no reason would certainly cause a backlash against the state--who would trust the government again after they exterminated your mother because some filth victimized her years ago? Pro's demand for evidence is unfair as his suggestion is entirely without precedent but it's fair to say that the psychological impact on the populace would be immense. Certainly the idea of rule of law would be thrown out the window as the state commits unspeakable atrocities in its quest to save us $750 per year. IV. Morality Reject Pro's position because he never made the argument for why we can override the right to life of these women--Pro tries to shift the burden of proof here but like I argued in my framework, a shared burden of proof means only that we're both obligated to provide reasons our world is better and we can still assign unequal burdens on contention level arguments. It was Pro's burden to prove that his impacts were so overwhelming that the commonly recognized right to life can be overridden. At this point I can win simply by appealing to the judge's sense of justice: a life is incredibly valuable, worth far more than $750. Secondly, Pro wants the debate to be judged by a really weird form of utilitarianism where we look at only the societal effects he wants you to look at (money). Pro made did not overcome the argument that societal values like life should be weighed into our utilitarian calculations and has utterly failed to prove that his impacts are so vast that they outweigh the societally granted right to life. Human life is one a sacred principle in every society, it's strictly not utilitarian to ignore what brings society the most utility by ending the things they value in exchange for pocket change. Pro doesn't even win the economic argument--in the last round I cited a card explaining the heavy costs of murder on society. Pro's only real response is that it's intangible and we can't compare intangible costs to tangible ones, but this is simply wrong. Any student with a basic accounting knowledge knows that intangible assets like patents and goodwill are included in companies balance sheets at their estimated dollar value and we can do the same with life. Again, there's clear evidence that society values life extremely highly, far more than what amounts to Pro's drop in the bucket savings. Pro's attacks against the study are unsourced and therefore can be ignored, and there's absolutely no reason why the value individuals--members of society-- put on their own lives shouldn't be weighed in societal calculations. Pro also never disputed the analysis that he gains no advantage because he doesn't say what to use this money for until the last round where he argues that we should just breed 31 million new children into existence every for....reasons? Through...mechanisms? Pro is just grasping at straws trying to cobble together some fancy looking impact to compensate the fact that his entire case is bunk. Indeed, I just can't understand where Pro is coming from here at all. Under any reasonable utilitarian calculation, I come out on top due to the extreme reverence and value society puts on life. Under any individual rights argument I come out on top because I solve for individual suffering by invoking the status quo--women who want to kill themselves can. Pro's argument that this ""concedes"" to the resolution is bunk. There's no reason to take away the rights of the vast majority of victims who want to live and whatever suffering he solves for is outweighed by life or else these individuals wouldn't continue to live. The resolution is negated. 1. http://www.economist.com..."	CON	2
2	S2b7532f8-Ab687e78f	Raped Women Should Be Euthanised	"Thanks, Envisage. =Framework= a) The resolution goes two possible ways. The first is the way of realism--we look at our world and try to apply the resolution to it. Under this interpretation, euthanizing raped women would have to be involve some kind of state mechanism identifying women who had been sexually violated and exterminating them. The second way is idealism, where we could assume some mystical pie in the sky mechanism that affirms the resolution. We should prefer the former interpretation for debates as it evens the playing field and allows for better policy analysis--if my opponent wants to claim an impact, he should be able to prove that it would actually happen. Since Pro did not specify which country is implementing this policy, we can assume that he wants it done in every country and we should analyze the impacts on a global scale. b) A shared burden of proof merely means that both parties are obligated to explain to the judges why a world on their side of the resolution is preferable as opposed to only one side having this obligation. To fulfill my burden, I only have to prove that my world better solves for values my opponent and I agree on. This is, after all, and LD debate according to Pro and as such I agree to his (implied) value of minimizing suffering and will prove throughout the debate why my position is superior in this regard. =Case= I. Gendered arguments Before anything else, reject the resolution because arbitrarily basing policy on gender when there is no compelling reason to do so is discriminatory. Pro must prove not only why euthanizing rape victims is good, but why we should only implement this policy for people with a specific set of genitalia or identify with a certain set of traits we consider to be feminine. This debate is not an actual policy testing ground and as such the effects of the policy are not real, however the effect of language is real and immediate--the judge is obligated to act by their conscience to reject sexism and discrimination in all its forms, including debate resolutions. The resolution also offers no explanation for what action we should take when dealing with individuals who are hermaphrodites, transgendered, or biologically male but identify as female and as such assumes a heteronormative framework, which harms sexual minorities. AsYep, Lovaas, and Elia explain[1]: ""Heteronormativity, as the invisible center and the presumed bedrock of society, is the quintessential force creating, sustaining, and perpetuating the erasure, marginalization, disempowerment, and oppression of sexual others."" Thus a vote for Pro is a vote for sexism and heterosexism--since the policy impacts discussed in the round aren't real but the impacts of sexist and heterosexist language are, they have to be preferred as they affect the real world. We should reject discrimination by voting Con. Even if, at the end of the debate, you buy all of Pro’s arguments and don’t buy any of mine, you still vote Con until he shows a unique link between his impacts and the female gender because I can just turn them by suggesting we implement the policy except for all genders instead of just women. II. Realism Before getting to the nitty gritty analysis of why this resolution is an abomination, it’s worth noting that even if you buy everything Pro says you still have to vote Con because he isn’t going to access any impacts in the real world. The only possible way the state apparatus could know which women had been raped is via the justice system. What this means is that if we implemented a policy of summary executions for rape victims, we wouldn't actually minimize any suffering because as very few of these victims want to die, they will not report being raped. Not only does this destroy whatever arguments my opponent chooses to makes, but it shows how the resolution actually increases suffering because what will actually occur is handing rapists a blank check as they know their victims are incredibly unlikely to actually report their crimes. The streets will become unsafe for women as roving bands of monsters and vagrants seeking to ravage them reign free. The only way to check the widespread unreported rape epidemic that will occur is through vigilante justice as women and their families take revenge into their own hands the only way they can when the system fails them, but vigilante justice is inherently unstable and dangerous. Moreover when women do defend themselves and maim/kill their attackers, if there was any sexual contact of any kind (including mere touching) they will have to lie about their reasoning lest they be executed for the crime of being raped. Thousands of innocent women will be unjustly thrown into prison, eating away at budgets. I'm not allowed to directly engage Pros case in this round, but no matter what arguments he chooses to make this is a direct solvency takeout as nothing he argues will happen actually will. Instead we'll have a minor societal breakdown. III. Practical concerns If we want to reduce suffering, murdering thousands of women is not the way to do it. Since after implementing the policy reports of sexual assault would abruptly stop, the only women executed would be those who have already reported their sexual assault. The statistics vary, but most research suggests that in the United States something around 20% of women experience rape in their lifetime[2]. In 2008 alone, over 160,000 women in the United States reported being victims of some kind of sexual assault (which falls under my opponents definition of rape) according to the Bureau of Justice Statistics[3]. Even if we're going to completely ignore their rights and judge based off a utilitarian calculation, these women do not exist in a vacuum--they are mothers and daughters, sisters and aunts, friends and doctors and lawyers and taxpayers. The negative effects of exterminating somewhere around 1/5th of the female population would outweigh by hundreds of orders magnitude whatever benefit it garners as their loved ones suffer emotional and financial loss and their economic production is completely ended. Moreover a worldwide demographic crisis would occur with much fewer women than men, leading to far less children being produced and no one to pay into the welfare state system, causing it to collapse. It's a dubious prospect at best to believe that the world economy, already on the brink, could survive a sudden and enormous population drop. The shock alone as virtually everyone in the world loses someone close to them would be enough to drive us over the edge. Moreover, implementing this policy would literally destroy the state. Large amounts of lives would be unjustly taken--rebellion and civil war in virtually every country would swiftly follow leading to millions if not billions of deaths as governments of various levels of authoritarianism crack down on their protesting populations. No matter what, governmental legitimacy and the idea of the rule of law will be forever destroyed as even the most well developed governments commit a veritable holocaust. IV. Morality Even knowing full well that my opponent is not being serious in this debate, the entire idea makes me uncomfortable because by debating a policy that robs these women of their lives without their input we are inherently treating them not as human beings but rather as objects to subject to policy analysis, and that just isn't right. We shouldn't trivialize the suffering these victims go through by making them a means to the end of the greater good and they at least deserve a compelling defense of their rights as individuals. Indeed, my opponent has quite the mountain to climb to prove that these victims have so few rights as people that we can debate the merit of murdering them with the same cool headed, cost benefit analysis as a corporate meeting. Unfortunately for Pro, we aren't businesspeople discussing Oatmeal packaging, we're dealing with real people and their lives here and so the kind of analysis Pro wants this debate to be judged on simply isn't persuasive in this context. Like the user dirkson pointed out in the comments, in this round I'm essentially limited to ""Mostly a longwinded way of saying, ""Hey. Don't kill people."""" It's Pros burden to prove incorrect the fundamental moral axiom of murdering people being wrong, not my burden to prove it correct. Although it's worth noting that any moral system which values human well being but doesn't value life itself is incoherent because at the end of the day there's no point in minimizing suffering if we don't care about the individuals who's suffering we're minimizing. Pro may attempt to circumvent my argument by exploiting the suffering of these individuals and saying that this outweighs the utility they get from life, but this analysis will fall flat because if these women wanted to die, they could commit suicide. There's no reason to *murder* them just because we arrogantly believe we know better than they do if their lives are worth it or not. Shame on my opponent for thinking this way. The resolution is, quite frankly, disgusting and completely negated. Vote Con. Sources: 1. Journal of Homosexual Studies, Vol. 45 pp. 18 2. https://www.ncjrs.gov... 3. http://www.bjs.gov..."	CON	3
3	S2b7532f8-A2e5f273c	Raped Women Should Be Euthanised	Conduct Con in his opening has referred to the resolution as “disgusting”, an “abomination” and has attacked me directly and accused me of not taking this debate seriously. These are subjective and a form of ad homenum, hence voters should take this into account when voting on conduct. Pro equivocates euthanasia with ‘murder’ equivocates several times in his round, here is the definition of murder: “to kill (a person) in a deliberate and unlawful way : to commit the murder of (someone)”[1] The debate would establish lawfulness, hence I kindly ask Con to stop slipping in presuppositional word swaps and other pot-shots in his rebuttals. Presuppositions This is not a public policy debate, this debate addresses the truth of the ‘ought’ value of the resolution, “Raped Women Should Be Euthanized”. Thus the pragmatics of the implementation of this resolution are off-topic, as this resolution is akin to ‘We should find a cure for cancer’, or ‘We should prevent murders’, such resolutions may or may not be practically feasible to accomplish, but it is an objective fact of whether or not the ‘ought’, or ‘should’ stands, regardless of whether it practically follows. Hence, I am not obliged to follow Con’s routes of ‘Idealism’ and ‘Realism’ in affirming the resolution; I have made my presuppositions explicit enough anyway. Indeed the ‘we should’ part of the resolution affirms that we should do what is within the interest of society, which ultimately links back to morality and overall public interest. Pro’s affirmation of ‘minimizing suffering’, while a contributing factor, is not the only consideration that must be made , and is just a case of Con trying to change the parameters of the debate. Indeed one of my major justifications for euthanasia was that it would allow more of a nation’s resources (person-hours, emotional resources, as well as physical and monetary) to be put towards other people leading happy and content lives. Gendered Arguments There is nothing within the resolution that prohibits the same resolution applying to male or transgendered people, it’s just that this debate doesn’t extend that far. Moreover Con does nothing to affirm why that’s a bad thing anyway. There are obvious practical reasons, namely that we do not have as many statistics on male-rape as we do on female-rape, moreover males have different sets of hormones, and are affected differently by the secondary effects of rape (anxiety, depression, etc).[2] Thus, if it is a fact that men generally do not suffer the same secondary, or physical effects as females, especially if a significantly reduced amount then a strong case can be made for justified differential treatment of men and women. I am not stating we should discriminate in this case, I am stating that this resolution doesn’t intend to, and even if it did lead to such discrimination it would be for objectively justifiable reasons (and it would be Con’s burden to establish why we should ignore such, which completely ignores the sociological, psychological and biological issues at play). Hence Con’s point hits thin air on both fronts, and Con’s presuppositions actually need substantiation. “…and as such assumes a heteronormative framework, which harms sexual minorities.” This is false, the resolution doesn’t preclude an equal treatment of men & women, and even if true, the “harming of sexual minorities” doesn’t necessarily entail (bare assertion by Con). Realism “… you still have to vote Con because he isn’t going to access any impacts in the real world.” If true, then so what? This debate is whether or not we should euthanize, and a moral case enough to affirm the ‘ought’ or ‘should’ outright (see ‘Presuppositions’). Even if we do not have an effective system that would discover women who have been raped (reporting), then a further case can be made that such a system needs to be developed and installed for weeding out rape victims for euthanisation. We already have such systems in place for animal abuse, where countless animals are inevitably found and euthanized each year after suffering physical abuse by their owners. Hence current pragmatics doesn’t preclude the truth of the resolution. Pro asserts that this would ‘hand the rapists a blank check’, but on the contrary such a policy would significantly increase rape awareness, and also would obviously lead to renormalization of the state punishments anyway. Rape is clearly intended to encompass sexual assault with sexual intercourse, hence Pro’s ‘touching’ arguments are outside the scope of this debate. Moreover the resolution doesn’t entail throwing women into prison, it entails euthanizing them, which is substantially cheaper than incarceration (~$35). [6] Practical concerns Con overstates the prevalence of rape in his own source (18.2%, not 20%), which is a cherry-picked statistic. While this misses the point of the debate (see ‘Presuppositions’), it also self-defeating, since clearly we should be jailing/executing all rapists without exception anyway, which according to Pro’s statistics number ~ 10-20% of the male population. The incarceration rate within the US for any crime is just 0.716%, so in order to fulfil the ‘should’ on incarcerating rapists, we should also be incarcerating an additional ~10% of the US population. Which would leads to exactly the same economic effects that Pro complains about for my position. This is clearly special pleading. To formalize (modus tollens): P1. If we shouldn’t euthanize all raped women for familial/economic reasons, THEN we shouldn’t incarcerate/execute all rapists for familial/economic reasons P2. We should incarcerate/execute all rapists despite family/economic reasons C. “We shouldn’t euthanize all raped women for familial/economic reasons” is false The defence of P1 is for the exactly the same reasoning Con gave for the familial/socio-economical reasons why it’s impractical to euthanize 10-20% of all women, since the impact of incarcerating/executing these men would be pretty much the same. Con asserts that the suffering induced onto the families and economy would outweigh the benefit by “hundreds of orders of magnitude” (that is >10100) and gives zero justification for this. The number of atoms in the universe are <1082, so suffering outweighing this number is physically impossible and seems to be another example of Con exaggerating his case. While the emotional downfall of the families does need to be accounted for, we fails to consider the overall positive effect of: 1. Removing an individual with likely long-term suffering from society 2. Adding a new individual without these long term suffering into society (with the freed up resources) A utilitarian/relative calculation would clearly benefit my position. Pro asserts a demographic crisis (without substantiation), to refute this I will cite China, who is now the world’s leading economy yet has a strong male/female bias (exceeding 1.1:1 and approaching 1.4:1 in some regions) and are growing and maintaining population just fine. Hence Con’s welfare fear mongering is pure fantasy.[3] Pro baldly asserts rebellion and civil way, and the destruction of state, which is prima facie fantastical and with zero evidential support. Moreover even if this is true Con needs to actually demonstrate that this would outweigh the benefits already listed. IV. Morality Con’s arguments here are fuzzy, and are mostly emotional appeals. Con has made no effort to demonstrate it would be moral not to euthanize raped women, especially in spite of the enormous and appalling degree of suffering they, the state and their families endure that I have demonstrated so far. We clearly see fit to euthanize people as capital punishment, and animals who are under sufficient levels of suffering and stress. Moreover Pro doesn’t at all affirm or even suggest what rights women have as individuals that would mitigate the resolution, hence I have nothing to argue against. Why shouldn’t we see humans as a means to a greater good? On utilitarianism, and societal egoism, and many other moral philosophies this would clearly be the way to go. Concessions need to be made to have a maximally good society and Pro’s only affirmation to the contrary is: “….but rather as objects to subject to policy analysis, and that just isn't right” A bald assertion if I have ever seen one. I see fit to reject universal human rights until Con can actually demonstrate they do and should exist, since universal human rights is synonymous with moral objectivism, which is clearly runs into philosophical problems, such as ignorance in biological and psychological differences, and the evolution of moral values over time.[4] “It's Pros burden to prove incorrect the fundamental moral axiom of murdering people being wrong, not my burden to prove it correct” 1. This is a shifting of the BoP, this is Con’s claim, he needs to support it 2. The resolution doesn’t entail murder Only a limited number of moral systems take this as axiomatic, moreover there are many systems in which suffering outweighs the threshold of the benefit of living (e.g. antinatalism).[5] Con defence of the ‘axiom’ entails that an individual should remain alive despite being under the maximal possible excruciating suffering imaginable, since there is “no point in minimizing suffering if we don’t care about the individual who’s suffering we are minimizing”. This is prima facie absurd. It is precisely because we care about the individual’s suffering, and the overall societal benefit that we should euthanize them. Pro’s suicide option concedes the resolution (we should euthanize), and the pragmatics of it is absurd, especially given they have effects and consequences that extend beyond themselves (resources, care). Similarly we don't wait for murderers to hang themselves/turn themselves in. References 1. http://tinyurl.com... 2. http://tinyurl.com... 3. http://tinyurl.com... 4. http://tinyurl.com... 5. http://tinyurl.com... 6. http://tinyurl.com...	PRO	4
4	Sbe38f7bf-Acb586322	The death penalty should be abolished	"This should be fun :D DP = Death Penalty >Rebuttals C1: Deterrence A. 88% of criminologists This is actually a fallacy, also known as appeal to authority. Here is how the fallacy goes: A is an expert in C. A says C is true. Therefore C is true [1]. My opponent says they are the experts, and they say the DP is not a deterrent, therefore it is not a deterrent. This is a direct violation of that fallacy, and therefore fails. B. States with capital punishment have higher crime This argument is very weak, due to the fact it fails to look into past crime cycles in these areas. This simple comparison, as economist John Lott notes, proves nothing. The states without the DP have long enjoyed lower crime rates before they banned the DP. As John Lott noted in his Fox News opinion article: ""The 12 states without the death penalty have long enjoyed relatively low murder rates due to factors unrelated to capital punishment. When the death penalty was suspended nationwide from 1968 to 1976, the murder rate in these 12 states still was lower than in most other states. What is much more important is that the states that re-instituted the death penalty had about a 38 percent larger drop in murder rates by 1998. [...] Overall, the rise in executions during the 1990s accounts for about 12 to 14 percent of the overall drop in murders.""[2] He is essentially saying the states with no DP have low crime rates for other reasons not concerning the death penalty, whereas the states with the death penalty have always had high crime rates for other reasons. He then showed using common statistics that the moratorium of the DP in the 70s caused higher murder rates and when the states where allowed to have that option again the states that made the change had larger drops in violent crime then the states without it. Another good objection is that of Wesley Lowes: ""Others say that states which do have the death penalty have higher crime rates than those that don't, that a more severe punishment only inspires more severe crimes. I must point out that every state in the union is different. These differences include the populations, number of cities, and yes, the crime rates. Strongly urbanized states are more likely to have higher crime rates than states that are more rural, such as those that lack capital punishment. The states that have capital punishment are compelled to have it due to their higher crime rates, not the other way around.""[3] Not only does it fail to take into the fact these states have always had these crime rates, but that it also fails to take into account other factors such as population, economies, education etc. This argument is an abysmal failure when it comes to statistics. C. Non-Conclusive evidence If you review 30 years of data, the best objection to deterrence is the one my opponent brought forth: there is conflicting evidence. Though this argument also fails, miserably. Many studies that have looked into the deterrent effect have clear bias. For example, the american society of criminology has a page titled ""Anti-Capital Punishment resources"".[4] But studies arguing that it decreases crime show a different story. As Naci Moacan argued: ""Science does really draw a conclusion. It did. There is no question about it. The conclusion is there is a deterrent effect. ...I oppose the death penalty. But my results show that the death penalty (deters) _ what am I going to do, hide them?"" His results in his studies show each execution saves 5 lives [5]. May I also note 9/12 studies since 2001 have had similar conclusions, the DP saves lives [2]. Other studies have shown the Illinois Moratorium of 2000 lead to 150 more homicides then what would have been if the DP stayed in place, and that for every 2.75 years you took off of time on death row another murder was prevented [6]. C2: The DP is racist A. Race When looking t my opponents basic statistics this conclusion may look convincing, but it is false. It is indeed true that most people sentenced to death row are black, but is that racist? Blacks actually commit many more murders then any white person. Blacks represent 47% of all murderers, and whites 37%. African Americans also represent 35% of those executed, whites 56%. Also whites are executed faster, 17 months faster. This means Blacks likely have a LONGER appeals process, which seems fair to me [7]. Also: ""In Baldus' Philadelphia study, we find that if only 2% more white murderers had been sentenced to death and only 2.5% fewer black murderers had been sentenced to death, then each group would have been sentenced to death by juries at the same rate...""[7] Also what it interesting even if my opponents statistics are true, the DP helps blacks more then any other race. Onstudy concluded: ""[...]Second, executions deter the murder of whites and African-Americans. Each execution prevents the murder of one white person, 1.5 African-Americans, and 0.5 persons of other races...""[8] As we can see, the DP does not harm minorities. B. Defense Council He notes that if they only have one lawyer, likely due to money reasons, they are more likely to be executed. This is the defendants fault, not the states. The defendant could have asked for a lawyer paid for by the state, which in modern times are generally as good as any private lawyer[s]. There they could have gotten many lawyers, for free! This point is a moot. C3: Cost This point needn't be rebutted straight up. But this only looks into individual cases, not the overall picture. For example, the DP serves as a plea bargain. Many times these criminals plead guilty to avoid a death sentence, which avoids the cost of the trial completely. 50% of DP cases resulted in plea bargains, whereas in states with no DP the number was 40% [9]. Further, the DP is only expensive because we make it that expensive. (trials etc.) If we wanted too the DP could cost almost nothing! Meaning reforming the DP, not abolishing it would better better option if you're worried about costs. Also note many studies have been conducted, and when you add all of their data together the DP over time costs less then an average LWOP sentence [9]. => Case C1: Deterrence The logic behind deterrence dates too 1968. Gary Becker's Study, using deterrence theory, shows criminals fear death and act like normal people. They respond to the costs and benefits [10]. Early DP research conducted by Isaac Ehrlich found the DP had a very strong deterrent effect, and was effective in slowing the rise in murder rates [11]. Other studies found each execution saved 14 lives, Another study found each execution saved 5 lives [12][13]. C2: Recidivism Murderers in LWOP often get out of jail, many of them commit more murders. The DP would make it impossible for this to happen and then save lives [14]. * almost out of room* Conclusion: I had one more contention but have no more room. A human life is the most valuable thing on earth, an innocent one is anyway. My opponent must prove his system is more valuable then a human life because the DP does save lives. Voters, ask does my opponents case: 1. does his C2 & 3 outweigh the lives saved through recidivism and deterence? -> No Vote CON [1] http://tinyurl.com... [2] http://tinyurl.com... [3] http://tinyurl.com... [4] http://tinyurl.com... [5] http://tinyurl.com... [6] http://tinyurl.com... [7] http://tinyurl.com... [8] http://tinyurl.com... [9] http://tinyurl.com... [10] Gary S. Becker, ""Crime and Punishment: An Economic Approach,"" Journal of Political Economy, (1968) [11] Isaac Ehrlich, ""The Deterrent Effect of Capital Punishment: A Question of Life and Death,"" American Economic Review, (1975) [12] H. Naci Mocan and R. Kaj Gittings, ""Getting Off Death Row: Commuted Sentences and the Deterrent Effect of Capital Punishment,"" Journal of Law and Economics, (2003) [13] Paul R. Zimmerman, ""State Executions, Deterrence, and the Incidence of Murder,"" Journal of Applied Economics, (May 2004) [14] http://tinyurl.com..."	CON	5
5	S2b7532f8-A41acdfd0	Raped Women Should Be Euthanised	"Thanks, Envisage. I'll refute Pros case in this round although most of this will be through highlighting where it clashes with my case--I'm not going to argue against Pro's point about rape being bad for example. =Framework= In his strategy, Pro explains that he's advocating the position that it would be better for society as a whole if we euthanized rape victims. This means I've won the framework debate--we have to look at pragmatics because that's the only way to measure what is on balance beneficial. If Pro wanted to argue that the pain these people suffer is so terrible that we ought to put them out of their misery he shouldn't have made his initial arguments consequentialist. Indeed, Pro is not arguing from a deontological perspective and saying that we have a moral obligation to kill these people, but rather is arguing from a utilitarian perspective and as such arguments relating to the implementation of the policy are more than fair they are absolutely critical. If Pro really wants to quibble about the nonarguments points, you should vote him down on conduct for crafting a policy based resolution and framework and then shifting the goal posts in the very next round to make this a question of what we ""ought"" to do. This attempt to stifle my impacts is far more egregious than whatever conduct violations I've committed as it directly links to and harms the debate itself. =Aff case= The biggest flaw with Pro's case is that his arguments don't really link to his impacts. He spends his entire round talking about how terrible rape is for the individual and society and then spends four sentences arguing the most critical part of the resolution--why should we kill these people? Remember as well that Pro has the burden of proof to show why we should take away the right of these women to live--the burden of proof for the entire debate may be shared, but we can still allocate the burden on specific arguments. Murder is, and has been, a crime in literally every country for the entirety of human history because we, as humans, typically believe that killing another is wrong. I do not have to prove that killing is *objectively* wrong on some abstract metaphysical level--the fact that I'm defending what's been a common sense moral position for millennia shows who has to prove what here. Killing is only permissible in certain scenarios, the boundaries of which societies decide based on their own moral experience, such as combat, capital punishment, or self defense. Pro has to show why his impacts justify mass killing. It's rather ironic that Pro wants the debate to be judged on the impact of this on society and yet doesn't acknowledge that the response of society to this policy would be disgust, outrage and suffering as a fundamental moral principle, subjective or not, is violated. The very fact that society disapproves of killing to the point where executing vicious antisocial murderers or shooting vagrants robbing your house are considered contentious issues shows just how deep the instinct not to kill a fellow human runs--if we want to judge this debate by how it affects human society at large, we should at least judge it by the principles society would want its leaders weighing. For this reason, killing should be considered immoral and Pro is obligated to show how his impacts outweigh. Throw out his argument about how rape is destructive to the individual for four reasons: Firstly, Pro wants this debate to be judged by the effect this policy has on society, not on the individual, so we shouldn't allow him to access any impacts that directly contradict the way he intends to win the debate. Secondly, the contention is completely turned by my case--what would occur if we started executing rape victims is a widespread rape epidemic because women, fearing for their lives, wouldn't report rape. This stacks the deck ever higher in favor of the rapists trying to violate the woman as she loses the defense of the law. Pro tried to refute this in the last round by arguing that it would increase ""awareness"" of rape, but this is a literal assertion and forcing every woman who was raped to keep quiet or die is just about the worst way of raising awareness for rape I can possibly imagine. There's a reason after all that rapists often threaten their victims with death if they report them. Thirdly, if we're going to value the suffering of the individual we should look to these women's families and friends who would be forced to witness a loved one murdered by the state and have to suffer a painful loss. It's hard to even imagine how much suffering Pro's argument would cause as just about everyone in the world loses someone close to them. Fourthly and most importantly, this falls for one obvious reason and that is that if these women wanted to die they could take their life by their own hand. The very fact that the policy has to be forced proves that for the vast majority--according to Pro, 85%-- of these victims their desire to keep living outweighs their suffering--Pro gives us no reason why we should override their choices. The only possible way for Pro to win the debate at this point would be for him to have impacts so large that they outweigh the general impermissability of killing. Does his case do this? In a word, no. Even if you ignore all of my solvency takeouts showing how his case wouldn't even access his impacts, his impacts simply are not that great. Pros economic impacts (the only ones he has) shouldn't be considered viable because he offers no trade off analysis, IE use X money for Y. Pro says that rape costs the average US resident about $750 (508 + 237) per year, if I'm being generous. What POSSIBLE service could the government provide for $750 (his impact) a year that could come even CLOSE to replacing a lost loved one? As a comparison to the costs my opponent brings up, a study from the National Institutes of Health[1] looking at the costs of crimes on society found that the cost murder imposes on society is somewhere between ""$4,144,677 to $11,350,687"". Most of these costs are not tangible costs like trial and prison expenditures but rather intangible calculations based on estimates of the statistical ""value"" of the average life and the effects the loss has on the family and community. These studies may be wildly imperfect, but the point is that life is so valued by society that we can assign with a straight face this kind of dollar amount. Even IF Pro argues that the ""value"" of the life goes down because the rape makes it of lesser quality, unless he proves it's worth less than $750 he loses. The fact that these women are willing to continue living and endure such suffering shows that life must be very valuable indeed and the lowest estimate given in asocial study attempting to address the question found that life outweighs Pro's savings by, well, about 5,526 times. If Pro wants to throw out thousands of years of moral experience and focus on mere numbers, I still outweigh him by several orders of magnitude. There may be a multiplier effect for government spending but I doubt that it's a multiplier of five thousand, five hundred and twenty six. Even without looking at my case I win because I have enough offense coming off of the turns against his case. Sources: 1. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov..."	CON	6
6	Sbe38f7bf-Aa9a98cbe	The death penalty should be abolished	I would like to thank 16kadams for offering to debate me on this topic. I’m sure it will be an interesting debate. Contention 1: The death penalty is ineffective in deterring murder. A 2009 study by Michael Radelet and Traci Lacock, published in the Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology, found that over 88 percent of experts from the country’s top academic criminological societies disagreed that the death penalty acts as a deterrent to murder.[1] When examining actual data for the murder rates of states, the 2010 FBI Uniform Crime Report showed that the South had the highest rate of violent crime.[2] It also, according to the Bureau of Justice’s 2010 report on capital punishment, executed the most people.[3] The National Research Council of the National Academies, after reviewing more than three decades of research on whether or not the death penalty acts as a deterrent for murder, came to the conclusion that “the research to date on the effect of capital punishment on homicide is not informative about whether capital punishment decreases, increases, or has no effect on homicide rates,” and that “these studies should not be used to inform deliberations requiring judgments about the effect of the death penalty on homicide.”[3] Contention 2: The death penalty is unequally applied. A study conducted in Louisiana based on data collected from 1990 to 2008 by Glenn Pierce and Michael Radelet for the Louisiana Law Review, published in 2011, showed that the odds of a death sentence were almost 97 percent higher for those whose victim was white rather than those whose victim was black.[5] A second study by Pierce and Radelet in California, published in 2005, showed that those who killed whites were almost 3 times more likely to be sentenced to death than whose who killed blacks and over 4 times more likely than those who killed latinos.[6] A report by Professor David Baldus of the University of Iowa College of Law in 2011 showed that, of murder cases in Washington State with at least one white victim, the prosecution sought the death penalty over 23 percent more often than without. The death penalty was imposed 15 percent of the time in cases with at least 1 white victim in Washington State, and only 8 percent of the time with no white victims.[7] Furthermore, in the same report, the rate at which the death penalty was imposed on the accused with at least one person appointed to their defense counsel was fourteen percent higher than the rate at which it was imposed on those with retained counsel- a rate which was zero percent.[8] Indeed: in Washington State from 1981-2003, the rate at which the death penalty was imposed on those with retained counsel was zero percent. Contention 3: The death penalty is more expensive than life imprisonment. In Texas, a death penalty case costs an average of 2.3 million dollars- a number that is almost three times as high as the amount required to imprison someone in a single high-security cell for 40 years.[9] A study by the Urban Institute showed that, in Maryland, the average death penalty case costs 3 million dollars. For 1978-1999, the overall cost to taxpayers in the state will be 186 million dollars, for a total of five executions.[10] A study by the Kansas Performance Audit Report showed that, in Kansas, the cost of capital offense cases are almost 70 percent more expensive than comparable non-capital cases.[11] In Florida, enforcing the death penalty costs 51 million dollars a year more than what it would cost to put every first-degree murderer in prison without parole for life. Florida has carried out 44 executions since 1976; it costs nearly 24 million dollars per execution in the state.[12] A study carried out by Duke University in 1993 showed that North Carolina spent almost 2.16 million dollars more per criminal sentenced to execution than they would have spent if that same criminal was sentenced to life in prison. Conclusion: The death penalty is not effective in deterring people from committing murder, as shown in numerous studies. Indeed, the South - which executes the most people - also has the highest murder rate. Not only does the death penalty not deter people from committing murder, but it is also unequally applied when it is pushed for: those responsible for crimes against a white victim receive the death penalty far more often than those who commit crimes without a white victim, and those with legal counsel on retainer receive the death penalty far less than those who are appointed counsel by the state. The death penalty is also more expensive than life imprisonment without parole, as shown in numerous states. A review of the data by the prestigious National Research Council found that studies that claim the death penalty to be a deterrent are fundamentally flawed for three reasons: The studies do not factor in the effects of noncapital punishments that may also be imposed Models of potential murderers’ perceptions of and response to the use of capital punishment are incomplete/implausible Estimates of the effect of capital punishment are based on statistical models that make assumptions that are not credible Life imprisonment would be cheaper, result in a more equal legal playing field for those charged with crimes against whites/those without retained legal counsel, and would at the very least be as effective - if not more effective- as the death penalty for deterring crimes. However, it must be noted that anyone who commits a crime - especially murder - does not intend to get caught. The punishments for committing these crimes, then, are irrelevant to criminals who never intend to face them. I am prepared to address arguments about the moralty of the death penalty at a later date; I'd like to base my arguments on verifiable facts and statistical data first. Sources: [1] http://www.deathpenaltyinfo.org... [2] http://www.fbi.gov... [3] http://bjs.ojp.usdoj.gov... [4] http://www.nap.edu... [5] http://www.deathpenaltyinfo.org... [6] http://law.scu.edu... [7] http://www.mhb.com... [8] http://www.mhb.com... [9] http://www.studentabolition.org... [10] http://www.urban.org... [11] http://www.deathpenaltyinfo.org... [12] http://www.deathpenaltyinfo.org... Throughout (wording, etc.): http://www.deathpenaltyinfo.org...	PRO	7
7	S6af79c61-A214f65aa	Israeli School Trips to Auschwitz Should be Banned	Thanks for challenging me to this debate Emilrose. I'm sure that we can both agree that all the Nazi concentration camps across the Third Reich were an egregious moral atrocity to mankind, unable to be convincingly defended in any way whatsoever. So, not making light of this topic, I am interested in hearing why you think Israeli students should miss out on the opportunity to go to one of these camps, namely Auschwitz, and see for themselves this place where so much horror occurred.	CON	8
8	Sbe38f7bf-A6208d9af	The death penalty should be abolished	"C1: Deterrence My opponents first objection is my sources are out of date (2/4) and where at a time when the DP was not in use. First of all, the Becker study was researching retribution and deterrence theory. This indirectly is linked towards the DP, and is the theory and logic behind its deterrence, but does not need to be in a time during the DP. Only a time where punishment exists. This theory is also psychology, deterrence theory which is a valid theory even today [1][2]. My opponents second objection is to the first DP study in 1974. Its timing on whether the DP exists is irrelevant, as it studied the moratorium, used mathematical hypothesizes, deterrence theory from Becker, and past statistics on the DP [3]. All of this was present at the time of the study. Further, the study was not my main case, rather a historical representation. You dropped the two other studies I directly cited there. Hence I am forced to extend the majority of this point. C2: Recidivism My opponent agrees recidivism likely exists amongst murderers, but LWOP means they cannot get out of jail to commit these crimes. My opponent argues these prisoners where not sentenced to LWOP. This is blatantly false, all of the examples cited where sentenced to LWOP [4]. (he used later stated: ""Clarence Ray Allen, serving a sentence of life imprisonment without parole [...] still managed to cause the deaths of still more people) There are also dozens of cases of people who murdered children adults, everything, who got LWOP but still got parole on a later date [5]. => Rebuttals C1: DP ineffective A. Appeal to authority There are actually many loopholes to my opponents response, as if one uses an appeal to authority for a response/argument unnecessarily it is a fallacy. If there are direct observations or calculations which are superior to authority, in other words there would have to be no evidence on the subject, then it is still a fallacy [6]. And even if my opponents argument seems to woo you over, it is important to note even if the argument is valid it is still fallacious in nature (an informal fallacy) [7]. No matter how you look at this the way my opponent used an expert is actually fallacious in nature. And my opponent essentially repeats his findings on the ""consensus"", which is still a fallacy in the way he is applying it. My opponents conclusion to this is flawed as if there are direct observations available, which there are, then it is a weak argument in comparison and therefore is a fallacy unless there is no other evidence [6]. B. Fallacy again? My opponent now is falsely arguing I had an appeal to authority fallacy, which is blatantly false. I was quoting John Lott, who was quoting statistical data. I was NOT saying ""Lott says it so its true"". I was saying ""according to Lott, the statistics show..."" Instead of falsely accusing someone of a fallacy, you need to argue the statistics themselves. So the point of the argument stands and is extended. And now my opponent challenges credibility of the source. He argues economists are not qualified to deal with crime. This is blatantly false and the statement itself reaks of, well, a lie. Economists job is to look at the economy, obviously, but also they deal with peoples psychology to understand how the economy works. This is logically showing that economists are very qualified to be in the criminology business. Further, economists play a huge role in the study of crime and their research is considered valid [8]. Lott also has research fields in law and public choice theory [9]. He is a really well rounded guy who, if you look at the facts, is a reliable source if your looking for statistics. My opponent then criticizes another source, Wesley Lowe. I am NOT saying Lowe said it so its true, like you essentially said with the 88% figure (note that's not even a good consensus). Citing logic in the words of others with a footnote is NOT an appeal to authority. It is really only an appeal to authority in the sense I am citing his words, but if this is a fallacy the purpose of sources in debate does not exist. This is an illogical accusation. As my opponent drops the logical and statistical part of the argument, I too extend this point. C. Conflicting evidence My opponent claims because this academy says studies are flawed it should be disregarded. They never said it was flawed, rather that evidence is contradictory and inconclusive [10]. Just because says something is contradictory does not mean evidence cannot lean in any one's favor. And the evidence is not in your favor, statistically or logically. Last round my statistics, which you dropped, still stand. My opponent then says my attack on the journal is unfounded. My opponent obviously did not read my response in any great length. They had a page titled ""Anti-Capital Punishment resources"" (see round 2). So is that objection really unfounded? My opponent then accuses me, again. Citing an economist opinion on his statistical data is not a fallacy. Explaining someones results is not a fallacy, again if it was the point of sources in debate would be fallacious in nature. C2: Unequal Changing the wording to racist is not inherently bad, its shorter. And its what you are saying. A. Race Before I address this, may I ask how would the racism effect not role over on LWOP? Couldn't they just unequally sentence blacks/whites in non-capital cases? My opponent cannot answer this therefore the point is a moot before it can even launch. My opponent then claims I misrepresented him. Did I? I showed whites are executed faster and more often, whites are logically more likely to kill whites in their own neighborhoods. This means it is not racist as whites are more common peoples. Just like if blacks where the majority and killed their own kind more often it would not be biased towards less murdered whites. B. Council I know what you meant, just because private lawyers are worse at defending clients then public ones is not the fault of the justice system, rather the lawyer himself. C3: Cost Actually, I did address the cost argument. (see round 2, last paragraph) I agreed the up-front costs, the things your sources looked into, for LWOP are lower then the DP. But the life time cost (30-50 years of imprisonment) cost the state 1.2-3.6 million dollars MORE then equivalent DP cases. Here is a picture: Source: http://www.prodeathpenalty.com... My opponent then claims the plea bargain argunment fails. This is again a failure to read my argunment. The DP is more costly on a case per case basis, but over time is cheaper. And with plea bargains makes the oberall trial costs of ALL DP cases and ALL LWOP cases about the same. How do we know this? States that end the DP have no significant drop in trial costs [11]. As we can see this makes any one trial 0$, which really helps the overall averages to make the DP cost the same, when you average every single trial anyway. As stated the DP resulted in plea bargians 50% of the time (round 2). Based on this we can see the DP's overall cost can be cut in more then half on this issue. Conclusion: All of my opponents fallacy accusations where false and he dropped the logical and statistical points of deterence. Based on this I was forced to extend the majori of my case and rebuttals. Also my opponents other two contentions where thorugly refuted. Vote CON. Sources: [1] http://tiny.cc... [2] http://tiny.cc... [3] Isaac Ehrlich, ""The Deterrent Effect of Capital Punishment: A Question of Life and Death,"" American Economic Review, (1975) [4] http://tiny.cc... [5] http://tiny.cc... [6] http://tiny.cc... [7] http://tiny.cc... [8] http://www.nber.org... [9] http://en.wikipedia.org... [10] http://www.nationaljournal.com... [11] http://www.wesleylowe.com..."	CON	9
9	S2b7532f8-A524a316f	Raped Women Should Be Euthanised	Framework I got tangled with the LD Format, which I thought only governs the structure of the rounds (1. Proposition cases, 2. rebuttals to propositions, 3. defence of own case). In any case I made my values statement in ‘Strategy’ (pseudo-framework) explicit enough “Euthanizing rape victims would effectively free the state’s financial and medical resources and provide a net positive effect on society”. Just what I meant by ‘positive effect’ I made explicit later in the round, where it would allow for the same number of living beings without the suffering effects, and lower employment, as well as economic impact on society to be realized. Those are the values I have affirmed and Con has not contested these. Hence the framework, while not ideal, is not something Con has attempted to attack, while I have challenges his in ‘presuppositions’, hence this portion is still very much in contention. I have defended the moral obligation take on the resolution in the last round, and even assuming pragmatics are an issue I have addressed these in the previous round positively regardless. ‘Murder’/Killing The main bone of contention in this debate is Con’s repeated assertion that euthanasia = murder, and murder = bad. However essentially all of Con’s arguments have been gross exaggerations and fear mongering. Con continues to assert that these women have a right to live, yet provides zero reason to accept why this is the case (without even considering my positive reasons why we should reject this), especially given that our euthanization of these women is indeed justified. Con continues to equivocate the proposition with “murder”. As far as the proposition stands, women do not have an inherent, or intrinsic right to live, and most certainly no more right than any other living being, such as animals. Affirmation that women have some sort of special right to live appears to just be a case of special pleading by Con. Given he has refused to support this right (at least in a way I can challenge it), we should reject all such arguments and assertions of his out of hand. Con concedes there are circumstances in which society finds killing other people is permissible, which seems pretty clear evidence that there is no ‘fundamental axiom against ‘murder’, or whatever Con defines euthanasia as. Hence all these arguments are just more special pleading by Con. My arguments come from our society’s moral experience, and are objective in their answers. I have already addressed the problems of moral objectivism which is what Pro implies with his repetitious “murder is wrong”, assuming taking a life to be absurd leads to ridiculous propositions where situations of extreme universal suffering are outweighed by a single saved life. We forfeit lives every day since every sum of money spent superficially (e.g. entertainment, or other non-essentials) goes some way to sacrificing lives of others, since that same amount of capital can be used to raise/save other lives (childbirth, medical care). Thus society is clearly not against balancing the books with people’s lives on the grand scheme of things. Moreover society strongly disapproves of the points of suffering, societal well-being and liability made in my affirmative case (which Con has not attempted to refute). Pro is commits the fallacy of hasty generalization in arguing that because one subset of killing people is wrong, that the entirety of killing people is wrong, he has refuted himself by arguing that there are instances where it is seen as permissible, and hence cannot make this generalization. To formalize: P1. If killing is morally wrong, then all killing of other people is wrong P2. Not all killing of other people is wrong C. Killing other people is not morally wrong Economics Con uses a classic salesman tactic by taking the small-incrimental figure and comparing it to the one-off cost of a murder of a different type to make the difference seem significant. He compares the per-unit untangable cost of murder (virtually all >95% of the costs were non-tangable from his own study) against the per US Citizen/annum tangable cost of rape, and then gloats about an alleged ‘5,526x’ discrepancy between the cost of rape and murder. Well of course you are going to obtain wildly different values by comparing apples to oranges! This is just absurd form from Con on this. From my opening round I gave a cost of ~$127 billion *VICTIM* impact of rape on the US (higher than murder, which doesn’t include the tangable increase medical costs per victim which are obviously lacking. To cite the horrible inaccuracies in the numbers Con presented for the intangible ‘costs’ of murder, the following logic used: “… that does not mean anyone would voluntarily exchange their life for $1.9 million. Instead, that number is arrived at by estimating the incremental amount that individuals are willing to pay for a reduced risk of death, where the commodity is “risk of death,” not death itself... if 100,000 people would collectively pay $30 each to reduce their risk of dying from 1/100,000 to 0, one would say that the group values the “statistical life” that is likely to be saved by $3 million” Such studies assume a linear no threshold theory (hugely problematic in real-world applications), and such sums arise from very little if any relation to actual monetary cost, and has little in any relevant to the intangible impact of murder anyway.[2] Further, Con ignores that death necessarily entails zero tangable victim cost, zero victim medical cost, and additional space on the job market, whereas rape entails extensive medical and therapy costs, continued and persistent victim and family suffering because of the compromised mental and social state of the victim. ‘Murder’ simply does not entail these long-term negative social well-being and economical impacts as well as reduced work productivity. With the money saved (an excess of $127 billion), we can afford to breed 31 million new children every year (assuming a $4020/annum cost/child per annum), many times greater than the number of women that are raped in the US every year (160,000 according to Con).[1] Even accounting for improving the quality of upbringing of these new people the value of removing the costs associated with maintaining raped women are easily outstripped by the benefits of breeding new people without the trauma. Con attacks my case for lacking impacts, which I thought were readily apparent anyway (discussed later), yet there are no impacts to compare my case to of his own, no impacts of not implementing the policy, no comparison of the negative financial consequences of implementing the policy over not implementing it. As such on financial impacts alone you should vote Pro. Society Contrary to Con’s complaints of a lack of impacts of employing the policy, most of my opening round WAS the impacts. The affirmation of the negative effects of rape on both the victim, economy, family, employment, workforce are all impacts of what would happen if we did not implement this policy, I see no reason to accept that they will be any different. A 180O on these impacts of not implementing this policy would be realized if the policy was implemented. The economical backlash would be reversed; there would reduce suffering, and more room for more viable employment prospects. “…We avoid virtually all of these consequences of rape on both the victim and society” Pro argues that society’s response to this policy would be “disgust & outrage”…. so what (even if it’s true)? How does that negate the arguments given, it is not clear how anger and contempt affirm that we should not euthanize, since people’s reaction isn’t inherently linked to well-being, I would find it difficult to do any sort of moral calculation based on this, and it prima facie has no effect on economics, and other social issues. Pro argues that the resolution would create a culture in which women would refuse to report their rapes and consequently hand rapists a ‘blank check’. Now only does he provide no substantiation for this, only speculation, he also ignores the current statistics which entail only a 40% current report rape and only a 10% conviction rate of the reported rapes. Essentially, rapists already so have a ‘blank check’, yet we do not see a ‘rape epidemic’. Furthermore I argued last round how the opposite would in fact be true. Furthermore, I am proposing a systematic program of cleansing raped victims from the population, ‘for the greater good’, if such a program was installed it would be on the presupposition that those who do not want to submit themselves to euthanization would be doing to at the expense of the community, and hence would be stigmatized anyway for not submitting themselves for euthanization. There would be hence moral coersion of the rape victims to turn themselves in, as well as social stigma against those who do not. The same investigation and conviction of the perpetrators can occur regardless, hence Con’s points are bunk. Con argues that the families and friends would suffer as a result, but ignores that they suffer significantly anyway while the rape victim lives, and once the rape victim is euthanized, the grief is only a temporary set-back in well being, if at all. Con also argues that my statistics entail that 85% of women don’t want to commit suicide, but this is just false, just before 85% of rapes women don’t commit suicide, doesn’t mean they don’t want to commit suicide. Just because less than 1% of people own a Ferrari, doesn’t mean 99% don’t want to own a Ferrari, this is horribly fallacious reasoning by Con, and is partially the reason why this resolution sets to euthanize (assisted suicide) rape victims. Conclusion If you share the value in healthy, human lives, with excellent well-being, if you oppose the emotional, physical, mental and monetary penalty that rape inflicts on society as it stands, then please vote Pro. 1. http://en.wikipedia.org...	PRO	10
10	S6af79c61-A378e7ad6	Israeli School Trips to Auschwitz Should be Banned	Thank you for an interesting and well-informed debate, *********************************************** Dealing with some of the points you raised this round: As you are a Jew, I am reluctant to question your expertise over your own religion and culture. But, as far as I understand it, the Jewish faith is separate from being a Jew (maternally speaking). Because everyone born of a Jew, is a Jew by definition it is more than just a religion but an hereditary cultural group. God's chosen people, with claim over the Promised Land (claim over Jerusalem), have been identified almost as if a racial group over time with certain stereotypical racial features. There are some minority factions of the faith (like Karaite Judaism) who believe that being born a Jew is the only qualification for being a Jew. Being a Jew, is to be part of all a culture, a religion, a specific national identity, and a race. One of the issues is that both Israel and Palestine claim ownership of Jerusalem. And because, traditionally Jews have looked to Jerusalem as a centre of their faith they have also looked towards Israel. I personally don't know why at the March of the Living event students of other nationalities (like Canada) would raise the Israeli flag if it weren't a symbol of Jewish solidarity as a whole. It's vexing. Why would non-Jewish Canadian students be showing solidarity for Jews by flying a flag that doesn't in any way represent Jews? Why would there be non-Jewish, Canadian, Zionists? (I know you can't respond in the debate but if you have the answer please put it in the comments). As regards to the Soviet flag, flying that would be like flying the swastika; it is a symbol of a brutal autocratic regime which ensued in millions of deaths. It is true that the USSR fought against the Nazis, under the Potsdam and Yalta treaties, but I would also have issue with Allied or USA flags flying over concentration camps because although some members of these groups faced the camps, it does not belong to them. If they did, there would almost be a colonist undertone (which we do not want to promote given how they did occupy Germany after WW2). Numerically and culturally, the Jews have the largest claim to the horrors of the Holocaust; Nazism and Judaism are inseparably linked in all of our minds. The Nazis massacred many other groups, the disabled, gypsies, homosexuals and I would have no problem with the LGBT flag flown in support of the latter. If the Israeli flag is being used to support Jews and not Israeli politics, then I think we would both agree that there isn't a problem with its use providing it doesn't encourage domestic anger and aggression in any way. I course don't mean to say that Israeli Jews are representative of all Jews, only that Israel has historically been a grounding centre for Jews. And, this still does not negate my proposition that 'you cannot deny any Jews access to the sites of the Holocaust.' Even if they act in a certain unfavourable way, Israeli Jews are still Jews and should not be denied the chance to visit a place where the genocide of their race occurred. I would go as far to say that all Jews, no matter of their politics, are entitled to visit a concentration camp if their finances permit it. Asking them not to denies their cultural identity; it is like preventing the various factions of black Americans from visiting the historic sites of the Civil Rights movement because some are ideologically in favour of black militancy. Too restrictive and not dealing with the problem: black militancy. The problem is Zionist militancy: not students going to concentration camps. Those who can should be tackling the former, not banning the latter. Israeli Jews have every right to be angry; forced to conscript to the Israeli army at 18, to fight a war with Palestine who continually proves to be a threat to Israel as Israel is to them. It was only in the year 2000 when Palestine bombed Israel; I'm sure this gives many affected a right to be angry. This does not excuse their behaviour. Being offended or angry is never an excuse to lash out and be truculent, even if it a reason. And as Jews, they identify with the Jewish struggle of their ancestors. Though the two conflicts aren't directly related, I don't think we can deny a group the right to culturally identify themselves and their current struggles with the past. Arab Israelis (15-20% of the population), because of their identification with Palestine, actually are not conscripted into the army. Some choose to volunteer (1). Therefore, I would say they would be exempt from your argument and should be allowed to fly to concentration camps through their schools. (1) http://www.ynetnews.com... Badly behaved students should be punished; not the entire school or school system as a whole. My analogy to the library was meant to illuminate how there ought to be a strict code of conduct, a respect for the environment, at concentration camps as though one were in a place one dared not act in a certain way. If individuals are being disrespectful in such environments they ought to be told off and perhaps acted against depending on the severity of their actions. I of course agree that commercial exploitation is unfair and should be reprimanded and discouraged. But, it doesn't mean that Israeli students cannot fly to concentration camps like Auschwitz or Flossenburg by non-exploitative companies available to them. Hopefully the nine bosses punished will provide a sufficient deterrent for others in the travel industry not to act in such a manner again. *********************************************** There I shall conclude. Again, thanks for the debate!	CON	11
11	Sbe38f7bf-A592500b3	The death penalty should be abolished	I will be arguing for the removal of the death penalty, to be replaced by life imprisonment; my opponent will be arguing that it should remain a penalty for crimes. Maximum time to argue, three days; voting period, two weeks. 8,000 character argument length. Four rounds. Death penalty: a legal process whereby a person is put to death by the state as a punishment for a crime (Wikipedia). Life imprisonment: any sentence of imprisonment for a serious crime under which the convicted person is to remain in jail for the rest of his or her life or until paroled (Wikipedia).	PRO	12
12	Sbe38f7bf-A879faaf	The death penalty should be abolished	==>Summary of each argunment<== C1: Deterrence A. Experts My opponents arguing here is a clear appeal to authority fallacy, instead of conceding the minor point he attempts to argue it. But, as stated, all argunments in the form my opponent presented are fallacy type in nature {1}. And even if the experts are indeed experts it is still a fallacy in nature if there is other evidence to come by. In other words this is a last resort scenario. B. States My opponent, likely attempting to get an eye for an eye (ironic, he is against the DP) argued that I committed a fallacy with John Lott and Wesley Lowe. But I was not saying X said Y therefore Y is true. I quoted Lott who, himself, was citing statistics. If this is a fallacy then the point of citing sources is obsolete. In other words this is illogical. And Wesley Lowe also cited evidence. He showed, with facts proven by other authors {2}, that comparing states does not lead to any particular conclusion as it excludes too many factors (population, socio economic etc.) Also note, as I stated in round 3 and 2, the southern states HAVE ALWAYS had higher crime rates, even during the moratorium of the DP in the 70s. In other words the DP has no effect. As also stated, most states had a drop in crime in the 80-90s. States that chose the DP had faster declines in homicides. As we can see from this summary my opponents position is bogus. C. Conflicting studies This is the only legitament argunment my opponent gave, but I showed based on the sheer number of studies there is no question: the DP saves lives. As John Lott said in round two, 9/12 studies show a deterrent effect. C2: Unjust A. Race I argued racism here would likely role over to LWOP, which only seems logical. The rest of the objections/stats are therefore irrelevant. Though for those who forgot I destroyed his argunments, most of which criticized lawyers not the DP system. And again, wouldn't these problems exist in a LWOP system? It's not like it would vanish. This point is a moot, abolishing the DP would not fix thd problem , assuming it exists. B. Lawyers Rolls over too LWOP cases too. C3: cost I showed it A) through plea bargains (cost = 0) it would make the DP, averaging a cases together, trial cost as much as LWOP B) other costs (housing, food, medical care) would make LWOP cost more. Therefore the plea bargain makes the LWOP 1 million dollars more expensive then the DP overall. Plea bargins make trial costs overall even {3}, and the other factors make it cost even more (3 million dollars more). --> my case C1: Deterence My opponent focused on sources not content. One I already said was old, and used it as backroubd info not my case (I explained that). Therefore the detterence effect remains. The second source he criticized was an odd move, as the theory it argues is still considered valid today {4}. C2: retribution Claims LWOP means no escape. The con shows dozens of documented cases of escape leading to murder, or murderers still getting parole and continuing their passion -- killing. ==>the forfeit<== This does not warrant loss of debate, rather loss of conduct. Con (me) should receive conduct. Conclusion: My opponents argunments are false/illogical or a fallacy. Von deserves conduct, for forfeit, and argunments for reasons above. Sources: {1} http://www.fallacyfiles.org... {2} http://old.nationalreview.com... {3} [study] http://www.cjlf.org... {4} A) legal Deterence: http://en.wikipedia.org...(legal) B) psychology: http://en.m.wikipedia.org...(psychology)	CON	13
13	S2b7532f8-A81ed93f4	Raped Women Should Be Euthanised	*Leave a message in the comments if you want to accept* Note to voters: 2,500 ELO, and conduct may not be rewarded just by virtue of the debate topic at hand. Points should be rewarded according to Ragnar's DDO FAQ. I thought perhaps the linked debate could have been done better... The BoP is shared in this debate. Definitions: Rape: Forced sexual intercourse against the will of the victim LD Format, 10,000 characters, 48h R1: Acceptance R2: My opening arguments followed by Con's opening arguments (No rebuttals by Con) R3: Rebuttals to opening arguments R4: Defense of your original arguments	PRO	14
14	S6af79c61-Ad3e1bf7f	Israeli School Trips to Auschwitz Should be Banned	My argument would simply be this-- you cannot deny any Jews access to the sites of the Holocaust. It doesn't matter if they're being 'disrespectful', using it as political tool, concentration camps are integral to their cultural identity and obviously why (out of anywhere in the world) Israelis have chose to demonstrate their anger there. Sure, if they were the neo-Nazis making pilgrimages, we might deny them entry in glorifying the Third Reich. But, they're not. They are angry and suffering Jews. History While I agree that using present-day programs to integrate Palestinians and Israelis would be ideal, this is beside the point. Jewish solidarity and national identity is what is being put under debate here: do young people lose the right to visit concentration camps because of their nation's politics and the Israel-Palestine conflict (which existed prior to WW2)? I agree that the 2-year conscription of non-Arab Israelis is wrong and that a trip to Auschwitz shouldn't just be for pumping them up to fight. Yet, going to Auschwitz, it's hard not to be angry and horrified; if they send children there to feel these emotions, it is also because the children will feel a resonance and horror for those who died there. It is respectful, in a sense, only wrongly harnessed for political ends which we can only blame politicians for and not the children themselves. Nationalism and Disrespect Of course the USSR flag has certain negative connotations, namely that of dictatorship, but this is a reductive representation of the Israeli flag. Israel is the heart of the Jewish faith-- it is where their Holy sites remain, such as the second Temple Mount in it's capital Jerusalem. This is one of the factors of why Palestine and Israel are fighting because both Jews and Muslims/Christians (Palestine) hold claim to the same sites of faith, the same land, to deleterious rivalry and conflict. The March of the Living event, which takes children from all over the world and takes them to Poland, young people of different nationalities wave the Israeli flag. It is an emblem of Jewish solidarity, not just Israeli nationalism. Here is an image of Canadian students waving it: https://upload.wikimedia.org... Jewish nationalism, Zionism, has existed from the start of the 20th century. It isn't a development of modern politics; the conflict has a long history. If some children start talking loudly in a library (disrespecting its behavioural code) do you ban all children from going to the library or do you punish those children who are disrespectful? Punish the disrespectful, sure, but do not deny a whole nation's youth this part of history. There are probably lots of students who go to Poland with nothing but the greatest respect for the sites they visit. Think of the minority Arab population in Israel-- no ties to Zionism or conscription, should they also be denied a chance to go and see the concentration camps? They make up around 15% of the population. One principal does not by any means show a consensus amongst schools and the latter is what is required if a boycott is going to be put in place. To gain any real authority, nationalistic beliefs by the school system would have to change meaning that there is no longer appeal for the trips. Since this conflict is so deep-rooted in the culture, many teachers and headmasters are likewise Zionists. Therefore, I would argue a boycott is unlikely and idealistic (even if well-intentioned). Cost The $400 included return flights, so our figures are the same. I'm sure travel companies don't provide schools just a one-way ticket to Poland; they also need to arrange for them to return. Ethically, I would always be reticent if I was profiting from the Holocaust. There is the same issue about who gets the profits from Hitler's Mein Kampf's, nobody wanting to claim them. This issue tells us more about Israeli economics than it does disrespect. And whilst agree those nine travel bosses should be reprimanded, they in no way represent all travel companies in Israel that schools can operate through. Therefore, providing there are some who offer schools a fair price to send their children across borders, shouldn't Israelis be allowed to go?	CON	15
15	S6af79c61-A358d0cde	Israeli School Trips to Auschwitz Should be Banned	By Israeli school trips I'm referring to excursions with high school students from Israel, and Auschwitz-Birkenau is a former concentration camp from WW2, located in south-west Poland and now open to visitors. As Pro I will be arguing that students from Israel should not be permitted *organised* trips there, Con will of course be arguing the opposite. Character limit is 8000, first round acceptance, then opening arguments, rebuttals and closing arguments. TheUnexaminedLife will be arguing as Con, I look forward to this debate and good luck to him)	PRO	16
16	S6af79c61-Ac36e6209	Israeli School Trips to Auschwitz Should be Banned	**Closing Argument** Firstly I need to remind Con that I am not referring to 'Jews', but Israeli's, or more specifically--student groups from Israel. The Jewish identity is and should be different to that of the Israeli identity. I am Jewish for example, but I am not from Israel. The Jewish identity, as I see it, is an identity that encompasses many different countries and should rather revolve around the religion itself rather than *politics* or one specific national identity. I personally see no issue with having other Jewish elements at Auschwitz (lighting candles, holding prayer, etc.) This is what it would mean to truly pay respect to the Jews killed there--a national flag does not, especially as the people held and killed at Auschwitz were not from Israel; what value or meaning does it really hold for them? I am referring to Jews who had a Polish national identity, a Ukrainian national identity, Russian national identity, a Hungarian national identity...Jews who had lived in Europe for centuries; the Jewish men who had actually fought for Germany in the First World War--the Israeli flag, it holds invariably no intrinsic value to them. I'd also point out how emigration to Israel was a 'last resort' for some, quite a few tried to re-settle but found that they had obviously lost everything (family, friends, possessions/money). And a lot of Russian Jews did not emigrate until later, due to not being able to openly practice Judaism under Soviet rule. It remains that while Jews largely dominate Israel's population, Israel is not representative of Jewish people as a whole. (8.) https://en.m.wikipedia.org... The claim that (they) 'are angry and suffering Jews' just does not work, they are not angry and suffering. They are people that have a relatively nice life in Israel, and most of the ones that go come from wealthier backgrounds anyway as they have to pay the minimum $1000 (sometimes it's 1600) to actually make the trip. Many of their ancestors suffered, but they, themselves, are not suffering and have no legitimate personal reason to be angry. Which refers to the point I had regarding 'entitlement' when Israeli student groups visit Auschwitz, which leads to them disregarding other visitors; again I can't link anything specific as there's literally no additional sources, but I've heard various accounts of pushing, shoving and the like from Israeli students from people who've also been at Auschwitz at the time. And once more, regardless of the souls who perished there, how exactly do they feel about the Israeli flag being wavered about? Though I have relatives and friends who've visited Auschwitz, I have never gone myself but if I did and saw Israeli flags there I would be displeased. Onto some more of Cons points: He more or less admits that Israeli students would fare better learning about the current scenario: which is an ongoing and intrinsically harmful conflict with the Palestinians--one that Con is right in saying actually began before WW2, but certainly escalated some time after and with each war, the most recent one being only three years ago--a war which involved many casualties and fatalities, and with pretty high levels of propaganda...that's just so easy to believe. Auschwitz is basically a preserved site of suffering, not a platform for you to go around waving flags and flaunting your politics, the same should naturally be expected from non-Israeli's. In going on these trips to Auschwitz, Israeli teenagers are essentially buying into the idea that there is a 'common enemy' and a legitimate reason to be so preoccupied with the military and defending oneself. These days it is of course not Nazi Germany, it is Palestine and other Arab/Muslim states that they are made to believe they're fighting against. It cements the realisation that Jewish people have suffered...and will never suffer again, no matter what measures or what lengths one has to go to, to reach that. So things such as military combat, settlements on disputable land, lesser rights for Palestinians...they become justified. I'm also aware as to how long Zionism has existed, it has two separate forms: religious and political, but since the start of the last century the two become intertwined and Zionism as it practiced now--is a very negative thing. Con references how the Soviet flag being displayed at Auschwitz would indeed be offensive, on the basis of it being representative of a 'dictatorship'...but I would again argue that the Israeli flag and its political connotations, is extremely offensive for some; non-Jews and Jews alike. They library comparison is also not really varied, as we are talking about what was formally a death camp, and a controversial nation state. Con continues to agree with key parts of my argument (Zionist culture, etc.) but asserts that because of this culture, imposing a ban may very well be unrealistic--he has a point here, but it isn't exactly my argument; which is that there's *enough* objective reasons for such a ban to be in place. It's possible that with the more politically neutral principles that do it, it may become more of an acceptable thing; and there's at least enough parents who either just cannot afford it or see it as wasteful to spend that kind of money on one short trip. As for Israel's 15% Arab population and Arab teenagers being denied the right to see Auschwitz, Israeli (nationalistic) propaganda is also an issue for them--as they undertake mandatory conscription as well. But the possibility of a non-Israeli Jewish family paying that kind of cost is perhaps unlikely, to my knowledge, I have never heard of a Christian Arab or Muslim Arab family in Israel going on one of these trips. Concerning the cost, $400 is under half that of the minimum that each student is charged--$1000, which does indeed mean that parents are purposely being shortchanged and that these trips are a marketable area for travel companies in Israel. This strongly undermines the 'education' argument as I have previously noted, and I do not see how charging parents more than you should be (for a trip of this gravity) is justified. Anyway, I will leave my argument here. I thank you Con again for accepting this debate and doing his research! It was well-written and carefully considered.	PRO	17
17	S2b7532f8-A53598845	Raped Women Should Be Euthanised	"I am in thett3’s debt for accepting this most important debate. Strategy I intend to show that on balance it would generally be better for society if we euthanized rape victims, not only does rape induce long-term negative well-being on the victim, but negatively affects society on a whole with the woman’s maintainance. Euthanizing rape victims would effectively free the state’s financial and medical resources and provide a net positive effect on society. Negative Effects of Rape Physical The negative physical and mental effects of rape cannot be understated, they are both broad and diverse. The physical effects of rape frequently include, and are not limited to vaginal bleeding, dyspareunia (painful sexual intercourse), hypoactive sexual desire disorder, vaginal inflammation, urinary tract infections, chronic pelvic pain as well as sexually transmitted diseases especially HIV/AIDS.[1] Many of these physical consequences inevitably leads to a lower quality of life, and lower well-being, since the female generally experiences reduced sexual satisfaction within her life (due the related mental and physical effects) which is extenuated by infections that occur at a significantly increased rate due to the lower use of contraception amongst rapists. From physical effects alone it is clear that women generally lead lifes of reduced well-being but these are but a fraction of the issues that result from rape. Another serious physical consideration is of course, rape induced pregnancy in female victims, which is undetectable for several weeks after rape has occurred and leads to serious ethical, and legal dilemmas of choices between aborting the child or giving birth to a baby with the rapist’s genes and the social stigma attached. On one hand a baby may be aborted, but often leads to long-term emotional side-effects of the mother, who willingly killed her foetus, as well as the community that are aware of this, or the other hand with the mother having to raise her rapist’s child, an obvious long term physical and emotional burden. Then there is the social stigma associated with such a pregnancy/abortion/birth. “Women who raise their rape-conceived children depart from the prototype and are, as a result, viewed with suspicion” Moreover, special cases end up being needed to be made in law if the mother chooses to raise such a child, since not only must the mother tolerate her bastard child, but also the father’s custodial rights “Without such laws, in most states, a man who fathers through rape has the same custody and visitation privileges to that child as does any other father of a child. M”[2] Mental The mental effects of rape also cannot be understated, a review of several studies on rape preclude: “Rape victims were found to be significantly more depressed, generally anxious, and fearful than control subjects.”[3] Of course this is over simplistic, other effects include self-blame complexes, increased suicide, depression, anxiety, PTSD, increased shame, lack of motivation, empathy, self-harm, anger, aggression and increased suicide rates. All of these negatively impact the person’s well-being, but just as importantly affects their ability to work, and be productive for the economy. Anxiety and depression for example demands extensive accommodation, and hence directly reduces the productivity per capita (more on this later).[4,6] Self-blame and anger are directly related, Tagney states: “""In day-to-day life, when people are shamed and angry they tend to be motivated to get back at a person and get revenge.""[5] Moreover, self-blame (‘shame’) leads to increase isolation (akin to the effects of anxiety), and generally victims cannot be convinced emotionally that it’s “not their fault”. Generally self-blame complexes need to be treated with cognitive restructuring therapy, which itself is costly and of limited availability.[6] Self blame (‘shame’) is also connected to eating disorders, substance abuse, and other moral complexes. Indeed the latter leads to increased legal trouble for the victim.[6] Several studies also conclude that the victims are significantly more prone to committing suicide, which raises the question, if they are going to kill themselves anyway, then why not in a hospitable and sterile environment and manner?[7,8] To quote Jonathan Davidson: “Subjects reporting a history of sexual assault were more likely to be female, younger, and to report higher rates of lifetime suicide attempt and posttraumatic stress symptoms; no differences were found in the number of chronic medical disorders, major depression, substance abuse or substance dependence, or panic attacks. Nine (14.9%) of the 67 index group subjects reported a suicide attempt, 4 of whom reported their first sexual assault as occurring before age 16 years.”[8] Furthermore, as alluded to earlier, rape causes significant stigmatization in several cultures, including highly developed western cultures, especially in cultures of high religiosity (known as secondary victimization). The victim is frequently seen as ‘damaged goods’, for good reason considering the aforementioned physical & mental health effects, but also because of:[9] 1. ‘Unclean’ Loss of virginity 2. Sex outside of wedlock 3. Taboos Such victims may suffer isolation and disownment from friends & family, and may have known-on effects for marriage, especially in Islamic societies including within Western countries.[10] Financial Cost Several studies have concluded the tremendous financial burden that rape victgims have on the united stated, the figures given below neglect a few considerations, but speak for themselves regardless “The National Institute of Justice estimates that rape and other sexual assaults of adults cause an annual minimum loss of 127 billion dollars, or about $508 per U.S. resident. This includes tangible losses such as initial police response, medical care, mental health services, property damage or loss, and loss of productivity; and intangible losses, such as loss of quality of life, pain, and suffering. These costs do not include the costs of investigation, prosecution or incarceration of offenders. This figure makes sexual assault the costliest crime; even higher than murder.” http://ajp.psychiatryonline.org... “The acute, immediate outcomes of a rape include non-genital trauma for 25-45% of survivors, genital trauma in 19-22%, sexually transmitted diseases in up to 40% and pregnancy in 1-5% that’s an estimated 32,000 rape-related pregnancies a year among adult women in the U.S. (Holmes). These and other ongoing medical concerns mean that, compared to before the assault, survivors' visits to physicians increase 18% in the year of the assault, 56% in the year following, and 31% in the second year following the assault (Koss, 1993). Average medical costs for an assault survivor during a one year period average $89 to $239 higher than those of non-victims” Reasons for Euthanization By euthanizing women who have been raped, we avoid virtually all of these consequences of rape on both the victim and society. We both reduce the resource footprint the rape victims have, which allows for more healthy, non-raped children to be born and thrive, also it frees up resources spent on medical care for more economical allocation. New nurseries, healthcare, etc can be provided with the money saves, which would positively affect the well-being of more people than would be the case for mitigating rape, which is of limited efficacy anyway. The victims of rape consequentially contribute significantly less to society as a result of the mental health effects, and as such by allocating the recourses that person would have consumed on to potentially healthy individuals, we provide a more economical environment, with higher productivity per capita. The case for euthanasia is multiple-fronted and as I see it, not insignificant. I wish Con best of luck in his opening round. References 1. http://en.wikipedia.org... 2. [ http://georgetownlawjournal.org... 3. http://www.svfreenyc.org... 4. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov... 5. Tangney, June Price and Dearing, Ronda L., Shame and Guilt, The Guilford Press, 2002 6. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov... 7. http://archpsyc.jamanetwork.com... 8. http://www.jstor.org... 9. http://www.svfreenyc.org... 10. http://www.aina.org... 11. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov..."	PRO	18
18	S6af79c61-A411e5feb	Israeli School Trips to Auschwitz Should be Banned	Responding to your main contentions-- 1 'History is often just an excuse' Even if it is an excuse, if history is given to these young people, should it not be permitted? I don't think anyone goes to Auschwitz as if it were a theme park and will certainly not come out unscathed. When I went to Auschwitz a fellow student described it as 'a factory of death'; it has a certain sombre atmosphere, a certain gloom, which isn't easily ignored. If they learn and feel this atmosphere, could this weigh up against some of the negative effects of their trip? 2 'Nationalistic ideals' Around 75% of the Israeli population is Jewish (1) so I can see perfectly why a political leader might use Holocaust rhetoric for their own political ends. I actually find this point you raise the most concerning. Before Hitler's rise to power, Germany's anti-Semite beliefs and policy of Germanification (of the purity of being German) were deep-rooted. He did not make up these ideas. To hear the same 'us and them' dichotomy used by a politican inciting nationalistic beliefs is concerning. For people to then act upon these beliefs at concentration camps, startling. But, this is a domestic problem and will not be solved by stopping people going to the camps (which have clearly become a symbol of their national identities and suffering). Their actions are the effect and not the cause, though in themselves are inexcusable if physically innocuous. Wouldn't it only stir up and make all the more fervent these nationalistic feelings if they were prevented from going to express their Jewish identities at European concentration camps? I imagine their feeling arise from some of the same problems Germany faced after WW1: a class divide, oppression by international powers and their conflict (with Palestine) which has caused lots of anger and desperation. It is only natural that the youth want to both express this anger (the Youth Bulge theory suggesting they the most likely to partake in social activism) and scapegoat people for nationalistic problems. Their leader is feeding into this by saying, 'they will not put us back into (the) gas chambers'. Non-colonial (interventionist) support and connections need to be offered to Israel to ease their pain; not a restriction on their freedom of movement. To do so would be to anger the nationalistic Israelis and to deprive an opportunity to those who aren't and go to Auschwitz for non-political reasons. Fortunately, unlike Germany's under the Weimar government, the Israeli economy is quite strong given its natural resources-- but this surely only fuels a proliferation of weaponry and conflict. (1) http://www.cbs.gov.il... (2) An explanation of the Israeli-Palestine conflict: http://www.huffingtonpost.co.uk... 3 Disrespectful of the Holocaust Animated by their strong emotions, youth behaviour at the concentration camps is surely offensive to many other visitors even if mostly harmless. Zeev Dagani (the principle of the school you cited) said that students felt 'emotional trauma' at Auschwitz-- and so they should. People should still be outraged and angry, not only because of political and cultural resonance with the Jewish people being part of the same social group. No one goes to a concentration camp and just takes selfies and protest. Perhaps disrespectful students could be rebuked by Polish staff and guards for poor behaviour, just as if a child were being disrespectful in any other place where a civilised composure was required. I again essentially see this is a problem of point (2). Their behaviour right now does not seem so damaging as to permit their ban from travelling, but only indicates their intrinsic state and attitudes given what is occuring in their country right now. If they were to physically escalate their actions, then on legal grounds the Polish government could pre-emptively stop an input of Israelis entering concentration camps. 4 Commercial abuses I don't think this is the crux of your argument. If rival and fair companies were established in Israel for sending students to Poland, I think you would still protest on the grounds of points 1-3. I have to agree that economic exploitation is not fair and deprives many poorer students of the opportunity of going. Travel costs however are high; taking the coach/train fairs, flights my research tells me that are around $400 as well as hotel prices. A 20% overprice is nothing but commercially exploiting students (a common international practice) but again (in that article you gave) occurred only with 9 travel bosses. Surely there are other travel industries that schools can communicate with to organise trips.	CON	19
19	S6af79c61-A3bda9ca6	Israeli School Trips to Auschwitz Should be Banned	Thanks for your quick response, Con. You have pretty much gone straight to rebuttals (instead of opening arguments) but oh well...it does not matter. **Argument Defence** -History. Here I didn't say that history was an excuse, I said that arguing about history/learning being a reason for these trips is an excuse; as political motivation is the real primary force behind them. They further add to the idea that Jews have enemies (in 21st century modern context) and encourage Israeli nationalism--there's no forgetting that these teenagers will be entering the Israeli Defence Forces when they become 18, regardless of what they actually want to do in life. So upon visiting a place that was established *because* of war, they'll then be going to assist another ongoing war. One that may be different but is nevertheless still a war with many nationalist elements--so, in this sense there is hypocrisy involved and an unchanged state of ignorance about history and what nationalism can actually do to people. In my opinion, it would be more productive for Israeli teenagers to participate in programs with Palestinian teenagers; to work on relations in this area and review their present-time situation. -Nationalism. This addresses some of the above points; but I would like to point out that while recognising that the words of Israel's leader are indeed nationalistic, and that there may be political motivations for visiting camps like Auschwitz, he still underplays it. He states that there's a difference between politicians using verbal rhetoric and undertaking actual action, but Hitler was enabled by his own verbal rhetoric (Mein Kampf, and of course all the speeches, propaganda, etc.) so what one says is extremely important. Netanyahu is Israel's leader, therefore he has great influence over people and each speech that he gives matters. Moreover, one could contend that he is more than capable of giving 'action' as well considering the ongoing conflict with Palestine. It is a different scenario to that of Nazi Germany, but, as I have already mentioned--nationalism is an undeniable much a part of it. It is ironic Jewish people hated having the Star of David forced upon their clothes in WW2, yet now you have countless Israeli flags at Auschwitz...specifically only there to claim an identity and a nation, it is certainly not as if they are holding or waving them in support of the Jews who really suffered and lost their lives at Auschwitz; it is a political statement. -Disrespect. Back to one of my previous points, if a Polish person went around waving their flag or if a Russian did the same with the former Soviet Union or Russian flag--I'm sure people would find it most odd, and of course, most likely disrespectful to Jews. So the same standards should apply. And again, disrespectful behaviour from Israeli teenagers towards other people who visit Auschwitz (and towards locals) is simply inexcusable, and recurrent enough to actually be a valid reason for banning; they approach the camp with entitlement and a belief that they have additional privileges, as I have mentioned in round two. That you actually have people in Israel recognising the problem (like Zeev Dagani, the school principle referenced) shows that it is a legitimate and quite significant issue. In regards to the practicality of such a ban and how it would be enforced, I would think that the best option would be for Israeli schools to do it themselves. The Polish government would not approach such a subject, or be allowed to enforce a ban like that. But Israeli school principles could actually decide to not pursue further trips or rather establish their own 'ban'/boycott , which would be a positive move in terms of cost on parents and of course in relation to nationalism. -Cost. Con again plays down this issue and attempts to justify the expensive costs *and* travel companies actually charging more than they should. He states that his research has only pointed to 400 dollars, but flights to Krakow (Poland) from Israel can be found for under 200 dollars, accommodation per student I think could be secured for 100 dollars...so the fact remains that families are being overcharged for what is 'supposed' to be an educational trip. But, it seems to me that in addition to politics the trips to Auschwitz have less to do with education and more to do with profit. Con also uses the term 'only 9' travel bosses, but it was certainly enough for a non-Israeli international news paper to report on...and certainly enough to attract criticism in Israel itself.	PRO	20
20	Sbe38f7bf-Aaeb16d7d	The death penalty should be abolished	I’d like to thank my opponent for taking the time to respond to my arguments. I would also like to make a correction: in my first contention, my source from the National Research Council corresponded to the wrong link. It was meant to be cited as source number 4, not source number 3. Contention 1: The death penalty is ineffective in deterring murder. Rebuttal A: The argument from authority is not in itself a logical fallacy; however, it can be used in a fallacious manner.[1] The argument is fallacious if the authority in question is not an expert on the subject. If the experts have sufficient expertise in the subject matter in question, are speaking about something within their area(s) of expertise, agree with other experts adequately, are not significantly biased, are experts within a legitimate discipline, and are identified properly, then the argument is not fallacious.[2] As the experts in question are Fellows in the American Society of Criminology (ASC), had won the ASC’s Sutherland Award (the highest aware by that organization to criminological theory), or were presidents of the ASC from 1997 to 2009[3], they have significant expertise, are speaking about something within their expertise, are experts within a legitimate discipline, are not significantly biased, and are identified properly. As over 88 percent of these experts agree with each other about the topic in question – the deterrence of the death penalty – they also agree with other experts adequately. As my argument meets all criteria for a proper argument from authority – that is, an argument from authority that is not fallacious, and is instead a strong inductive argument – it is not fallacious, and my contention still stands. Rebuttal B: While Con has charged me with committing the argument from authority fallacy in my first contention – a claim that I prove to be categorically false – I would assert here that he actually commits that fallacy. My opponent’s reasoning is as follows: A is an expert in subject S. A makes claim C about subject S. Therefore C is true. However, John Lott is an economist and political commentator, not a criminologist[6]. His field is economics, not criminology. As such, I would argue that John Lott does not have sufficient expertise in the field he is speaking to; does not agree with other experts adequately (as shown by the agreement of 88 percent of experts from the ASC that the death penalty does not deter crime); is not speaking in the correct field; and is significantly biased. Lott’s bias is shown in a defamation suit filed against him – which was found to have merit in its claim that Lott’s research was not peer-reviewed – a survey taken by Lott that could not be reproduced, and a general consensus by his colleagues that his use of econometrics as proof of causation was fundamentally flawed.[7] My opponent’s second “expert,” Wesley Lowe, is an assembly operator and fantasy author.[8] His field has nothing to do with the topic at hand. By contrast, I cite noted criminologists, statisticians, and peer-reviewed studies. Rebuttal C: I would note that the entire point of the National Research Council’s study was to show that studies that claim to show that the death penalty deters crime are fundamentally flawed. My opponent also attacks the American Society of Criminology’s reputation as biased without merit (its journal, Criminology, is regarded as the leading journal in the field[9]), and cites yet another economist – Naci Mocan – in a clear appeal to authority. Contention 2: The death penalty is unequally applied. I would like to note that my opponent deliberately changed the wording of my contentions. In my original argument, I did not claim that the death penalty was racist- merely that it was unequally applied. Rebuttal A: As such, Con has misrepresented my argument. My source stated that, in crimes where there was a white victim, the death penalty was applied much higher in crimes where there was not a white victim. I did not claim that blacks were executed more often than whites. Despite this, however, Con accepted that “it is indeed true that most people sentenced to death row are black.” My opponent’s statistics here are, as such, irrelevant: he has failed to address my argument. My contention still stands, and I would argue that my opponent has conceded the point here by accepting that the death penalty is unequally applied. Rebuttal B: Here, my opponent has perhaps made an honest mistake: he did not understand the meaning of my source. I will clarify: my source claimed that those charged with murder who had at least one appointed to their legal counsel – that is, a public defender – receive the death penalty at a higher rate than those with legal counsel on retainer- that is, those who can afford to buy their own lawyer, and not have one appointed to them by the state. Con has also failed to source his claim that “in modern times,” public defenders are generally as good as private lawyers. Again, my opponent has failed to address my argument: that the death penalty is unequally applied to those who cannot afford to have their own layer, and are forced to accept a public defender. My contention still stands. Contention 3: The death penalty is more expensive than life imprisonment. My opponent does not address my argument that the death penalty is more expensive than life imprisonment without parole. He claims that my sources only look into individual cases, and not the “overall picture,” but fails to provide the overall picture or refute my sources. Con’s statistic, then, is irrelevant: the cost of the death penalty is lower in cases that resulted in plea bargains, because the death penalty did not occur. When the death penalty was not appealed – that is, when the case was actually about the death penalty and not an avoidance of said penalty – in many cases its cost was higher than life imprisonment without parole (as per my sources). I will address my opponent’s argument that “the DP could cost almost nothing!” later on (space issues). C1: Deterrence I would argue that my opponent’s first two sources are out of date. Of the four he cited, two studies were conducted in a period when the death penalty was not even in effect: 1968 and 1974, respectively. Of the other two, I would argue that my source from the National Research Council renders them moot: both were published nearly nine years before the recent NRC study (published this year) which stated that studies claiming the death penalty to be a deterrent are fundamentally flawed. C2: Recidivism Murderers sentenced to life without parole, by definition, do not get out of jail- which is the entire point of life without parole. My opponent’s source stated that prisoners who were not sentenced to life without parole – as life without parole had not been established in Texas at the time – left prison and committed more murders. This is irrelevant, as they were not sentenced to life without parole. Running out of space. Conclusion: I have shown that my original contentions still stand, that my opponent has fallaciously appealed to authority, and that my opponent has misrepresented my arguments. My opponent's citations are unreliable and superceded by recent research. Con has even ceded one of my points. If a human life is the most valuable thing on Earth, as he says, and we can't change the past, then the death penalty promotes further bloodshed. I urge a vote for Pro. Sources: [1] http://www.nizkor.org... [2] http://www.nizkor.org... [3] http://www.deathpenaltyinfo.org... [4] http://www.merriam-webster.com... [5] http://www.merriam-webster.com...[1] [6] http://en.wikipedia.org... [7] http://en.wikipedia.org... [8] http://deathpenalty.procon.org... [9] http://www.asc41.com...	PRO	21
21	Sbe38f7bf-Ae773cdc8	The death penalty should be abolished	I accept. I assume the crime stated in the definitions are murder.	CON	22
22	S2b7532f8-A5d91566	Raped Women Should Be Euthanised	I accept the duel.	CON	23
