	id	conclusion	premises	stance	rank
0	S9db43fbd-A87496c6d	make all museums free of charge	Museums preserve and display our heritage and therefore should be accessible to all of the public free of charge	PRO	1
1	S9db43fbd-A307f9dea	make all museums free of charge	Free museums encourage attendance	PRO	2
2	S9db43fbd-Af4ffbd8c	Free museums encourage attendance	In the UK, Labour government policy resulted in some of the leading national museums ending admissions charges. Their policy was in response to evidence from the 1980s that suggested museums that started charging visitors ‘saw their numbers plummet on average by a third – and never fully recover’ (Barrie, 2001). Labour’s policy shift had the effect of increasing visitor numbers greatly, proving that free entry is beneficial in increasing public exposure to culture. This can be shown by the UK having the highest number of visitors to art museums of any country based upon The Art Newspaper’s figures for top 100 visited galleries in 2010.(The Art Newspaper, 2011) Other countries should follow this example in order to draw more people into their own national museums.	PRO	3
3	S9db43fbd-Aaec1a397	Free museums encourage attendance	Entry figures did increase when the UK scrapped admissions charges at some museums, but studies have found that this was not because more people actually visited the museums. Instead similar numbers of people as before chose to make more individual visits to the same museums, pushing up admissions numbers (Martin, 2003). In this way subsidising free admissions acts as a giveaway of public money to the privileged middle classes, who would in any case pay to attend the same institutions.	CON	4
4	S9db43fbd-Adbe701a7	make all museums free of charge	Museums are a crucial source of inspiration and education	PRO	5
5	S1c5a0821-A17c5fe48	Museums Should Be Free	Museums have a valuable role in preserving and transmitting a nation’s history and heritage to new g…	PRO	6
6	S1c5a0821-A81637167	Museums Should Be Free	In the UK, Labour government policy resulted in some of the leading national museums ending admissio…	PRO	7
7	S1c5a0821-A1f357b6f	Museums Should Be Free	Museums preserve and display our artistic, social, scientific and political heritage. Everyone shou…	PRO	8
8	S1c5a0821-Ae26a28ca	Museums Should Be Free	Museums are a crucial source of inspiration and education for our increasingly important creative in…	PRO	9
9	S1c5a0821-A5475446b	Museums Should Be Free	Television is not an adequate substitute for widely accessible museums. At a museum a visitor can c…	PRO	10
10	S9db43fbd-Afabe3ca8	Museums preserve and display our heritage and therefore should be accessible to all of the public free of charge	Museums preserve and display our artistic, social, scientific and political heritage. Everyone should have access to such important cultural resources as part of active citizenship, and because of the educational opportunities they offer to people of every age. Glenn Lowry, director of the Museum of Modern Art, claims ‘it’s almost a moral duty that museums should be free’ (Smith, 2006). If museums are not funded sufficiently by the government, they will be forced to charge for entry, and this will inevitably deter many potential visitors, especially the poor and those whose educational and cultural opportunities have already been limited. Visitors to the Victoria and Albert Museum in London declined by 13% after it started charging for admission. Free access is essential to provide freedom of cultural and educational opportunity (Garrett, 2001).	PRO	11
11	S9db43fbd-A36d8c45a	Museums preserve and display our heritage and therefore should be accessible to all of the public free of charge	Not everyone wishes to visit museums, which are essentially a form of entertainment for the middle classes and tourists. The majority of adults never visit a museum, preferring instead leisure pursuits such as football, the cinema or clubbing. As Philippe de Montebello has wondered, if the public can pay for other events, ‘what is it about art that shouldn’t be paid for?’ (Smith, 2006) Why should they have to pay for their chosen entertainment while subsidising the generally wealthier middle class through their taxes? Tourists pay no taxes here and so gain a free ride at the expense of domestic taxpayers. The state provides educational opportunities for all through free schooling, which often includes free museum trips. If free museum entry were considered a cultural right, shouldn’t the state make theatre tickets free as well?	CON	12
12	S22d6f2fd-A9ba2eb1d	The poor were not encouraged to visit museums after they were made free	When Labour scrapped the admission charges, the idea was to stop museums being middle class enclaves. They wanted poorer families to attend museums more frequently, and they believed it was best to scrap the admission charge. However, statistics have shown that whilst there has been an 87% increase in attendees, there has only been a 2% increase in the proportion of attendees who were from the poorest half of society. [[Richard Morrison, The Times, 22 September 2009]] This means that it is in fact the middle classes, who can afford the fees, who have benefitted from free admission. Surely, to stop these people easily capitalizing on the museums generosity, a more aggressive sales route to get people to pay the voluntary donation would be well placed.	PRO	13
13	S22d6f2fd-A6a32187f	Education should be free	Surely the greatest thing about Britain is it’s meritocratic standpoint on education. Everyone should enjoy education, regardless of their wealth. Museums and galleries are a source of knowledge for people who cannot afford books and the like. Even schools, whilst they may be free, the revision guides that aid people in their studies cost money. If we take away our free museums and start harassing people to make a ‘voluntary’ donation it will be yet another blow to Britain’s meritocracy.	PRO	14
14	S9db43fbd-A5afab673	Museums are a crucial source of inspiration and education	Museums are a crucial source of inspiration and education for our increasingly important creative industries (e.g. art, design, fashion, and architecture). As the Secretary of the National Union of Teachers described, ‘free access means that every child can benefit from the treasure chest…regardless of the depth of the parental pocket’ (Russell & Taylor, 2007). Free access is an investment in the future of both the education and creative sectors of the economy and therefore has long-term benefits in securing prosperity for the whole of society. Similarly, tourism is an important sector of our economy and many visitors will be deterred from visiting our country if they think it will be very expensive to visit its great museums and galleries. Tourists do contribute hugely to government revenues through the indirect taxes they pay and the jobs they generate, tourism is a £115bn industry,(BBC News, 2010) so free museum access to support the tourism industry is a sensible investment.	PRO	15
15	S9db43fbd-Ac9dcbdac	make all museums free of charge	State funding should be used elsewhere	CON	16
16	S22d6f2fd-A32d29bfe	Education should be free	Education is not free in the real world, face it. Even if state schools provide no fee for the parents and students, someone has the pay for the staff, for the equipment, for the maintenance, there are countless costs. Nothing in life is completely free! Everyone knows that. Besides, museums are much more than an educative visit. They provide an interactive experience as well, just look at modern museums such as the Science Museum in London, which everyone thoroughly enjoys. I would also like to point out that the opposition has failed to detect the difference between 'encourage' and 'harass'. Encourage does not suggest a violent or forced nature.	CON	17
17	S9db43fbd-A36d10511	make all museums free of charge	Museum charges can be offset by government funding	PRO	18
18	S1c5a0821-A1a86a7f	In the UK, Labour government policy resulted in some of the leading national museums ending admissio…	In the UK, Labour government policy resulted in some of the leading national museums ending admissions charges. This has had the effect of increasing visitor numbers greatly, proving that free entry is beneficial in increasing public exposure to culture. Other countries should follow this example in order to draw more people into their own national museums.	PRO	19
19	S9db43fbd-A4800b8c5	make all museums free of charge	Television is an adequate substitute for museum trips	CON	20
20	S9db43fbd-A9ea86bd6	make all museums free of charge	If state-funded, there is little incentive to increase numbers of visitors	CON	21
21	S9db43fbd-Aecb855a8	Museums are a crucial source of inspiration and education	Such potential and economic benefits are dubious and rely upon access to collections that are excellent in their content and in the way in which they are conserved and displayed. If museums are to be funded entirely out of public money, the pressure on any government’s budget from the demands of hospitals, schools, pensions, etc. will inevitably mean that museums will come a poor second, resulting in under-funding and poorer museums at the end of the process. This will not help our creative industries or tourism. It is excellence rather than the cost of visiting attractions which attracts tourists in any case; acquisition budgets have fallen in both London and Edinburgh over the last few years, our national galleries continually outbid by foreign rivals as they seek to keep their collections contemporary (Hunt, 2011). 	CON	22
22	S1c5a0821-Aafc2b250	Museums are a crucial source of inspiration and education for our increasingly important creative in…	Museums are a crucial source of inspiration and education for our increasingly important creative industries (e.g. art, design, fashion, and architecture). Free access is an investment in the future of this sector of the economy and therefore has long-term benefits in securing prosperity for the whole of society. Similarly, tourism is an important sector of our economy and many visitors will be deterred from visiting our country if they think it will be very expensive to visit its great museums and galleries. Tourists do contribute hugely to government revenues through the indirect taxes they pay and the jobs they generate, so free museum access to support the tourism industry is a sensible investment.	PRO	23
23	S1c5a0821-A45c7b0ea	Museums Should Be Free	Education is not just in schools, parents also have an important role in broadening their children’s…	PRO	24
24	S1c5a0821-A75e26c31	In the UK, Labour government policy resulted in some of the leading national museums ending admissio…	Entry figures did increase when the UK scrapped admissions charges at some museums, but studies have found that this was not because more people actually visited the museums. Instead similar numbers of people as before chose to make more individual visits to the same museums, pushing up admissions numbers. In this way subsidising free admissions acts as a giveaway of public money to the privileged middle classes, who would in any case pay to attend the same institutions.	CON	25
25	S1c5a0821-Ad81baf4e	Museums preserve and display our artistic, social, scientific and political heritage. Everyone shou…	Not everyone wishes to visit museums, which are essentially a form of entertainment for the middle classes and tourists. The majority of adults never visit a museum, preferring instead leisure pursuits such as football, the cinema or clubbing. Why should they have to pay for their chosen entertainment while subsidising the generally wealthier middle class through their taxes? Tourists pay no taxes here and so gain a free ride at the expense of domestic taxpayers. The state provides educational opportunities for all through free schooling, which often includes free museum trips. If free museum entry were considered a cultural right, shouldn’t the state make theatre tickets free as well?	CON	26
26	S1c5a0821-Af219dd8e	Museums preserve and display our artistic, social, scientific and political heritage. Everyone shou…	Museums preserve and display our artistic, social, scientific and political heritage. Everyone should have access to such important cultural resources as part of active citizenship, and because of the educational opportunities they offer to people of every age. If museums are not funded sufficiently by the government, they will be forced to charge for entry, and this will inevitably deter many potential visitors, especially the poor and those whose educational and cultural opportunities have already been limited. Visitors to the Victoria and Albert Museum in London declined by 15% after it started charging for admission. Free access is essential to provide freedom of cultural and educational opportunity.	PRO	27
27	S1c5a0821-A13c726ed	Museums are a crucial source of inspiration and education for our increasingly important creative in…	Such potential economic benefits are dubious and rely upon access to collections that are excellent in their content and in the way in which they are conserved and displayed. If museums are to be funded entirely out of public money, the pressure on any government’s budget from the demands of hospitals, schools, pensions, etc. will inevitably mean that museums will come a poor second, resulting in under-funding and poorer museums at the end of the process. This will not help our creative industries or tourism. It is excellence rather than the cost of visiting attractions which attracts tourists in any case.	CON	28
28	S1c5a0821-A1c8eafb	Museums have a valuable role in preserving and transmitting a nation’s history and heritage to new g…	If museums are entirely funded by the state, they will have little incentive to increase visitor numbers and to make their collections exciting and accessible for all. The need to attract paying customers concentrates the minds of museum and gallery directors upon the needs of the public and produces imaginative and popular exhibitions, as well as adding value through guided tours, lectures and tie-ins with television programmes. All of this ensures that more people, not less visit museums. In addition, if museums were made entirely reliant upon public funding, it is likely that money would be channelled to those institutions the government felt were most important, forcing smaller, local or more specialist museums to close. Nazi Germany also points to the dangers of allowing politicians control over interpretations of national identity and presentations of other cultures.	CON	29
29	S1c5a0821-Abcf126a3	Museums have a valuable role in preserving and transmitting a nation’s history and heritage to new g…	Museums have a valuable role in preserving and transmitting a nation’s history and heritage to new generations. Free access will encourage more people to find out about their country and help to promote feelings of national unity and identity, while promoting greater understanding and acceptance of foreign cultures.	PRO	30
30	S9eecda22-Ac9ec3636	return cultural property residing in museums to its place of origin	Many artefacts resting in western museums were acquired illegally. Western states have a duty to retain them.	PRO	31
31	S9db43fbd-A9318759c	Museum charges can be offset by government funding	The contributions of government funding have been shown to be capable of sustaining the costs of a museum, preventing those costs being passed on to the public in the form of admissions charges. The examples of the British Labour government funding national museums has been noted above. The National Museum of the American Indian in Washington was set up partially with government funding and partially with private funds, ensuring it has remained free since its opening in 2004 (Democracy Now, 2004). In 2011, China also announced that from 2012 all of its national museums would become publicly-funded and cease charging admissions fees (Zhu & Guo, 2011	PRO	32
32	S1c5a0821-A732ebd52	Television is not an adequate substitute for widely accessible museums. At a museum a visitor can c…	Television is not an adequate substitute for widely accessible museums. At a museum a visitor can choose what to see and for how long they wish to study it; television is a much more passive medium making the viewer dependent upon the interests and interpretation of the producer – it is likely to present sensationalist and controversial material in a bid for ratings, for example. Nor can a two-dimensional medium compare to viewing an object, even a flat painting, from many different angles, or even handling it, in a museum.	PRO	33
33	S9eecda22-Af7507cfb	Artefacts should be made accessible to the largest possible number of visitors	Art treasures should be accessible to the greatest number of people and to scholars, because only then can the educational potential of these artefacts be realised. In response to a question about whether museums have any social responsibility, Richard Armstrong, director at the Guggenheim, said “Absolutely, it began with the French Revolution. It is the more than a 200-year-old quest to have the most powerful cultural artefacts available to the greatest number of people. One could say it is the project of democratizing beauty”[1]. In practice this means retaining them in the great museums of the world. Further some of the world great museums, such as those in Britain and the Smithsonian in Washington D.C. are free of charge. [1] Boudin, Claudia, ‘Richard Armstrong on the Future of the Solomon R Guggenheim Foundation’, 4th November 2008. 	PRO	34
34	S9db43fbd-Acc966ddf	Museum charges can be offset by government funding	Museums charges cannot be offset by governments without using taxpayers money to subsidize the activities of only a portion of the population. As such, the actual costs of the museums are passed onto the population in the form of tax, rather than admissions charges. This way however, all of the population is charged, instead of purely those whom utilize museums. 	CON	35
35	S9db43fbd-A2c259f0d	State funding should be used elsewhere	Education is not just in schools, parents also have an important role in broadening their children’s cultural horizons through museum visits, among other forms of creative and intellectual stimulus. Children may have free entry at many museums, but parents are often charged high prices, deterring family visits, especially from the poor and from those families who do not prize education so highly. Again, this is an equal opportunity issue, being one of the reasons why middle-class children outperform their less-privileged peers academically.	CON	36
36	S97e5bdce-A64c3bac0	CMV: statues of bad people should not be destroyed	"I am of the opinion that statues of bad people, or people, who by today's moral standards, did bad things should not be destroyed and that people who do so should be charged with vandalism.
Too often do I see the reasoning that it is because the bad things happened to my ancestors I have the right to destroy this. Surely it is better to take the high ground and go through the proper channels?

I feel like I should add that I believe the monuments to these people should be taken down, but put into museums as a stark reminder of the evils people can commit, as those who who forget history are doomed to repeat it. 

Apologies for spelling/grammar or formatting. English isn't my first language."	PRO	37
37	S1c5a0821-A7290e013	Television is not an adequate substitute for widely accessible museums. At a museum a visitor can c…	Today television plays a much greater role in transmitting our cultural heritage and a sense of national identity. Usually free to the viewer, it reaches into almost every home, both rich and poor. Most countries recognise television’s power by giving broadcasters a duty to include cultural and educational programming. It is a far more effective way of reaching a mass public than expensively subsidising every museum on the off-chance that people will enthusiastically flock to them. Often, inspirational television programmes will increase the popularity of relevant museum exhibits – for example, Britain’s Natural History museum saw greatly increased attendances after the BBC’s Walking with Dinosaurs series.	CON	38
38	S9db43fbd-A6dfd7e6f	State funding should be used elsewhere	Clearly this is a question of balance, as the government cannot afford to fund every activity of possible value, especially given the social and economic costs of increased taxation. It is reasonable for governments to focus their attention upon schools and higher education in an attempt to provide more equality of opportunity. A MORI poll in 2002 found that though visitor numbers to museums had increased, the profile of a typical museum was still the same; the same people were simply going more often  (Martin, 2003, p.4). Funding the middle-class’ museum habit is not a worthwhile taxpayer cause. In any case, there are alternatives to state funding in the private sector – today many companies or private patrons sponsor museum exhibitions, acquisitions and new building work. This philanthropy is linked to a desire to make a difference, so it is unlikely to be strong when the government is seen as the source of all funding – it is most advanced in the USA for example, where government funding is very limited compared to other developed countries.	PRO	39
39	S9eecda22-A6e1f907f	return cultural property residing in museums to its place of origin	Artefacts should be made accessible to the largest possible number of visitors	CON	40
40	S9eecda22-A3780bf36	return cultural property residing in museums to its place of origin	Retaining artefacts is a relic of imperialist attitudes to non-occidental cultures	PRO	41
41	S9eecda22-Ad6ab814c	return cultural property residing in museums to its place of origin	Scholars will have better access to artefacts, and more opportunities for study and collaboration, if they are stored in the west	CON	42
42	S9eecda22-A8696a2ac	return cultural property residing in museums to its place of origin	In many cases, returning an artefact may prove to be unreasonably expensive	CON	43
43	S9eecda22-Ab9f79a7c	return cultural property residing in museums to its place of origin	The historical significance of artefacts extends beyond their culture of origin	CON	44
44	S9eecda22-Ac7be8e73	return cultural property residing in museums to its place of origin	Cultural artefacts are enriched when displayed in the context from which they originated	PRO	45
45	S9eecda22-Ac1b647f3	return cultural property residing in museums to its place of origin	Developing countries are able to guard and preserve their own cultural treasures	PRO	46
46	S9eecda22-A8568f1ae	Many artefacts resting in western museums were acquired illegally. Western states have a duty to retain them.	Artefacts were often acquired illegally. Elgin, for instance, appropriated the Parthenon Marbles from the Ottoman authorities who had invaded Greece and were arguably not the rightful owners of the site; he took advantage of political turmoil to pillage these ancient statues. Doubt has even been cast on the legality of the 1801 document which purportedly gave Elgin permission to remove the marbles[1]. The Axum obelisk was seized from Ethiopia by Mussolini as a trophy of war; fortunately the injustice of this action has since been recognised and the obelisk was restored to its rightful place in 2005[2]. UNESCO regulations initially required the return of artefacts removed from their country of origin after 1970,when the treaty came into force, but did not deal with any appropriations before this date due to deadlock in the negotiations for the framing of the convention that prevented inclusion of earlier removals. . However, the 1995 UNIDROIT Convention on Stolen or Illegally Exported Cultural Objects essentially removes the ambiguity about time limitations of UNESCO’s 1970 convention. Here, nations are required, in all cases, to return cultural artefacts to their countries of origin if those items were once stolen or removed illegally[3]. International law is thus on the side of returning artefacts.  [1]  Rudenstine, David, 'Did Elgin cheat at marbles?' Nation, Vol. 270, Issue 21, 25 May 2000. [2] BBC News, ‘Who should own historic artefacts?’, 26th April 2005,     [3] Odor, ‘The Return of Cultural Artefacts to Countries of Origin’.  	PRO	47
47	S56691e32-Abb279da2	Professional sports stadiums should be privately funded and owned.	"Today, Thanksgiving Day, November 26, 2009, let us return to the proposition: RESOLVED, that private investors, not the Minnesota taxpayer, should build a new stadium for the Minnesota Vikings. I oppose a tax subsidy to build a stadium for the following reasons: 1. The U.S. is in an economic recession which probably will persist for a few more years at least. The rising national rate of unemployment now exceeds 10%! http://employeeissues.com... 2. Minnesota's faces a serious budget deficit: ""The state faces a short-term problem — a projected budget deficit of $4.4 billion to $7.2 billion in the next two-year budget period — and a long-term predicament — slow economic growth combined with pressures to spend more for services for an aging population that will be less able and less willing to pay higher taxes. So the next governor is likely to face a fiscal crunch unlike any the state has seen."" http://www.twincities.com... In light of the facts established in 1 and 2 above, an appropriation of millions of dollars for a sports stadium seems unwise. 3. Sources in the article http://www.twincities.com... claim that the Vikings are losing money. Yet, ""Neither the Vikings nor the NFL would discuss the team's financial situation..."" I contend that the Vikings are profitable. To receive any consideration for a public subsidy, the Vikings should demonstrate a serious financial need. The Vikings' owners refuse to open their books. I argue that they want a new stadium not to become profitable, BUT SIMPLY TO EARN MORE PROFIT. The article also states: ""In the NFL, ticket and television revenue is divvied up among the league's 32 teams. The real way to make money is through stadiums — naming rights, premium seating, concessions, parking. That money stays home, but the Metrodome — with 100 luxury suites and no club seating — offers the Vikings little in this way."" Clearly, during this economic recession, to receive any consideration for a public subsidy, the Vikings should open their books to show their current profitability or unprofitability. 4. If private investors in LA can build a stadium to GET the Vikings or another professional sports franchise, then private investors in Minnesota can do likewise to KEEP the Vikings here. I quote from the article: ""The man behind the new effort is real estate developer Ed Roski. He's ready to break ground on a 70,000-seat stadium in Industry, Calif., with Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger's approval and a list of teams they expect will be interested in relocating."" ""The $800 million Los Angeles stadium is purported to be privately financed, though necessary infrastructure improvements are expected to be passed on to taxpayers. Schwarzenegger signed an environmental exception for the site to get the project off the ground. All it needs is a team. ""This is a viable project,"" NFL spokesman Brian McCarthy said."" 5. Two professional sports teams, The Minneapolis Lakers and the Minnesota North Stars, left the state in years past for greener pastures. The state endured. In due course, they were replaced by the Minnesota Timberwolves and the Minnesota Wild. If the Vikings do move to the greener pastures in LA or elsewhere, the state will endure. 6. The Vikings franchise is a privately owned business enterprise. Con errs when he fails to distinguish a private business enterprise from ESSENTIAL PUBLIC FUNCTIONS, some of which he mentions: ""I would like my opponent to take a look at other subsidizations that benefit the people. Firefighters, police force, public libraries, museums, public beaches, etc. Public beaches are an excellent example of an positive externality that should be subsidized."" I agree that these functions should be subsidized. These public services, and I would add public schools and public health programs, should be adequately funded (NO BUDGET REDUCTIONS; NO EMPLOYEE LAYOFFS) - BEFORE A SUBSIDY FOR A SPORTS TEAM IS EVEN CONSIDERED. In a serious economic recession, it is self-evident that public money should be appropriated for essential public services, not to subsidize private profit-making enterprises. Finally, I will simply note that Con has not really addressed my criticism of his use of the concepts of positive and negative externalities. My criticism basically is that the concepts are unlimited. In other words, Con has not articulated any limits on either public subsidies or public taxes. In closing, I respectfully the voters to carefully read the following article before voting. http://www.twincities.com... The choice seems to be tax money going to either (a) the wealthy owners of the Vikings or to (b) cops, firefighters, teachers, librarians, etc. A consideration of prudence in public expenditures should guide your vote in this debate. I love watching the Vikings and would hate to see them leave Minnesota. But the history of professional sports in Minnesota suggests that we can survive their departure, if, indeed, that does happen. Rest assured though, that I'll root for Bret and the boys wherever they play. Tom"	PRO	48
48	S56691e32-A677489ca	Professional sports stadiums should be privately funded and owned.	"I would like to thank my opponent for his excellent argument and hope to have a great debate with him. I would also like to thank him for structuring his debate in such an organized manner as it makes it easier and provides a much better debate. Public investors should partially pay for a new stadium for their pro sports team. To many this question seems absolutely baffling why any public money should be thrown after private. Normally I'm very against subsidies. However when the thing receiving the subsidy is a positive externality my attitude changes completely. DEFINTIONS Externality - An effect on a third party (usually the community as a whole) that is not directly involved in business transaction. Positive - something that benefits the community as a whole Negative - something that hurts the community as a whole Let me give you an example. Suppose you have a fireworks display at your local town. And let's suppose that your town only charges people who pay to sit in a grassy field nearby. So naturally more than half the town decides to sit a little farther away on hill where they have to pay no money to see the display. These are called free riders because they are essentially receiving a good for which they do not pay for. In these type of situations it is often impossible to make the free riders pay up unless you tax them. In this analogy the people with a front row seat are the ones paying. The businesses that receive more customers due to the increased amount of people in the city (which creates more jobs for the citizens) and the citizens who have higher property value due to the increased jobs in their city and its higher desirability from the stadium are the free riders, the stadium is the fireworks display. Essentially the NFL does a study of how much economic benefit their stadium produces, presents it to the congressmen, asks for 2/3 of that value or 1/2 giving the citizens a 50% value and the lawmakers decide that it benefits the citizens as a whole so they pay for it. So as you can see it benefits the citizens economically to pay for a certain percentage of it because of the economic impact it produces. Without the citizens paying for a certain amount of it, the stadium could easily move to another city that would better appreciate its economic impact. When asked why public funds should finance private facilities for professional sports, supporters cite economics. Football Northwest, Allen's group advocating a new stadium, notes, ""Even if you aren't a football fan, the high level of economic activity generated by the Seahawks does affect you. Because of the revenues generated by professional football--$5.4 million are contributed to the local and state general funds--everyone benefits. The Seahawks' total annual economic impact in Washington state is $129 million. In King County alone, the Seahawks generate $103 million per year."" SOURCES: http://www.washington.edu... This is why the taxpayer should partially pay for the the new stadium, because doing so economically benefits them beyond the cost of the stadium."	CON	49
49	S9eecda22-A713f1b0a	Many artefacts resting in western museums were acquired illegally. Western states have a duty to retain them.	Although some treasures may have been acquired illegally, the evidence for this is often ambiguous. Experts agree that Greece could mount no court case because Elgin was granted permission by what was then Greece's ruling government. Lord Elgin’s bribes were the common way of facilitating any business in the Ottoman Empire, and do not undermine Britain’s solid legal claim to the Parthenon marbles, based upon a written contract made by the internationally-recognised authorities in Athens at the time. The veracity of the document can never be fully dismissed as it is a translation. And while some Benin bronzes were undoubtedly looted, other “colonial trophies” were freely sold to the imperial powers, indeed some were made specifically for the European market.	CON	50
50	S56691e32-A84957fb5	Professional sports stadiums should be privately funded and owned.	"I would like to thank for Pro's excellent rebuttal of my contentions. 1. Pro's entire argument is based upon the assumption that government influence is malicious and isn't in the best interest of the people. An argument which he provides no support for. I would like my opponent to take a look at other subsidizations that benefit the people. Firefighters, police force, public libraries, museums, public beaches, etc. Public beaches are an excellent example of an positive externality that should be subsidized. Generally for the tourism it brings in. In economics it is a basic theory to subsidize the externalities that benefit us. And tax the externalities that hurt us. My opponent also operates on the false assumption that there are tons of private and non profit industries that are a tourist attraction that attract people to the city and raise property value. ""The NFL has the highest per-game attendance of any domestic professional sports league in the world, drawing over 67,000 spectators per game for each of its two most recently completed seasons, 2006 and 2007"" SOURCE: http://www.nfl.com... My opponent also brought up Drug Rehabilitation programs as an example that shouldn't be subsidized. However he ignores the logic of the situation by easily dismissing it. I personally believe that the people should decide how to spend their tax money, thus, I'm sure, if you took a poll about whether participants would choose Option A and pay a small percentage of their tax dollars to support a drug rehab clinic, or Option B would rather pay a much larger amount of their taxes to fund unemployment, welfare, law enforcement, etc. Most citizens would choose the lower cost option of opening a clinic. Furthermore some of them might not like the surprise bonuses payments of Option B when they are woken up in the middle of the night by a drug-crazed lunatics threatening their lives in exchange for drug money. Pro's arguments to my contention provides no evidence of industries that would suddenly warrant tax dollars because of their tourism, property value, and economic impact. Furthermore he used ill-reasoned logic and shoddy examples of why my contention is unfeasible. 2. Pros refutation of my sources are misleading at best. To start out my source was from a site that had a compilation of articles all written and researched by different people. Pro visited the site, choose different articles that supported his opinion, and then is using them in a weak attempt to invalidate my evidence by stating that they came from the same source. No, they aren't from the same source, they are different articles, just the same website that collects these articles. Furthermore, Pros entire argument is simply a collection of quotations from other people. Quotes that he doesn't bother to explain or arrange in a coherent fashion. Instead of using the quotes to supplement his argument, pro uses the quotes as his entire argument. In fact, my opponent uses more room in his debate for quotations then he does for his own original sentences. In a basic sense my argument is this: The taxpayers (mainly the residents and businesses located in the city where the stadium exists) should partially fund the stadium to the point where they are receiving a benefit out of the bargain. The economic impacts of the sports stadium can be measured, my opponent believes the same as I do, as he cited multiple times, the value of sports stadiums from almost 17 years ago. An example being: ""Looking at new money only, the economic impact of teams such as the Seahawks and the Mariners begins to shrink. In 1995, the football team's out-of-state revenue generated $66.7 million in local economic activity. The impact of that money amounted to 1,388 jobs in King County. The Mariners' out-of-state funds generated only $42.9 million and 427 jobs according to a >>>>1993 study<<<<<<"" Since we both agree the benefits can be determined, then is it not beneficial for the taxpayers to pay in part for the benefit they are receiving both in terms of jobs, business profits, and property values? Many other externalities are funded (such as beaches) which have similarities in terms of their effect on business, property, jobs and tourism. My opponent is essentially advocating that the taxpayer of Minnesota cut off their nose to spite their face, and let another state reap the tourism simply because government is getting involved. I would like to thank my opponent for his excellent rebuttal of my contention, and eagerly await another rebuttal of this contention."	CON	51
51	S56691e32-Ae576a8cb	Professional sports stadiums should be privately funded and owned.	"To start off I would like to thank my opponent for this excellent debate. My opponent in his final round, instead of bolstering his arguments against my contention in Round 1 and 2, drops all arguments and brings up entirely new points. May I remind my opponent that the final round should be a round of summation and furthering of arguments from previous rounds. It is poor etiquette to bring up entirely new points in the final round. 1. Yes the US is in a recession, yes the unemployment rate exceeds 10%. Which is all the more reason not to eliminate nearly a thousand more jobs, and eliminate tourism which is a stimulant for the economy. Tax money does not come from those who are unemployed or are having a rought time, rather it comes from those businesses and people who are succeeding in these dark times. Furthermore if the entire economy is doing bad, then other locations will offer those stadiums less. 2. A budget deficit is not a sufficient reason to spend taxpayer money on something that benefits the taxpayers with more than they spend. 3. The Viking's personal situation as a football team does not exclude them from being a positive externality. I completely agree with you that the motive is to earn more profit and not because they are in dire straits financially. However this doesn't exclude them from being considered a positive externality. If they produce for example 500 dollars for taxpayers in terms of higher property values, business increase and jobs, etc. Then they have 500 dollars worth of bargaining power. The taxpayers of Minnesota can send 250 dollars to keep them there and earn 250 extra in economic benefits. For whatever motive of the sports team, it is economically beneficial to fund a sports stadium with public money. 4. Tourism. LA has plenty of it without the stadium and thus does not need it. However Minnesota has substantially less tourism and would benefit much more greatly than LA would. Furthermore California is much more highly populated than Minnesota. With questions and doubts about the possibility of the Vikings franchise (would like to thank my opponent for his citations), no wise investor would put forth his own money on the line. In LA, its a sure thing. 5. ""The state endured."" The argument isn't about whether the state will survive, but rather will it profit. This debate is a question of what is best for the state, not whether the state would survive without it. I think you'll agree there's a very substantial difference from endure and thrive. 6. Public beaches although open to the public, are usually a private franchise. Beaches neither serve essential functions nor are publicly owned, yet they receive funding from the people. ""In other words, Con has not articulated any limits on either public subsidies or public taxes."" My opponent himself in his R2 arguments affirmed the fact that the economic benefits can be measured. This is a point I agree upon. If they can be measured then we can determine a dollar amount of benefit. We should spend subsidize something to the point where it benefits the citizen. When it stops benefiting the citizen, you stop subsidizing. If it hurts the citizen you tax it. You stop taxing it when it stops hurting the citizen. These are the limits. My opponents entire argument has been from the standpoint that even if it is beneficial to subsidize something we shouldn't do it because the industry is private and makes a profit. I am of a different opinion. I believe anything that is beneficial should be subsidized. If business increases my property value, provides me a job, or makes my business more profitable, I am willing to spend money to keep that positive side effect in occurrence. Is it great if I can get that side effect for free. Absolutely. Do I believe the citizens of Minnesota should try to get it free (paid by private investors) absolutely I do. However if there is no alternative, no private investors step up to the plate, then I am in favor of having the taxpayers partially fund it (paying the lowest amount possible) to get a beneficial side affect that produces more dollars than it costs. My opponent see to have a fear of government, and with good reason, however if done properly, the citizens of Minesota can thrive instead of just endure. I would like to thank my opponent for this excellent debate and admit that he was a very formidable opponent."	CON	52
52	S9eecda22-Ac36cfda6	Artefacts should be made accessible to the largest possible number of visitors	Many people from an artefact's country of origin never get to see them because they cannot afford to travel to a foreign museum; as such the cost of access to that museum is a very small part of the total cost. These artefacts are part of their cultural history and national identity, and it is important that local people are given the opportunity to see them. It is not all about quantity of visitors; those closest to the artefacts have the greatest right to see them. For others, it should be a privilege not a right.	CON	53
53	S97e5bdce-A379ccd57	CMV: statues of bad people should not be destroyed	"My pleasure.  

I have always been of the mind that we should split the difference on this - when a statue is slated for removal, there should be an open period (say, 60 days) for any private group or museum to submit a request for said statue.  Should the group be deemed capable of housing the statue properly, they can claim it and _at their expense_ transfer the statue to their own care.  If no group makes a claim, or no group is deemed capable of housing the statue properly, they are disposed of."	CON	54
54	S97e5bdce-A621bdf0e	CMV: statues of bad people should not be destroyed	"I mean as much as the statues itself are means of propaganda (showing a person to be larger than live and basically ""controlling the public square with their presence"" even if they aren't present, taking them down and kicking the crap out of them can be cathartic and sending a strong emotional signal. Like individual people taking everything that makes for a hammer and tearing down the Berlin Wall. 

Or do you think that taking down the statue of Saddam Hussein was crucially important? It did make for some powerful imagery though. To remove statues often is a political act and the question who's in charge now and who's doctrines should be displayed in the public square. And so erecting similar to destroying them is more than pure vandalism. Yes erecting statues should also be seen as vandalism."	CON	55
55	S6d0dfbc1-Aa40644	McConnell will move to acquit Trump if he's impeached, not merely dismiss charges, 2 Republican senators say	Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell is expected to hold a final vote to acquit President Donald Trump, should he be impeached, when a majority of senators believe his trial has run its course instead of holding a vote on dismissing the articles of impeachment, two Republican senators told CNN on Wednesday. Republicans want to have a vote on acquittal -- to clear the President of the charges against him -- not simply rely on a 51-vote threshold procedural motion to dismiss the hotly disputed case. The Constitution mandates 67 votes...	PRO	56
56	S56691e32-Ab93c76a5	Professional sports stadiums should be privately funded and owned.	Resolved, that private investors, not the Minnesota taxpayer, should build a new stadium for the Minnesota Vikings. Generally, I oppose public subsidies for private businesses. Assumption: The Minnesota Vikings franchise is a profitable enterprise. Contention: Currently, the Minnesota taxpayer cannot afford to provide the Vikings with a new stadium. But a group of Minnesota private investors could do so. Thus, the private investor, not the Minnesota taxpayer, should determine whether the Vikings stay in Minnesota or move to LA. For supporting facts, I rely on the following article: http://www.twincities.com... You should make a copy of the article before access requires the payment of a fee.	PRO	57
57	S6d0dfbc1-Ac9c84921	GOP Senators: McConnell Will Move to Acquit Trump, Not Dismiss Charges	"Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell is expected to allow an impeachment trial against President Donald Trump to go ahead, calling a vote to acquit him after proceedings have run their course rather than seeking to immediately dismiss the charges, some Republican senators say. Acquittal, rather than a procedural vote to dismiss the articles of impeachment, would definitively clear the president of the charges raised against him by Democrats and expected to be approved by the House of Representatives. It would ""make more sense"" to vote on the articles of impeachment..."	PRO	58
58	S56691e32-Aa55d4f7d	Professional sports stadiums should be privately funded and owned.	"Thanks, Con, for joining me in debate. I'll now wipe the tears from my eyes (due to my fear that the Vikings, like the Lakers and North Stars, may leave Minnesota for greener pastures) and I'll argue: 1. Con's criterions (a 'positive externality' or a 'negative externality') for granting public subsidies and imposing taxes are unlimited and, therefore, will increase political intrigue and corruption. If Con's criterions were adopted as public policy by the State of Minnesota, the city of St. Paul's population would double overnight. Lobbyists for all types of financial enterprises (private profit seeking businesses, non-profits, etc.) would, like a plague of locusts, descend upon the Capital to beg for subsidies or tax increases from their favorite politicians. Enterprises would seek subsidies or tax increases or decreases to gain a favorable competitive advantage. Political intrigue and corruption would increase dramatically. Regarding my claim that Con's criterions are unlimited, consider this example of a 'positive externality' from today's Parade Magazine: "" Why should tax dollars go toward helping addicts whose own decisions have gotten them into trouble? rs are already going to the problems that addicts cause -- whether it's homelessness, the record number of inmates we have locked up in this country, the toll drunk driving takes on innocent people, or other socioeconomic problems."" http://www.parade.com... Regarding the ""external problems"" - chemical addictions - consider the following illustrative situations: To battle chemical addictions, the Hazelden Foundation could seek a public subsidy to build another facility. And it could threaten to leave Minnesota if the politicians refused the subsidy. What politician would dare to refuse Hazelden's request? Of course, competing treatment facilities would also expect to receive a subsidy comparable to whatever Hazelden received. There is no limit to the number of potential subsidy requests for the purpose of battling addictions. To further battle chemical addictions, laws could be enacted which would establish a new industry - ""addiction bounty hunters."" The bounty hunters would cruise the state looking for intoxicated people to admit to the new treatment facilities which resulted from the public subsidies granted above. Why, the public subsidy of addiction bounty hunters would also attack the current problem of unemployment. And, of course, there are other addictions that could be battled through public subsidies and increased taxes. Why should public policy privilege only chemical addictions 1 Con's criterions are bad public policy because they are unlimited and their adoption would result in increased political intrigue and corruption. 2. Con's cited articles provide very little support for his argument: In fact, the experts quoted are more critical, than supportive, of public subsidies for sports stadiums: Prof. Bill Beyers, an expert on economic impact studies: ""To warm up his audience, Beyers held a ""pop"" quiz. ""I'm going to give you three different percentages for the economic impact of sports on the local economy, and you raise your hand for what you think is the right answer,"" he said. ""Ten percent."" (A good number of hands rise.) ""One percent."" (A majority of hands are held high.) ""One-tenth of one percent."" (Hardly a hand in the air.) ""The correct answer is 1/10th of one percent, and even that is probably overstating it,"" Beyers told the crowd."" http://www.washington.edu... Richard Conway, co-author with Beyers on four economic impact studies: ""Looking at new money only, the economic impact of teams such as the Seahawks and the Mariners begins to shrink. In 1995, the football team's out-of-state revenue generated $66.7 million in local economic activity. The impact of that money amounted to 1,388 jobs in King County. The Mariners' out-of-state funds generated only $42.9 million and 427 jobs according to a 1993 study Beyers and Conway did for the team. ""Compare this to Boeing, a corporation with 99 percent of its impact in new money,"" says Beyers. ""It's new money generates $25 billion in direct economic activity. The scale is totally different."" Research institutions such as the UW and Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center foster more economic growth too, since they bring in hundreds of millions in new money, Beyers adds, far more than professional sports (see Economic Impact Chart)."" ""Looking at the sports jobs that are created with new money, there is another hitch. Almost none of these positions are ""family wage"" jobs. ""A major portion are day-of-game and relatively low wage jobs,"" Conway says, such as parking attendants and food vendors. ""It's not a lot of job generation,"" Beyers says. There are approximately one million jobs in King County. ""You don't make public decisions about having enterprises like this in our midst on the basis of job creation."" http://www.washington.edu... Professor Richard Zerbe - quality of life considerations -: ""You have to remember that the Mariners, Sonics and Seahawks are not just enjoyed by the fans in the stadium,"" adds Conway. ""There are hundreds of thousands of fans who watch them on TV and listen to them on the radio. Think about that enjoyment. That has a value."" But measuring that value is close to impossible. Public Affairs Professor Richard Zerbe, an economist who does cost benefit studies, says his field defines a public good as an element the normal market system can't value. Classic examples of public goods are pollution control and national defense, he explains."" http://www.washington.edu... Political Scientist Bryan Jones: "" Political Scientist Bryan Jones is skeptical about pro sports and the economy. For many years he has studied plant siting decisions by the automotive industry, and he says cities that outbid others for new plants never reached the economic goals they promised. ""No one has ever found one economic impact statement that matches the reality once the plant is open. The estimate of tax revenue was always overblown,"" he states. Jones sees many similarities in the pressures sports franchises place on communities."" http://www.washington.edu... I respectfully contend that Con's argument from a ""positive externality"" is weak at best. __________________________ 1. "" The term ""addiction"" is used in many contexts to describe an obsession, compulsion, or excessive psychological dependence, such as: drug addiction (e.g. alcoholism, nicotine addiction), problem gambling, crime, money, work addiction, compulsive overeating, credit card addiction, compulsive debting, computer addiction, video game addiction, pornography addiction, television addiction, etc"" http://en.wikipedia.org..."	PRO	59
59	S97e5bdce-Aae3fa2b	CMV: statues of bad people should not be destroyed	"&gt; Surely it is better to take the high ground and go through the proper channels?

This statement is always said when people protest and time and time again it seems that is ineffective. Social change necessarily comes with discomfort. If people were only ever allowed to behave in ways that made you comfortable nothing would ever be changed."	CON	60
60	S97e5bdce-A307237ed	CMV: statues of bad people should not be destroyed	"For example, many of the Confederate statues in the US were built as late as the 60's or 70's. They're further from the actual Civil War than a statue of Hitler built today would be.

In addition, *so many* of them have been built so far off from the Civil War itself that the act of vandalizing such a statue is more historically significant than its construction or existence. A riot in which a statue is damaged might be far more significant than its existence in the first place. In that case, altering the damage to the statue is doing more to ""erase history"" than removing it would be.

Also, check out the rules for awarding deltas if I've given you a new perspective."	CON	61
61	Sdbe26441-A8b4d1384	Jeff Sessions to fight racism charges at Senate hearing: ‘We will do it right’	Sen. Jeff Sessions will fight back against the assault on his character Tuesday, defending his reputations against painful accusations that he is a racist, sexist and homophobe at a Senate hearing on his nomination to become attorney general.	PRO	62
