	id	conclusion	premises	stance	rank
0	Sde791ad8-A3072f8a4	Video Games	"Video games foster the mindset that allows creativity to grow."" was a quote once said by Nolan Bushnell that really represents the true reasons for why video games are good. That doesn""t solve the debate but it helps a lot. There is a lot of things that could counter-argue that but in this argument, you will learn about why I believe that video games are good and have many positive effects that outweigh the negatives, along with many good reasons. Those reasons are that they help with mental struggles, they give you your basic mental skills, and help with your creativity. My first reason is that it helps with basic mental struggles such as dyslexia. For example, in an article by BBC, it states that in a study on 4 ten-year-olds they played constant video games for 12 hours and in the end had better cognitive skills. This is important because it is real-life proof of kids using their video games to their advantage and help them with their struggle. Another piece of evidence is that in a study by Dartmouth University for Apa.org it states that kids with dyslexia had shown improvement in their reading abilities after using computer programs for a little while. This is important because this is conclusive evidence of people with basic mental struggles using video games to help them and showing signs of improvement, not disimprovement. In addition, my second reason is that they help you develop your basic mental skills. For Example, in an article RaiseSmartKid, it states that if your children play video games it will help them develop their basic problem-solving skills. This is important because those are skills you need to have in order to succeed in life. Another example would be that in a study done for the same article as above it states that video games also help develop the basics for hand-eye coordination and your basic motor skills. This is important because like I said above those are skills you need to succeed. My third and final reason is that video games help with your creativity. This might not seem important but it is. In an article by Michigan State University it found that out of 500 twelve year olds, the ones who played video games had more creativity then the ones who didn""t. This is key because in our everyday lives we have to be creative for like writing stories but stories get bland if you aren""t creatively so that is why this is key. Another piece of evidence is that in a study by USAToday it found that kids who play video games tend to be more creative then ones who don""t. This is important because if people have done a lot of research and found that video games do help then it is true and video games are good for creativity. Now yes you could argue that video games are bad because they can teach you what some bad things might be like maybe a drug or something and then you go tell your friend that and it blows up. That is bad but there are so many more positives like how they help you learn which just is one of the many reasons that video games are good. In summary that is just some of the many reasons why video games are good and why I believe that video games are good and have many positive effects that outweigh the negatives. There are many more reasons I could""ve talked about but I feel that those reasons I gave you are some of the best reasons for why video games are good."	CON	1
1	Sde791ad8-A3072f8a4	Video Games	"""Video games foster the mindset that allows creativity to grow."" was a quote once said by Nolan Bushnell that really represents the true reasons for why video games are good. That doesn""t solve the debate but it helps a lot. There is a lot of things that could counter-argue that but in this argument, you will learn about why I believe that video games are good and have many positive effects that outweigh the negatives, along with many good reasons. Those reasons are that they help with mental struggles, they give you your basic mental skills, and help with your creativity. My first reason is that it helps with basic mental struggles such as dyslexia. For example, in an article by BBC, it states that in a study on 4 ten-year-olds they played constant video games for 12 hours and in the end had better cognitive skills. This is important because it is real-life proof of kids using their video games to their advantage and help them with their struggle. Another piece of evidence is that in a study by Dartmouth University for Apa.org it states that kids with dyslexia had shown improvement in their reading abilities after using computer programs for a little while. This is important because this is conclusive evidence of people with basic mental struggles using video games to help them and showing signs of improvement, not disimprovement. In addition, my second reason is that they help you develop your basic mental skills. For Example, in an article RaiseSmartKid, it states that if your children play video games it will help them develop their basic problem-solving skills. This is important because those are skills you need to have in order to succeed in life. Another example would be that in a study done for the same article as above it states that video games also help develop the basics for hand-eye coordination and your basic motor skills. This is important because like I said above those are skills you need to succeed. My third and final reason is that video games help with your creativity. This might not seem important but it is. In an article by Michigan State University it found that out of 500 twelve year olds, the ones who played video games had more creativity then the ones who didn""t. This is key because in our everyday lives we have to be creative for like writing stories but stories get bland if you aren""t creatively so that is why this is key. Another piece of evidence is that in a study by USAToday it found that kids who play video games tend to be more creative then ones who don""t. This is important because if people have done a lot of research and found that video games do help then it is true and video games are good for creativity. Now yes you could argue that video games are bad because they can teach you what some bad things might be like maybe a drug or something and then you go tell your friend that and it blows up. That is bad but there are so many more positives like how they help you learn which just is one of the many reasons that video games are good. In summary that is just some of the many reasons why video games are good and why I believe that video games are good and have many positive effects that outweigh the negatives. There are many more reasons I could""ve talked about but I feel that those reasons I gave you are some of the best reasons for why video games are good."	PRO	2
2	Sde791ad8-A8138f402	Video Games	"""Video games foster the mindset that allows creativity to grow."" was a quote once said by Nolan Bushnell that really represents the true reasons of why video games are good. That doesn""t solve the debate but it helps a lot. There is a lot of things that could counter-argue that but in this argument, you will learn about why I believe that video games are good and have many positive effects that outweigh the negatives, along with many good reasons. Those reasons are that they help with mental struggles, they give you your basic mental skills, and help with your creativity. My first reason is that it helps with basic mental struggles such as dyslexia. For example, in an article by BBC, it states that in a study on 4 ten year olds they played constant video games for 12 hours and in the end had better cognitive skills. This is important because it is real-life proof of kids using their video games to their advantage and help them with their struggle. Another piece of evidence is that in a study by Dartmouth University for Apa.org it states that kids with dyslexia had shown improvement in their reading abilities after using computer programs for a little while. This is important because this is conclusive evidence of people with basic mental struggles using video games to help them and showing signs of improvement, not disimprovement. In addition, my second reason is that they help you develop your basic mental skills. For Example, in an article RaiseSmartKid, it states that if your children play video games it will help them develop their basic problem-solving skills. This is important because those are skills you need to have in order to succeed in life. Another example would be that in a study done for the same article as above it states that video games also help develop the basics for hand-eye coordination and your basic motor skills. This is important because like I said above those are skills you need to succeed. My third and final reason is that video games help with your creativity. This might not seem important but it is. In an article by Michigan State University it found that out of 500 twelve year olds, the ones who played video games had more creativity then the ones who didn""t. This is key because in our everyday lives we have to be creative for like writing stories but stories get bland if you aren""t creatively so that is why this is key. Another piece of evidence is that in a study by USAToday it found that kids who play video games tend to be more creative then ones who don""t. This is important because if people have done a lot of research and found that video games do help then it is true and video games are good for creativity. Now yes you could argue that video games are bad because they can teach you what some bad things might be like maybe a drug or something and then you go tell your friend that and it blows up. That is bad but there are so many more positives like how they help you learn which just is one of the many reasons that video games are good. In summary that is just some of the many reasons why video games are good and why I believe that video games are good and have many positive effects that outweigh the negatives. There are many more reasons I could""ve talked about but I feel that those reasons I gave you are some of the best reasons about why video games are good."	PRO	3
3	Sde791ad8-A3072f8a4	Video Games	"""Video games foster the mindset that allows creativity to grow."" was a quote once said by Nolan Bushnell that really represents the true reasons for why video games are good. That doesn""t solve the debate but it helps a lot. There is a lot of things that could counter-argue that but in this argument, you will learn about why I believe that video games are good and have many positive effects that outweigh the negatives, along with many good reasons. Those reasons are that they help with mental struggles, they give you your basic mental skills, and help with your creativity. My first reason is that it helps with basic mental struggles such as dyslexia. For example, in an article by BBC, it states that in a study on 4 ten-year-olds they played constant video games for 12 hours and in the end had better cognitive skills. This is important because it is real-life proof of kids using their video games to their advantage and help them with their struggle. Another piece of evidence is that in a study by Dartmouth University for Apa.org it states that kids with dyslexia had shown improvement in their reading abilities after using computer programs for a little while. This is important because this is conclusive evidence of people with basic mental struggles using video games to help them and showing signs of improvement, not disimprovement. In addition, my second reason is that they help you develop your basic mental skills. For Example, in an article RaiseSmartKid, it states that if your children play video games it will help them develop their basic problem-solving skills. This is important because those are skills you need to have in order to succeed in life. Another example would be that in a study done for the same article as above it states that video games also help develop the basics for hand-eye coordination and your basic motor skills. This is important because like I said above those are skills you need to succeed. My third and final reason is that video games help with your creativity. This might not seem important but it is. In an article by Michigan State University it found that out of 500 twelve year olds, the ones who played video games had more creativity then the ones who didn""t. This is key because in our everyday lives we have to be creative for like writing stories but stories get bland if you aren""t creatively so that is why this is key. Another piece of evidence is that in a study by USAToday it found that kids who play video games tend to be more creative then ones who don""t. This is important because if people have done a lot of research and found that video games do help then it is true and video games are good for creativity. Now yes you could argue that video games are bad because they can teach you what some bad things might be like maybe a drug or something and then you go tell your friend that and it blows up. That is bad but there are so many more positives like how they help you learn which just is one of the many reasons that video games are good. In summary that is just some of the many reasons why video games are good and why I believe that video games are good and have many positive effects that outweigh the negatives. There are many more reasons I could""ve talked about but I feel that those reasons I gave you are some of the best reasons for why video games are good."	PRO	4
4	Sde7919e0-A4e2d7b9c	Video Games	Video games might not be on the same level as some stuff when it comes to desensitizing people to violence but video games are deffidentally brain washing many young men into doing horrible things when they become soldiers and to off to Iraq or Afghanistan. Video games might not he telling people to kill someone the way greed, anger, money, passion or fear does but it's a part of our problem. Video games make young people to used to violent images.	CON	5
5	S6706fda2-A2ed94bb3	Video games	Is it safe to purchase video games online? I wish to purchase some new trending video games for my brother. Some of my friends suggested me to check here at Steam. Instant-gaming (https://www. Instant-gaming. Com/en), BestBuy, Online stores tat offer great deals on the bulk purchase of video games. Please give your opinion about the online purchasing of video games.	CON	6
6	Sde7919e0-A7f0a981e	Video Games	I know that most video game players are good people who wouldn't actually hurt anyone else and I know that video games just games. Also all my cousins and most of my friends play video games and they're all good people. Video games and tv shows or movies that have lots of violence desensitize people to violence. When they see pictures of actual dead people on the news they're less likely to be grossed out or saddened by it. That doesn't mean people who play video games don't have emotions or are psychopaths or that they never get saddened by images of actual dead people but they are less likely to. Also we shouldn't premodern violence. Violence is only good for self defense. BTW I also play slender man. It's pretty scary and it's really fun but it's not that bloody or violent.	CON	7
7	Sde7919ff-A2641e783	Video Games	Um... Ok. The topic will be; Should Video Games be considered a normal media? Let me explain. Have you ever noticed that if you play video games in public, it's a bit embarrassing. However listening to music or reading a book in public is totally ok? I believe this is because video games are not considered a normal media. This is one of the reasons why games are looked down upon and is subject to controversy. I will be arguing for video games to become considered a normal media, my opponent will argue against it. ======================================= 1. The Gamer Stereotype I believe that one of the reasons why video games are not considered a normal media is because of the stereotype gamers get. When you play video games in public, why do you feel embarrassed? You probably are thinking about what others are thinking of you. You probably think they think you look like this: https://gamerstereotype.files.wordpress.com... This is the gamer stereotype, and it is terribly inaccurate. According to this article [1] when someone calls themselves a gamer, they are just classifying themselves with others who have the same likes as them. They aren't like the stereotype. Plus, with the booming mobile market, there are more people who are getting into video games. Ask yourself this, how many if these people are actually like the stereotype? Not a lot. 2. Similarities What defines media? First, we need to list some types of media (not to be confused with things like the news). Some types of media are books, TV, and music. What similarities make them classified as media? One similarity I see is that they are all past-times and are used for entertainment. Video games can be used as past-times or entertainment. This seems to be the only similarity that these forms of media share, and video games share it as well. 3. Popularity There is a huge gaming community out there. According to source [2], the population of gamers in the US in 2009 was about 170 million. The current population of the US, according to the United States Census Bureau, is about 316.1 million. Doing the math shows that the percentage of gamers to the total US population is about 47%. That's almost HALF the US population, so why not let them enjoy their games without being judged. ===================================== Sources: [1]: https://gamerstereotype.wordpress.com... [2]: http://www.gamespot.com...	PRO	8
8	Sdbf33cc6-Ad589255c	video games	"Instigator's argument is that gaming is a good activity when one is bored and is actually ""fun"" and connects you with others around the world. Problems with Instigator's argument: Instigator states gaming is a ""good activity."" I am not sure what the Instigator means by ""good activity"". Does he mean healthy? Does he mean something else? Instigator must polish this argument to be more valid. POINT 1: What does good activity mean? It is not defined and seems like an opinion. The word fun is subjective. One may find reseaching paper more fun than video games. One may find board games more fun than video games. POINT 2: Video games are not ""fun"" for everybody. There are some who dislike video games, because ""fun"" is a subjective term. Next, Instigator points our that it connects you to people around the world. However, that can only be true for multiplayer games or games with a large community. POINT 3: Gaming can only connect you to others only if you have certain games and internet access. I await future arguments from Instigator."	CON	9
9	S6706fa3e-A5b89f6b6	Video games	Should kids under the age of 13 be allowed to buy violent video games with or without an adult ? No, that's why there's a rating on the back of the box. To avoid minors from buying M-rated games. Violent video games will expose kids to gore, violence, and sex. And kids ages 13 and below are more prone to aggresion according to a article that tested out this theory. http://www.theguardian.com... In conclusion, kids shouldn't buy M-rated games because they are not fully mature enough to play them.	CON	10
10	Sb3a7b166-A73185544	Video Games (yes) Board Games (no)	Video Games all the way! Video games are way better! The reason I think that is because people play a lot more video games than board games. Board games are just dumb!	PRO	11
11	Sb3a7b166-Af4a6481e	Video Games (yes) Board Games (no)	"I like board games and hope this will be a good debate. Rebuttles: Pro stated that the reason video games are better is because more people play them. First, where is the evidence for this? I personally see many people still play games like scrabble, cards, monopoly, etc. Second, this in no way proves that video games are better. Suppose that more than 80 percent of the population smoked. That doesn't mean we can conclude that it's better to smoke than to not smoke. I know that's a bad example but you cannot decide whether something's better than something else just based on the usage. Arguments Against Video Games: 1. Video games are directly related to increased aggression in children that play them [1]. This is bad because aggressive children are more prone to violence and thus crimes. Arguments for Board Games: 1. When you play board games, you interact more with other people. When you play video games, you might occasionally talk with other players or play multiplayer, but most of it is completely self-centered. Board games are better because you actually play with other people. 2. Board games are better because they require more thinking and strategy. Games like Stratego, Chess, and Risk require lots of thinking on the players part. Not so much for video games. When you play a video game, you don't have to think as much and in fact the article ""Video games make boys stupid"" says that there if you ""give a boy a PlayStation II... it is statistically more likely to make him slower at reading and writing. He will also have more learning problems."" [2] Good luck Sources: 1. http://www.healthline.com... 2. http://www.theinquirer.net..."	CON	12
12	Sde7919ff-A6c4c0f65	Video Games	"This is ran all off from memory so don't think all of my information is accurate 100%. I may not make it to round 3, we're losing internet. Sorry Hyrulian. But to the point now... Video games shouldn't be considered normal media as for how easy it is too show. Let's take the PSP for example, one of my favorite stealth games is on there, Manhunt 2. If you have ever seen it, the game is very violent and bloody, not for kids. If a kid saw it and told her/his mother about it she might not be that impressed. Yes songs, movies, and books show this but they have to have them listening, not hearing. They have played ""Take it off"" By Ke$ha or something like that at a few school dances and they don't really get what it means because they don't listen to it. As such doesn't show them what they mean, but you don't need to think to know what a video game means, since it shows it to you. It won't become apart of normal media because of that, and because of how some people re-act to it very differently. If you're playing a jump scare game such as ""Slender Man"" and you get jump scared and scream out loud, you're going to get some funny looks. With the stereotype horror gamer (Set by Pewdiepie, seems like) they will scream. Also, it seems people will get angry at video games, a popular example being Flappy Bird. Everyone feels the rage with it, and tend to get a little... crazy. Most gamers my dad has met, not being a gamer himself, are the ones that get angry and take it out on the controller. Going with that, that will make gamers look mentally incapable to control there anger. Thus making Video Games different type of media. For the last point, we can't forget things are remembered or thought of by the bad. When the Sandy Hook shooting happened, the news blamed Video gaming for it. The game that drove him to do it was Video games. But people don't realize it's not the games fault, it's the parents because they failed to teach them reality from fantasy. Could it be part of normal media? One day, but it won't happen anytime soon."	CON	13
13	Sa4146c4c-A92b01315	Video Games	30 mins is all kids need to play video games. My cousin only plays his video games for 30 mins and he is a HUGE gamer. Even big gamers only need 30 mins to practice for gaming tournaments.	CON	14
14	Sde7919e0-A6ec11037	Video Games	Alright I want a rematch seeing as you won. Video Games are not too violent because me being 12 play games like COD all the time and Silent Hill and Slenderman, but I will still will have nightmares after seeing a real dead person. With a video game you know its fake so you have nothing to worry about when playing it.	PRO	15
15	Sa4146d25-Ae59a611f	Video Games	"Okay well dangit, it would appear the entire process of creating this debate was pointless, because we're agreeing. Incase you didn't see the big ""PRO"" sign sticking out there, I'm all for video games. If you have a friend who is anti-video games, please let him use your computer because I'm in the mood for a legit debate here."	PRO	16
16	Sde7919c1-A2b36dbd0	Video Games	Video games can be good and they can be really fun. The problem is some video games are too violent. They desensitize people to images of blood and gore. When people see real pictures of dead people they're less shocked or saddened by it because of the amount of violence they've been exposed to.	CON	17
17	Sa4146d25-Af00ba130	Video Games	Well im that guy so the fundimentals of video games are stupid like dora what is the point of it so yeah. Those games that anyalize your IQ are mentally stupid.	CON	18
18	Sa4146d25-Abe2b3821	Video Games	This debate will be about video games as a whole, including whethe ror not they're okay for people, if they do cause mental problems, if they're a waste of time, or some other thing people talk about with games.	PRO	19
19	Sc82afe8b-A23f0e7af	Video games are a sport	"This is a question many gamers and non-gamers ask all the time online. Are video games a mental game, or are they just for inactive slackers? Everyone knows a person who is into video games or you just might be into video games and it is very well to know if these games are worthwhile. Although something might be a sport, it doesn""t mean it""s productive. Video games could be a sport in a way. Many people say that video games aren""t a sport for its lack of physical activity. There are many games that are considered to be a sport but have no physical activity in them; some of these sports include curling, chess, auto racing, golf, competitive eating, and poker. You would think that most of these sports include mental productivity but so do video games because many them challenge the gamer to make tough decisions, take risks, and work as a team. Games such as ""Star Craft"" can increase a player""s brain flexibility (This was found out by British researchers Brian Glass, Todd Maddox, and Bradley Love). Although video games could be a sport they also could not be considered a sport. ""Sport"" is defined as ""an athletic activity requiring skill or physical prowess and often of a competitive nature,"" by Dictionary.com. If you think about it most people play video games for entertainment and for doing nothing. Most people don""t play virtual games thinking that they are going to become a professional gamer with mental skill in the game. Video games do have some productive games but are not used for productiveness and used as excuses to wasting time on a computer or console. In conclusion, I would say that video games are a sport. Even though they can be useless, they are a sport. Sports aren""t always productive just like video games but it is a skill that is very challenging to earn. Video games can be very lazy, sluggish, and idle but it""s still a skill that can be a competitive and worldwide."	PRO	20
20	S3466ccde-A7450af0d	Video Games cause violence	"I thank my opponent for instigating this debate and wish him good luck! Since Pro has not forbade me from presenting arguments in the first round, I will do exactly that. The resolution: ""Video games do not cause violence to a scale which is large enough to be worried about"" In this debate, I will not argue that video games cause kids to get up and shoot/attack someone. Rather, I will argue that there is a correlation between violent behavior of any sort to violent video games. ------------------------- A. Definitions and Clarifications 1A - Information Though my opponent would probably like me to argue that there is a definitive link between video games and murderous or extreme, I will instead focus on proving that there is a correlation between video games and worrisome violence as per my opponent's resolution. ""Video Games DO NOT cause violence (Or at least not at a scale which is large enough to worry about.)"" Thus, using these definitions, I will prove that Video Games have the potential and definitively have caused worrisome violence. 1B - Assumption about the resolution ""Video games"" - I will assume that this is not in reference to all video games as my opponent failed to include ""all"" in his resolution of this indeed the case. Instead, I will assume that the resolution suggests that ""Video games with violent themes or otherwise aggressive content in them do not cause violence"", as it would be pointless to debate over whether games like Mario Kart or Angry Birds cause violence. That would be extremely redundant. 1C - The Definition of Violence Violence is not limited to actions which result in the imminent harm of another person. vi·o·lence [vahy-uh-luhns] noun 1. swift and intense force: the violence of a storm. 2. rough or injurious physical force, action, or treatment: to die by violence. 3. an unjust or unwarranted exertion of force or power, as against rights or laws: to take over agovernment by violence 4. a violent act or proceeding. 5. rough or immoderate vehemence, as of feeling or language: the violence of his hatred. B. Arguments B1 - Violent Video Games cause worrisome violence, and all violence is worrisome Most especially in youth, the exertion of noticeable or otherwise untriggered violence is abnormal and signatory of deviation in the proper growth and functioning of their brain. If someone exhibits violent behaviour, then that should be inherently major enough for those who care about them to consider as ""big enough to worry about"". For that reason, I dismiss the ""big enough to worry about"" part of pro's resolution. In the linked video, you will see adolescents, children, and even adults exhibiting behavior that can be considered to be ""violent"" as a result of video gaming. B2 - Those who benefit from video games and never exhibit violence even though they play them are irrelevant to the resolution My opponent has presented me with the resolution that: ""Video Games DO NOT cause violence (Or at least not at a scale which is large enough to worry about.) Scientests have found however there are many benifits to video games such as socialisation increased reflexes etc."" Whilst it is true that in certain cases video games can bring benefits like increased reflexes, the resolution is over whether violent video games are one of the many possible causes of violence, not whether video games cause violence in every instance. Comparison: ""Being abused as a child most definitely is a contributing cause to future violence, but not in every instance. The fact that abuse as a child does not result in violence in every instance makes it no less of a cause for those who are violent as a result of it"" This concept can be applied to video games. B3 - The APA attributes that video games have the potential to cause violence in some youths Youth who are troubled or have anger issues have been widely attributed to being triggered into versions of violence by video games [3] Some people obviously experience benefits from playing video games (including myself) and have a sense of control, but for those who do not, video games pose as an extreme risk and inevitable cause/trigger of violence. The article in which I use as a source is actually in favour of the usage of video games amongst children, as am I. However, it also attributes that video games cause violence in some adolescents. Even if the benefits of video games outweigh the negatives, video games still can be attributed as a cause of violent behavior for a significant portion of people. The article contains a wide variety of content that is rightfully ""in favour of video games"", however, since violence is the only result of video games being discussed, their statements regarding it as an effect for some people prove it to be a cause. --References-- [1] - (http://dictionary.reference.com...) [2] - (http://www.apa.org...) moreso about TV violence but also applicable to video games [3] - (http://www.apa.org...)"	PRO	21
21	S293c2e1e-Add15d6b1	Video Games in School	Video games should not be allowed in school. I currently go to a school that provides computers for students. I assume that when you talk about providing video games, you are talking about the free use of technology. The problem is, student will just abuse this privilege, in fact, the kid next to me in math class is just playing video games. Video games in school would be nothing but distracting and counter-productive. And while yes they may relieve stress, the build up of homework will stress the students even more, they play video games in school not doing work, they get more homework because of the work the student didn't do, and then, they play more video games to relieve the stress they caused. And of course some are educational, but those are the games students hate, they wouldn't play those, they would just abuse their privilege. Do not support video games in school.	CON	22
22	Sdbf33cc6-Accbf56c0	video games	"As Instigator has forfeited once again, I will give my argument. Though video games are an activity to pass the time, there are some other alternatives. The one I'll mainly be using is sports. Sports do what Instigator said about video games and more. - Sports can be considered fun, and can be effectively used to pass the time. - Playing sports can lead you to meet new people. But there's a big difference between sports and video games. Though I can't say anything about either being more enjoyable over another, Playing sports will lead you to bond stronger with new people. Since you meet them in person, you will be able to hold more relations with them and trust them more, versus a person you barely know and trust that you met through the internet and don't even know what they look like. Also, video games may bring you towards new people, they aren't always the most pleasant people to be around, especially ones from hyper-competitive games (Specifically, Multiplayer Online Battle Arenas, or MOBAs) will flame others around them and negatively effect their experience. Playing sports also makes the ""players"" healthier. Sports consist of physical activity, meaning that, opposed to sitting on the couch, they will be active and benefiting their bodies. Those are my arguments, and hopefully you will take them into consideration."	CON	23
23	Se7c559b0-Abc60522d	Video games are good for you.	"I am supporting that video games are good for you because of the following reasons. Video games make you more creative. (1) A study conducted by Michigan State University, published online in the journal Computers in Human Behavior, suggests that kids who play video games tend to be more creative. I'm not sure exactly how you measure a person's creativity levels, but maybe video game designers should fine-tune their games to develop even more creativity with users. Fast action video games ""help train people to make quick, accurate decisions in all aspects of life, new findings suggest. When you are facing a challenging problem in a video game, you need a fast reaction to solve the problem. Video games can help fine-tune your brain. Studies show that video games can help increase your attention span, improving people's driving skills and abilities to multi-task. When you are in a video game, you cannot be distracted because of the possibility of losing, There are many more reasons that video games are good for you. I will release the rest of my information if the challenger has a good enough debate. (1) http://www.nickcannon.com..."	PRO	24
24	Sde7919c1-Adf6d044f	Video Games	Video games are good	PRO	25
25	Sdbf33cc6-Ac86de19b	video games	video games are good for they genY of today	PRO	26
26	Sd5fac21c-A9759da5b	Video Games Are Good for You	Alright! This is my first debate on here, so I'll try to do my best. 1. Video games provide useful social skills. Most video games nowadays require teamwork and cooperation with other players in order to win. Playing these games can help you out in the real world, where social skills like these are important in order to complete tasks. Also, these kinds of games can help you connect with more people of different races and cultures. This can help you build relationships and become comfortable with different people. 2. Video games help relieve stress. Playing video games reduces your stress and pain. When you're playing games, your brain is more focused on winning the game than on thinking about stress and pain. Playing games release endorphins in your brain, which can make you happier while reducing the amount of pain we feel and stress we have. 3. Electronic games can help boost your brain. Believe it or not, playing video games can actually help shape up your brain. Playing games can improve your concentration and focus. A study revealed that kids with attention disorders had better test scores after they played video games because it helped them focus harder. Video games also teach you how to deal with problems. A ton of video games require the use of strategic thinking in order to win. Playing these games could help you make smart decisions faster and help you solve problems in real life. Sources: http://www.huffingtonpost.com... http://www.raisesmartkid.com... Rebuttals in Round 3 Conclusions in Round 4 (I forgot to include it in the rules) Your move! :)	PRO	27
27	S5b6b2f9-Adf5e5624	Violent Video Games	"Can Video Games Kill? The definition of violence is behavior involving physical force intended to hurt, damage, or kill someone or something. For example, in Grand Theft Auto V, the three main characters are all thieves, or something along the lines of that work. In the game, they go around robbing people of cars, money, and other possible objects. It does have a wide range of weapons to use in case they get into trouble. Do video games cause this violence? No, not always. Violent video games will not always make gamers aggressive or violent. People say that because they play something like GTAV, they will become human-murdering monsters, or a thief. Violent video games do not directly make people violent as the... “... arrest rate for juvenile murders had fallen 71.9% between 1995 and 2008. The arrest rate for all juvenile violent crimes have declined 49.3%. In the same period video game sales have more than quadrupled” (Crime in the United States). The teenage arrest rate has significantly gone down while video game sales have risen. Therefore, the violence in video games has not affected the teenagers’ feelings and/or violence. Though people have tested their theories and got results that would make it seem the opposite than the facts, “many studies suffer from design flaws and use unreliable measures of violence and aggression” (Internet Fantasy Violence). Therefore, most of those studies are not reliable. Difficult levels and practice (or lack of) make players aggressive, like in this study, “Lack of practice, awkward controls and games that were unnecessarily difficult all caused frustration” (Violent Video Games…). So the violence does not cause the player to 'rage quit' or scream at the television, their experience and lack of skill, will. Games can make the player aggressive, just not in the way it seems. One study “enhanced” the game Tetris making it able to know what piece is needed, and not giving it 78% of the time. After playing the subjects had their anger tested. Those who used the super hard version had a lot more anger than those who played the regular version (Violent Video Games). So even Tetris can make the average player angry, probably one of the least violent games in video game history. Violent video games are also safe outlets for players to let out anger. Here it states“...that 45% of boys played video games because, ‘it helps me get my anger out’ and 62% played because it, ‘helps me to relax’” (Journal of Adolescence Health). Here it states that many kids/teens use video games to rid them of stress, so they don’t act out on others. “Video game players understand they are playing a game... [this] prevents them from emulating video game violence in real life” (An Exploration of Adolescents…) This tells that people and hard-core gamers know that it is just a game. They know not to terrorize people, or hurt others. They need video games to relieve themselves of stress. Now people might say, ‘What if they do not know the difference?’ People (mainly parents) need to trust others (or in some cases) their own children, because more likely than not. They understand it is just a game. Remember there is not a strong connection between aggression and violent video games. Also, violent video games do not directly make people violent, difficult levels and practice (or the lack of) make players aggressive. Violent video games are also safe outlets for kids to learn about world issues and a safe outlets for relieving stress. “...if we’re worried about the effects on kids of video games... we should not be encouraging them to play less. We should be encouraging them to play more” (Violent Video Games…). Works Cited Bennett, Drake. ""Violent Video Games Don't Make You Aggressive (but Tetris Might)."" Bloomberg Business Week. Bloomberg, 15 Apr. 2014. Web. 18 Nov. 2014. Cheryl Olson, Lawrence Kutner, Dorothy Warner, Jason Almerigi, Lee Baer, Armand Nicholi, and Eugene Beresin, ""Factors Correlated with Violent Video Game Use by Adolescent Boys and Girls,"" Journal of Adolescent Health, July 2007 ""Crime in the United States, 2008,"" FBI website, Sep. 2009 Dmitri Williams and Marko Skoric, ""Internet Fantasy Violence: A Test of Aggression in an Online Game,"" Communication Monographs, June 2005 ""Essential Facts about the Computer and Video Game Industry,"" Entertainment Software Association website, May 2009 Fiona Macrae for the Daily Mail. ""Violent Video Games DON'T Make Players Aggressive - Lack of Practice and Difficult Levels Do."" Mail Online. Associated Newspapers, 07 Apr. 2014. Web. 18 Nov. 2014. Michael Reagan, ""US Military Recruits Children: 'America's Army' Video Game Violates International Law,"" Truthout website, July 23, 2008 Steven Malliet, ""An Exploration of Adolescents' Perceptions of Videogame Realism,"" Learning Media and Technology, 2006"	PRO	28
28	Se7c559b0-A7cb0e71e	Video games are good for you.	"Thank you for challenging me. I will be in the position that video games are not good overall. Contentions Contention 1- Addictive Addiction is defined as ""The condition of being habitually or compulsively occupied with or involved insomething."" People who have really been into video games has experienced this. Many people think about getting home and playing games. They spend a great amount of time reading gaming magazines, participating in online gaming forums, looking for future game releases, and of course, spending countless hours playing games. When they aren't doing any of these things, they're wishing they were. This takes so much time and there is little things educational to it. Contention 2- Expensive In order to stay current with the latest video games and hardware, you must spend money. Many people spend all of their money on gaming. It is really common fora gamer to have 50-100 games that cost $40-$50 each. They often have at least 2 different game consoles ($50-200) and 1 high-end PC($600-2000). This adds up to thousands of dollars a year. Contention 3- Video Games Hurt Relationships There is a direct relationship with the amount of time spent playing video games, and the amount of time spent in a quality relationship. In the most extreme example case I could find, there was a couple that were so consumed in video games that they ended up neglecting their 3 children to the point that they were malnourished, naked, and covered in their own feces. Although that's an extreme case, I still think there's something to be said about people who spend the majority of their free time playing video games. They're probably not dating or pursuing a meaningful relationship in their free time. Contention 4- Video Games are distracting and cause procrastination Intense video gamers usually don't get much done. Reading a book, paying bills, writing an article, inventing something, mowing the lawn, etc... are simply not a priority when it comes to getting to the next level or finishing a game. Many people have things they would like to do in life, but they never get around to it, because they spend so much of their time playing games. Then, when they do have time to work on one of their projects, they are tired because they stayed up to 3 AM playing games. Contention 5- Video Games can rob you of real life Instead of taking a trip, mountain biking, or interacting with friends, video game addicts spend their time in a virtual reality. Whereas real life experiences bear long lasting friendships and memories, video games do not. Living means interacting, growing, learning, teaching, and loving, none of which can be accomplished in the virtual wasteland of video games. Contention 6- Health According to Kidshealth.org, videogames can harm peoples' health. It is hard to get enough exercise if you are always inside playing video games. Without exercise, people can get overweight. Contention 7- Academics A video game addict spends too much time on video games, making school and homework a second priority. Studies show that students who spend hours playing video games do not progress as quickly in school compared to students who don't play video games. Contention 8- Alters Brain Functions According to Science Daily, a study by the Indiana University School of Medicine found that sustained changes in the region of the brain associated with cognitive function and emotional control were found in young adult men. These changes altered the functions of the brain. Rebuttals 1. There are many other ways to be creative, ways that will not damage your health, relationships, and your brain. As I showed above, video games have a bad affect on your brain. 2. When you are tired from playing untill 3AM, you will not make fast or very good decisions. As I proved above, video games damage your brain by altering cognitive senses. Which source is more accurate, Science Daily or Some random person's blog? 3. ""You cannot be distracted"" No, you are distracted from life by the video game. Conclusion Video games are bad overall. Sources http://www.themedguru.com... http://kidshealth.org... http://www.sciencedaily.com... http://www.familyresource.com..."	CON	29
29	S46745944-A79680f8c	Video Games Lead To Violence	"There was a study done with 200 kids, with kids the age of 10 or 11, showing that the longer they played video games, the more aggression was stored up in the kids. Children who played for longer than three hours each day had higher levels of aggression and lower levels of academic engagement. Considering the vast number of children and youth who use video games and that more than 85% of video games on the market contain some form of violence, the public has understandably been concerned about the effects that using violent video games may have on individuals, especially children and adolescents. Now admittedly that video games are not the main reason for mass homicide and school shootings because it all comes from the person's family, environment, and chemical imbalances that they might hold but like you said, ""Video games can assist with the growth and development of our brain."" While video games can be healthy for brain development they can do just the complete opposite in people, especially in children and adolescents, because their brains are still developing. Scientific research has demonstrated an association between violent video game use and both increases in aggressive behavior, aggressive affect, aggressive cognitions and decreases in prosocial behavior, empathy, and moral engagement. Playing violent video games causes more aggression, bullying, and fighting. 60% of middle school boys and 40% of middle school girls who played at least one Mature-rated (M-rated) game hit or beat up someone, compared with 39% of boys and 14% of girls who did not play M-rated games. A 2014 peer-reviewed study in the Journal of the American Medical Association found that habitual violent video game playing had a causal link with increased, long-term, aggressive behavior. Several peer-reviewed studies have shown that children who play M-rated games are more likely to bully and cyberbully their peers, get into physical fights, be hostile, argue with teachers, and show aggression towards their peers throughout the school year."	PRO	30
30	S1774917c-A4732400b	Video Games Are Bad For Children	I strongly believe that video games are not bad for children. Video games teach children problem solving and logic, perseverance, accuracy, memory, concentration, and quick thinking. People will argue that video games are addicting and are a waste of time, but with the right time restriction and monitoring, video games are good for children.	CON	31
31	S293c2e1e-A588155fa	Video Games in School	Kids should be able to play video games in school. Video games help relieve stress you could play them with friends making it a social activity. Some video games are even made for education and are supposed to teach you. So support video games in school.	PRO	32
32	S898fa5f0-Aab91c9f7	Video games are bad for children.	I strongly believe that video games are not bad for children. Video games teach children problem solving and logic, perseverance, accuracy, memory, concentration, and quick thinking. People will argue that video games are addicting and are a waste of time, but with the right time restriction and monitoring, video games are good for children.	CON	33
33	Sfc3f97e0-Aa83ad4e3	Video Games Are Bad for You	"This puts me in a very difficult position. I understand that video games can be good for you, but when someone does nothing but play video games, there can be serious repercussions. I have a couple friends that play video games for only 30min a day, but have been playing video games for a long time. Some of these games (in this case, Call of Duty) track how long you cumulatively play. All this time added together, my friends have wasted many days of their lives playing these games. How much would would you give to have just one more day in your life. People will be on their death beds, regretting everything that they didn't do, and think of all the times when they chose to play video games instead of doing something else. There are also people literally wasting their lives away by playing video games. ""[I]t""s not uncommon to hit upwards of twelve hours"" [1]. Playing video games for half of your day can really have an impact on all aspects of your life. It is also not uncommon for people to become addicted to video games. As you know, people can't help becoming addicted to things. The 30 minutes a day is essentially the same as just one cigarette. There is actually a whole website dedicated to the ongoing problem of video game addiction [2]. If this isn't a problem, not as much attention would be focused on it. These are my arguments. Good luck to my opponent. [1] http://cashplay.co... [2] http://www.video-game-addiction.org..."	PRO	34
34	S45462ad0-Afc516c7	Can video games be healthy	"My final argument is as follows:- Most of the bad effects of video games are blamed on the violence they contain. Children who play more violent video games are more likely to have increased aggressive thoughts, feelings, and behaviors, and decreased prosocial helping, according to a scientific study (Anderson & Bushman, 2001). Also according to Dmitri A. Christakis of the Seattle Children""s Research Institute, those who watch a lot of simulated violence, such as those in video games, can become immune to it, more inclined to act violently themselves, and are less likely to behave emphatically. The effect of video game violence in kids is worsened by the games"" interactive nature. In many games, kids are rewarded for being more violent. The act of violence is done repeatedly. The child is in control of the violence and experiences the violence in his own eyes (killings, kicking, stabbing and shooting). This active participation, repetition and reward are effective tools for learning behavior. Indeed, many studies seem to indicate that violent video games may be related to aggressive behavior (such as Anderson & Dill, 2000; Gentile, Lynch & Walsh, 2004). However, the evidence is not consistent and this issue is far from settled. The American Psychological Association (APA) also concluded that there is a ""consistent correlation"" between violent game use and aggression, but finds insufficient evidence to link violent video play to criminal violence. An open letter by a number of media scholars, psychologists and criminologists, however, find APA""s study and conclusion to be misleading and alarmist. On the other hand, many experts including Henry Jenkins of Massachusetts Institute of Technology have noted that there is a decreased rate of juvenile crime which coincides with the popularity of games such as Death Race, Mortal Kombat, Doom and Grand Theft auto. He concludes that teenage players are able to leave the emotional effects of the game behind when the game is over. Indeed there are cases of teenagers who commit violent crimes who also spend great amount of time playing video games such as those involved in the Columbine and Newport cases. It appears that there will always be violent people, and it just so happen that many of them also enjoy playing violent video games. Too much video game playing makes your kid socially isolated. Also, he may spend less time in other activities such as doing homework, reading, sports, and interacting with the family and friends. On the other hand, a study by researchers at the North Carolina State University, New York and the University Of Ontario Institute Of Technology points out that gamers usually do not replace their offline social lives with online game playing, but rather it expands them. In fact, among gamers, being a loner is not the norm. Some video games teach kids the wrong values. Violent behavior, vengeance and aggression are rewarded. Negotiating and other nonviolent solutions are often not options. Women are often portrayed as weaker characters that are helpless or sexually provocative. On the other hand, a University of Buffalo study suggests that violence and bad behavior played in the virtual world may be contributing to better behavior in the real world. Gamers who play violent games may feel guilty about their behavior in the virtual world and this may make them be more sensitive to the moral issues they violated during game play. Games can confuse reality and fantasy. Academic achievement may be negatively related to over-all time spent playing video games. Studies have shown that the more time a kid spends playing video games, the poorer is his performance in school. (Anderson & Dill, 2000; Gentile, Lynch & Walsh, 2004). A study by Argosy University""s Minnesota School on Professional Psychology found that video game addicts argue a lot with their teachers, fight a lot with their friends, and score lower grades than others who play video games less often. Other studies show that many game players routinely skip their homework to play games, and many students admitted that their video game habits are often responsible for poor school grades. Although some studies suggest that playing video games enhances a child""s concentration, other studies, such as a 2012 paper published in Psychology of Popular Media Culture, have found that games can hurt and help children""s attention issues "" improving the ability to concentrate in short bursts but damaging long-term concentration. Video games may also have bad effects on some children""s health, including obesity, video-induced seizures. and postural, muscular and skeletal disorders, such as tendonitis, nerve compression, carpal tunnel syndrome. When playing online, your kid can pick up bad language and behavior from other people, and may make your kid vulnerable to online dangers. A study by the Minneapolis-based National Institute for Media and the Family suggests that video games can be addictive for kids, and that the kids"" addiction to video games increases their depression and anxiety levels. Addicted kids also exhibit social phobias. Not surprisingly, kids addicted to video games see their school performance suffer. Kids spending too much time playing video games may exhibit impulsive behavior and have attention problems. This is according to a new study published in the February 2012 issue of the Journal of Psychology and Popular Media Culture. For the study, attention problems were defined as difficulty engaging in or sustaining behavior to reach a goal. According to Catherine Steiner-Adair, a Harvard-affiliated psychologist and author of the best-selling book ""The Big Disconnect: Protecting Childhood and Family Relationship in the Digital Age"", if kids are allowed to play ""Candy Crush"" on the way to school, the trip will be quiet, but it""s not what kids need. ""They need time to daydream, deal with anxieties, process their thoughts and share them with parents, who can provide reassurance."" I accordace to the latest comment, check the previous argument, it has links to websites OK, moving on here are a few links for you: 1. http://healthresearchfunding.org... 2. greengarageblog.org/10-primary-pros-and-cons-of-violent-video-games 3. https://my.vanderbilt.edu... 4. www.thesun.co.uk/sol/.../Pros-and-cons-of-playing-video-games.html 5. nlcatp.org/5-major-pros-and-cons-of-violent-video-games/ 6. 7. https://prezi.com... 8. 9. https://prezi.com... 10. 11. 12. https://prezi.com... 13. https://archive.org... 14. http://www.barnegatschools.com... 15. http://sharpbrains.com... 16. www.showandtellforparents.com/wfdata/frame156-1002/pressrel51.asp 17. www.happychild.com.au/articles/violence-in-video-games-what-parents-need-to-know 18. https://www.psychologytoday.com... 19. money.cnn.com/2015/08/17/technology/video-game-violence/ 20. www.cbsnews.com/news/do-violent-video-games-lead-to-criminal-behavior/ 21. www.healthline.com "" Healthline News 22. www.independent.co.uk "" News "" Science 23. www.bbc.com/news/technology-33960075 24. time.com/4000220/violent-video-games/ 25. http://www.scientificamerican.com... 26. news.sky.com/.../study-violent-video-games-lead-to-aggression 27. 28. www.theonion.com/.../case-and-against-letting-children-play-video-... 29. gamerant.com/video-game-violence-survey/ 30. studymoose.com/do-violent-video-games-cause-bad-behavior-essay"	CON	35
35	Sdafffd65-A83ea2dc0	Video Games Are An Art Form	Are Video Games Art? Roger Ebert famously said that they can never be, yet even though I highly respect him as a film critic, I'm afraid that I must disagree, video games are art, and even though it may be the youngest medium I believe that despite the non-artistic video games (call of duty, wwe, etc.) there are many games that contain artistic merits of complex philosophical storylines (Metal Gear Solid, Shadow of the Colossus), and games that rival emotional impact in films and other mediums (The Walking Dead Video Game, Ico.) This will be a three round debate with each round being as follows: Round 1: Opening Arguments, display what your main arguments are. Round 2: Debating, challenge the other debaters contentions Round 3: Closing, End with a wrap up of the debate. So I argue that video games are indeed art, and unless the challenger and disprove this claim, then I believe I have won, and video games should be recognized as an art form by all.	PRO	36
36	S2120845c-A4ada1635	Video games can be good.	I believe that the title is self explanatory. I will be in favour of video games possibly being good. Video games can be good. Con will be against me, saying that in all cases, video games are bad.	PRO	37
37	S7a99f4c0-A4b28fe73	Video games cause violence	"I would like to commend you for a very good argument for round 2! As for your statements ""First of all, video games are addictive. A study and discussion by the American Medical Association discussed the fact that video game addiction (VGA) was a real and prominent issue in the health of many Americans."" Soon after the meeting that the AMA had in 2007, they retracted their statement on the matter, and many addiction experts were strongly against the notion that video game addiction should be considered a real addiction. (Sources: http://uk.reuters.com..., http://www.theguardian.com...) ""Video games > Video game addiction > stress, depression, and mental health issues > domestic violence."" I must point out an issue in this reasoning. This statement you have made make the impression that you think that video game addiction leads to stress, depression, and mental health issues. In fact, many experts believe that stress is a major factor leading to video game addiction (and a big one too). (Source: http://www.healthxchange.com.sg...) ""I will argue that violence in games normalizes violence in real life and teaches children, teenagers, and adults the basics of shooting"" Many studies have also shown that violent video games do not desensitize kids and those most liable to have their minds altered. The studies would show kids who play non-violent and violent games different pictures, some showing graphic scenes (like a man holding a gun to a woman's head). The subjects would have their reactions to the photos monitored and recorded. They found that there was no difference between the violent game players' and non-violent game players' reactions. Many kids recognize and respect the boundaries between the virtual and real world, and would not cross them when it comes to violence. (Sources: http://health.usnews.com..., http://gamepolitics.com...) As to the specific cases, there is no proof that Adam Lanza, Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold, and other mass murderers like them were influenced by video games. Studies have shown that many video games can be calming, and that huge amounts of people use video games to calm down and relax. They see it as a way to escape the harsh realizations of reality and to enjoy themselves. The cases of violence related to video games are minuscule in number, and usually are more because the perpetrator has a mental illness than because of the video games themselves. May I wish you good luck, and Merry Christmas!"	CON	38
38	Sa27442f9-A9e26c6b4	video games	well as you say video games aren't violent it's a fact check my proof: http://health.usnews.com...	PRO	39
39	Sa27442f9-Af17de82b	video games	video games are dangerous because you get points for killing. also they kill brain cells	PRO	40
40	S74862f47-A2f5797d2	Video games should be censored	I will start by addressing the point that video games are protected by the first amendment. First off, I never stated that we are debating whether we CAN censor video games. I stated we SHOULD censor video games. My opponent fails to recognise that the resolution never states the United States as being the only country we are debating about. We are debating about all countries and all nations. Video games are widely popular around the world. take Nintendo for instance, Nintendo is a company based in Japan. While my partner is correct, video games are protected by the first amendment, their argument is rendered useless because of the limited impact the US has on the video game industry. My opponent is correct in his point that video games are rated but, how many of your friends abuse and often overlook these ratings? Maybe even you have before? The point is that even when they have these ratings, there is no restriction to who can buy them. If they have the choice, so be it, but they may get the idea that the content is okay when in reality, it is completely the opposite.	PRO	41
41	Sc3b79282-Ae07ac7c9	are video games good for teens	My opponent is only average and plays video games, video games enforce mediocrity over excellence. Video games are communist by their very nature and look where that went in the past.	CON	42
42	Sbd51665d-Aca02cf90	Video games are for loser Nerds	"Replacing your words, with your definitions: Video games are for people who lose and who do not get invited to parties. Nor do these individuals get TANG. Given that video games tend to have a fail state, this also implies the possibility of victory, or a win state. Therein-by an individual who is deemed a loser has the potential to see victory by the nature of what a game is. It cannot be proved that anyone is without defeats before participating in a video game. This presents the possibility that both a loser and winner are capable of achieving a victory or a loss. This contradicts the notion that video games are only for people who tend to lose. This contradiction comes from the ability of winners to play a video game. If video games were in fact for losers, that would make it impossible for winners to even play. By establishing that winners and losers are both capable of playing a video game, I have rendered the noun of nerd irrelevant in regards to your proposal. If video games were ""for"" a specific audience, it would be prominently displayed by those creating games who their intended audience is. It would also be of common knowledge to a wider public who this audience is. There is no such common understanding between persons that video games are intended to be played by nerds. To which you defined as those who do not get invited to parties or who do not get TANG. Common knowledge is not basis for conclusive findings or a statement of fact. It applies in this instance as the debate is one of the intended audience. By establishing that those outside the intended audience play video games, you can disprove the notion of your proposal."	CON	43
43	S6706fa3e-Ace22358e	Video games	Should video games be so violent and should teens 13 or younger be allowed to buy them without an adult?	PRO	44
44	S45462ad0-A766d79a3	Can video games be healthy	"I shall present my next evidences: 1. 90% of pediatricians and 67% of parents agreed or strongly agreed that violent video games can increase aggressive behavior among children. [75] 2. Violence is Fun Violent video games make hurting and killing people entertaining. This notion that violence is fun can cause gamers to imitate the game just for fun. 3. 60% of middle school boys and 40% of middle school girls who played at least one Mature-rated (M-rated) game hit or beat up someone, compared with 39% of boys and 14% of girls who did not play M-rated games. [63] 4. Makes Violence Acceptable The games impart that violence is an effective strategy for solving conflicts and for attaining one""s goals. A 2009 research found that those who play violent video games believe in violent strategies more than those who play non violent video games. 5. Simulating violence such as shooting guns and hand-to-hand combat in video games can cause real-life violent behavior. Video games often require players to simulate violent actions, such as stabbing, shooting, or dismembering someone with an ax, sword, chainsaw, or other weapons. Game controllers are so sophisticated and the games are so realistic that simulating the violent acts enhances the learning of those violent behaviors. [23] A 2015 peer-reviewed study found ""compelling evidence that the use of realistic controllers can have a significant effect on the level of cognitive aggression."" [118] Two teenagers in Tennessee who shot at passing cars and killed one driver told police they got the idea from playing Grand Theft Auto III. [49] Bruce Bartholow, professor of psychology at the University of Missouri, spoke about the effects of simulating violence: ""More than any other media, these [violent] video games encourage active participation in violence. From a psychological perspective, video games are excellent teaching tools because they reward players for engaging in certain types of behavior. Unfortunately, in many popular video games, the behavior is violence."" [53] A Sep. 2014 peer-reviewed study found that first-person shooter games trained players to have better accuracy in shooting a gun outside the game, and made them more likely to aim for the head. [85] 6. Many perpetrators of mass shootings played violent video games. The teenage shooters in the 1999 Columbine High School massacre of 13 students played violent combat games. [43] Many mass shootings have been carried out by avid video game players: James Holmes in the Aurora, Colorado movie theater shooting (2012); Jared Lee Loughner in the Arizona shooting that injured Rep. Gabby Giffords and killed six others (2011); and Anders Breivik, who killed 77 people in Norway (2011) and admitted to using the game Modern Warfare 2 for training. [53] An FBI school shooter threat assessment stated that a student who makes threats of violence should be considered more credible if he or she also spends ""inordinate amounts of time playing video games with violent themes."" [25] 7. The American Psychological Association (APA) lists violent video games as a risk factor for aggressive behavior. In its Aug. 2015 resolution on violent video games, the APA wrote: ""WHEREAS many factors are known to be risk factors for increased aggressive behavior, aggressive cognition and aggressive affect, and reduced prosocial behavior, empathy and moral engagement, and violent video game use is one such risk factor."" [119] Dr. Craig Anderson, PhD, Director of the Center for the Study of Violence at Iowa State University, wrote: ""Playing a violent video game isn't going to take a healthy kid who has few other risk factors and turn him into a school shooter, but it is a risk factor that does drive the odds for aggression up significantly."" [120] 8. There is broad consensus among medical associations, pediatricians, parents, and researchers that violent video games increase aggressive behavior. [74] A 2014 study published in Psychology of Popular Media Culture found that 90% of pediatricians and 67% of parents agreed or strongly agreed that violent video games can increase aggressive behavior among children. [75]. More than 98% of pediatricians in the United States say that too much exposure to violent media heightens childhood aggression. [62] In addition, 66% of researchers agreed or strongly agreed. Since only 17% of researchers disagreed or strongly disagreed, and 17% were undecided, the study concluded ""That means that among researchers who have an opinion, eight out of 10 agree that violent games increase aggression."" [75] A joint statement by six leading national medical associations, including the American Medical Association and American Psychological Association, stated: ""Well over 1,000 studies - including reports from the Surgeon General's office, the National Institute of Mental Health, and numerous studies conducted by leading figures within our medical and public health organizations - our own members - point overwhelmingly to a causal connection between media violence and aggressive behavior in some children."" [33] And so now I await the PRO's argument."	CON	45
45	S78239cf0-A6f78bf7d	Emulators For Video Games Are Illegal	"There are many gamers and developers alike that argue that using emulators to download and play video games is illegal, unethical, and a form of piracy. I would like to argue that while using emulators to download ROM's in order to play said games is illegal, it is normal and legal to use an emulator to download ROM's only for video games that have been officially discontinued by both the manufacturers and the retailers. It is also not considered a form of piracy as most people think. Emulators themselves are not illegal to use, as many of the games that people play on the Nintendo Wii, Nintendo 3DS, Nintendo Wii U, PlayStation 3, PlayStation Vita, Xbox 360, Xbox One, and mobile devices all use emulators to play those old games. But downloading ROM's is though. Even though that is the case, this is different as the video games that are being downloaded for the sake of this debate are video games that have been discontinued long ago, such as NES, SNES, and N64 games. I am trying to argue that games that are still continuing such as the Wii, PS3, and Xbox 360 are illegal to emulate while those that aren't are legal to download. Emulating in its very nature is not illegal as many mobile developers are able to make emulators of older games and ""sell"" them on smart-phones and tablets without getting in trouble by the mobile companies or the companies that owned those games. Why? Simply because emulators are not illegal and are perfectly legal to use. And if downloading ROM's are certainly illegal, then why aren't those that show tutorials or videos to brag to others not have their videos and accounts taken down? Why aren't the game developers intervening to take legal action against them? And what about those that admit to such ""crimes"" and even unintentionally have evidence of committing such ""crimes""? Why aren't they getting arrested and charged? As for piracy, emulating video games is considered piracy because you are basically getting them for free without the developer's consent and using material that was already copied. Yes, it may be piracy, but that applies only to video games that are still being supported through retailers and the manufacturers, and not with the games that aren't. If it is no longer sold through stores, how can it be considered stealing if there is no longer any opportunity to steal it in the first place? One may also argue that emulating is not only illegal, unethical, and piracy, but also violates the copyrights given to the video games. But since they are no longer supported and were already copied in the first place by the people who originally emulated it to be emulated by others on the internet, how does the copyright even matter by now? And if one has already owned the copy before emulating it, then the copyright is technically void as they have already paid for the video games."	CON	46
46	S75fbfa8d-Ae75be46f	Violent video games, banning of	The logic is that kids are goanna grow up and be the adults one day so if you look at the bigger picture then think about what is best for everyone long term and that is not exposing young people to violent video games and them normalising it in there heads. In the game grand theft auto the player can decapitate police officers, kill them with a sniper rifle, massacre them with a chainsaw, and set them on fire should people of any age be taking pleasure in doing this in a game I think not. I have just given you examples of video games pushing people into committing violent crimes. None of these people were in the correct mental state but it was the video games that showed them how to do what they did. It is very hard for many parents to stop there children to playing violent video games with friends and older sibling who will play these video games with and there is a lot of pressure in schools to play these games therefore people feel like they have to play it to feel accepted in schools it is very easy to play these games at a friends house or borrow the game or I have encountered people selling these games to there friends in school. But if the government puts a ban on these games then they will slowly start to not play it. Violence as entertainment is simply immoral, if society wants to stop violence then why use entertainment to glorify it this is just a mixed message. How many more people have to die before we just our common sense and stop people playing violent video games, tell me this, what good does it do?!?! And no I do not want to ban water because water does good the human race would struggle to live with out water but the human race could quite happily live with out violent video games corrupting the minds of people.	PRO	47
47	S65056c6e-Add520219	Video Games is Ruining Society	"Thanks for the topic!!! I'll negate the Resolved, that Video Games Are Ruining Society. ==Definitions/BOP== Princeton's Wordnet defines ""ruin"" as ""destroy completely; damage irreparably."" http://www.definitions.net... My opponent must show that video games have irreparably damaged society or destroyed it completely. This is a higher burden of proof than merely showing that video games, on balance, are bad. ==Intro== I will show positive effects of video games and rebut my opponent's inevitable arguments that they are bad. http://www.msnbc.msn.com... Let's get started!"	CON	48
48	S65056c6e-Ab3759ad7	Video Games is Ruining Society	"Thank you for your rebuttal. However, I would like to point out that the rules state that in Round 2, the debaters shall make their case. However, along with making your case, you decided to criticize my statements. This is due in Round 3 as Cross- Examination. This being the C/E round, I will make criticism of your work. ""My opponent claims all video games cause violence, but offers only two examples."" Your accusation is partly false when you say that ""all video games cause violence,"" I said here that video games influence violence. The subject was also ""Teen violence in RELATION to video games."" You're saying that I'm claiming that every single video game including ""Hello Kitty: Happy Party Pals"" causes violence, which is very outrageous. Here are ten more cases of deaths caused by video games (1) and I'm sure that they're are many more. ""Video game playing is not anti-social behavior. ""Almost 60 percent of frequent gamers play with friends. Thirty-three percent play with siblings and 25 percent play with spouses or parents."""" You are saying that just because gamers play video games with friends and family that they are not anti-social. Well a study has been made that people who play video games more often have a more poorer relationship with family and friends. (2) The study also shows that people who play video games daily are three times more likely to smoke pot that people who have not played before. (2) ""Most studies on video game violence are flawed because they study groups of kids who are already predisposed to violence and thus find extremely violent games INTRIGUING."" Intriguing - Arouse the curiosity or interest of; fascinate (3) If you find football intriguing, then you would want to try it out. Now switch football with violence. Enough said about that. ""In fact, Halo 3 may be a safer addiction than the other things these addictive types might get addicted to."" So just because it is safer, it's not going to do any harm. That's like saying that jumping off a bridge with protective equipment is safer than jumping off a bridge naked. ""However, the breakdown is more like 10% are ""at risk of addiction"" and 2 percent are fully addicted to video games."" The statistic is not proven. 8.5% of U.S. youth are addicted to video games. (4) I could not check your reference for your claim that 2% of people are addicted. Your reference just shows a person, a newspaper, and a date. ""Just because a few individuals abuse something to the point where it becomes an addiction DOES NOT prove that that product is ""ruining society."""" I beg to differ. imagine the people who are addicted to video games that instead of playing ""Halo"" work to be medical workers or successful politicians who help their country. Maybe one of the addicts could have been the person who cured AIDS that have been spread around by sex addicts. Maybe one of the addicts could have run for president instead of the idiot who ran the country to the ground or dare I say ""ruins."" ""John Gabrieli, a neuroscientist at MIT, has concluded that the adaptive difficulty of video games makes people keep playing and learning, when a normal person would quit, by sucking the player in, providing rewards for continuing, and only ramping up the difficulty as the game progresses."" Learn what? How to ""no scope"" your opponent in Halo? Vote Pro 1. http://www.spike.com... 2. http://blogs.wsj.com... 3. http://www.google.com... 4. http://www.joystiq.com..."	PRO	49
49	Sfb8c8cc0-Ab1eff7ac	video games are educational	I now that the things that you can lean in video games are not thing you need to learn in life but most people didn't now that the DSR was a sniper rifle until Call of Duty, I agree that not all video games are educational, like halo but i say most video games are educational, Take assassin's creed, all assassin's creed games are based on real events in real life.	PRO	50
50	S65056c6e-A40757a23	Video Games is Ruining Society	"Thanks for the quick reply rsgather! My opponent started the previous round by complaining that I rebutted already. To me, cross-examination means a questioning period and ""cases"" often include rebuttals, as is the case in Lincoln-Douglas debate. He should be clearer next time if he wants all rebuttal arguments reserved for later. ==Here is my rebuttal of his Round 3== R1) 10 more examples Originally, I criticized my opponent for only providing two examples of video games leading to death. He provides a source that contains ""ten more deaths"" attributed to video games. Let's look briefly through these: Example 10 is someone playing StarCraft for too long and dying from exhaustion – possibly video game related, although also stupidity related. Example 9 is someone with an undiagnosed heart condition who merely happened to die while playing an arcade game; people with undiagnosed heart conditions more often die while playing sports, but anything that leads to adrenaline release would do it; NOT CAUSED BY VIDEO GAMES. Example 8 – someone borrowed his friend's game and sold his virtual sword for $675; his friend stabbed him in retaliation. The death was related to a theft, albeit a virtual one, but virtual property can be worth tens of thousands of dollars. NOT CAUSED BY VIDEO GAMES. Example 7 – someone committed suicide while Everquest just happened to be on; even the article says NOT CAUSED BY VIDEO GAMES. Example 6 – a highly confused 13-year-old thought his video game characters were real and jumped off a 24-story building so he could meet them; small children have also drowned trying to meet SpongeBob. This, also, cannot be directly attributed to video games, but instead to a highly deranged child who needed better supervision. Example 5 – ok, video game related. 13-year-old kills 81-year-old for video game money. Example 4 – autopsy found that the father had physically abused his toddler daughter many times previously, but he ultimately killed her after she broke his Xbox. Video game related, although, again, this individual was highly disturbed. Example 3 – Daniel Patric, already refuted. More gun-related than video game related. Example 2 – the murder weapon was a video game controller, but other than that, video games were not a motivation for the murder. Example 1 – GTA inspired cop-killing spree. Video game related, although, again, carried out by a highly disturbed individual. So out of the 10 examples, only 4 were truly related to video games, any more than tangentially. The examples all have many things in common as well – all were HIGHLY disturbed individuals already; many of them were drunk at the time, like the abusive father, and many involved handguns. These 10 examples prove that there are psychopaths, so possibly our society needs to raise its children better (our schools, values, and parents are ruining society, possibly). Also, potentially alcohol and guns are ruining society. My opponent also never answers the PBS evidence that although video games have exploded in use over the last 30 years, juvenile crime rates are at a 30-year low. This completely refutes my opponent's argument when we look at the big picture. R2) Are video games anti-social? Even if they are, this doesn't prove they are ruining society. In addition, my opponent's study finds the obvious – people who played excessive hours of video games had suffering social relations. Since time is limited, it seems fairly obvious that the more time someone spends gaming, the less time they spend with family or friends. However, the vast majority of gamers are not extreme addicts, but are casual users. The PBS source says the average boy plays 8 hours a week of video games; the average girl plays 4 hours. This is moderate use. In addition, it's just selection bias. Kids who are ALREADY anti-social have nothing better to do than play video games. In fact, extend the Nick Yee study that says if you already have extreme social anxiety, playing online MMORPG's actually makes you more likely to interact with people face-to-face. Video games help the socially awkward engage MORE socially, providing an outlet that lets them get over some of their fears. R3) Smoking pot My opponent cites a study that people who play video games every day are more likely to smoke pot. However, he never explains how a video game forces you to smoke pot. Correlation does not equal causation. This also turns his social argument. Only social kids can smoke pot since they have to know the right people in order to acquire it, meaning they have a social network. So gamers tend to be MORE social than non-gamers. Lastly, no evidence is provided that smoking pot is bad. R4) Safer addictions My opponent says that jumping off a bridge with pads is safer than without pads. That's fine – if you HAD to jump off the bridge, you'd want pads, or a bungee cord. Addictive personality types HAVE to satisfy their addictive personality in some way. Halo 3 is vastly superior in this respect to cocaine, for example. This argument still stands. R5) 8.5% are addicted to video games My opponent's own source takes issue with the study cited, saying it defines addiction too broadly (for example, saying you would rather play video games than do homework is considered addictive behavior). Ultimately, HIS source concludes, ""Using these criteria, we've been addicted to the following at some point in our lives: Pokï¿½mon cards, Pogs, Skittles, Spelling Bees, laser tag, gardening, dating, Lego bricks, Frisbee golf and blogging. Yet somehow, despite our multitude of unshakable, soul-crushing dependencies, we turned out just fine."" My Washington Post evidence used a different poll to break down the statistics, having a much higher bar for being truly addicted, and found closer to 2% were fully addicted to video games. Regardless, my opponent's own source shows that if kids aren't addicted to video games, they'd just be addicted to something else that's fun. R6) Video game addicts could become president This is essentially my opponent's argument – that video games addicts could do great things. The problem with this is that people with extremely addictive personalities are unlikely to do well in life because they just replace one addiction with another. The second problem is that society is far from completely destroyed simply because a tiny fraction of its citizens are addicted to something and are thus, less productive. ==On to my case and all the dropped arguments== 1. Video game violence My opponent drops most of my evidence here. He drops the PBS evidence that although video games have exploded in use over the last 30 years, juvenile violent crime rates are at a 30 year low. This completely disproves that video games lead to more violence in society. My opponent drops the University of Illinois longitudinal study that followed video gamers and a control group and found that gamers did not exhibit more violence or irritation in their social relationships. He drops the Surgeon General's report (2001) that the greatest predictors of school shootings are mental stability and home life, NOT video game use. Notice ALL of my opponent's examples of deaths caused by video games were usually people who were BOTH mentally unstable AND had bad home lives. Lastly, and most importantly for this point, he drops the turn. The Scott Cunningham study concluded that juvenile violence rates are at a 30-year low BECAUSE OF video games; violent individuals use fantasy, rather than reality, as an outlet for their violent urges. This is a good thing. 2. Addiction My opponent doesn't have a great response to my analysis that addictive personalities can get addicted to anything. Just because something leads to addiction doesn't make it bad (see sex). There is nothing INHERENT to video games that makes them addictive, unlike cigarettes which contain nicotine. If someone gets addicted, that's their fault. 3. Video games are good My opponent drops every single argument here, except to smirk at the Gabrieli evidence. Extend the Mitch Wade evidence; he is an information consultant for RAND Corp. and Google and he says that video gamers have better problem solving ability, better team play, and better and more careful risk-taking than non-gamers. His book, ""Got Game,"" argues that video games are central to training the work force of tomorrow. The John Gabrieli evidence points out that video games are a GREAT way to keep people engaged in a learning process, since they have adaptive difficulty. I talked about how teachers use games like Civilization and other video games to demonstrate various concepts in World History and International Relations. The Shawn Green study found that gamers have better hand-eye coordination, better peripheral vision, and better visuo-motor skills than non-gamers. The Daphne Bavelier studies found that ""video gamers show improved skills in vision, attention and . . . cognition. And these skills are not just gaming skills, but real-world skills. They perform better than non-gamers on . . . tests of attention, speed, accuracy, vision and multitasking."" This answers my opponent's objection that video game skills do not transfer to real world skills. Not only does Mitch Wade find that video gamers do better in business, but Daphne Bavelier finds that on non-video game tasks, gamers have more concentration, greater speed and accuracy, and better multi-tasking skills, all of which translate to great success in life. Every single argument I have mentioned here was dropped by my opponent so this should be a clear Con victory. Thank you."	CON	51
51	S45462ad0-A2d50369c	Can video games be healthy	"I was not able to post in round 4 because I was conveying information in the best way possible, here is my argument Here are 7 ways video games can benefit your health Your parents may have tried to kick you off your Super Nintendo just about every time you sat down in front of it because they were concerned about how it might affect your long-term health. Plenty of studies have shown that games that don't require a lot of physical movement can have an adverse effect on children as they grow older. But perhaps counter-intuitively, there have also been several studies touting the health benefits of gaming. 1. Video games are therapeutic for children with chronic illnesses The University of Utah released a study last year that examined the effects of regular gaming on children diagnosed with illnesses like autism, depression, and Parkinson's disease. Kids who played certain games, including one designed just for the study, showed signs of improvement in ""resilience, empowerment, and a 'fighting spirit.'"" Researchers believe the games' ability to act on ""neuronal mechanisms that activate positive emotions and the reward system"" helped improve kids' demeanors as they faced the daily challenges of their illnesses. 2. Video games improve preschoolers' motor skills Letting a 4-year-old sit in front of a TV with a game controller might not seem like the most productive use of her time. But researchers from Deakin University in Melbourne, Australia, would disagree. Their study examined the development of 53 preschool-aged children, and found that those who played ""interactive games"" had better ""object control motor skills"" than those who didn't. It's not clear, though, whether children with better-than-average motor skills tend to gravitate toward video games in the first place. 3. Video games reduce stress and depression 2009's Annual Review of Cybertherapy and Telemedicine included a study that found that gamers who suffered from mental health issues such as stress and depression were able to vent their frustration and aggression by playing video games "" and showed a noted improvement. The study hypothesized that games gave certain ""Type A"" personalities time to relax in ""a state of relative mindlessness"" that allowed them to avoid reaching ""a certain level of stressful arousal"" as they tried to relax. 4. Video games provide pain relief Video games don't just provide relief from emotional pain. They can also help those who are suffering from physical pain. Psychologists at the University of Washington developed a game that helps hospital patients suffering from immense physical pain by using an age-old mental trick: distraction. The virtual reality game ""Snow World"" put patients in an arctic wonderland in which they throw an endless arsenal of snowballs at a series of targets, such as penguins and snowmen. Military hospitals found the experience helped soldiers recovering from their battlefield wounds. The soldiers who played ""Snow World"" required less pain medicine during their recuperation. 5. Video games can improve your vision Mom may have warned you that sitting in front of the TV wasn't good for your eyes. But one developmental psychologist found it could actually be beneficial to your vision. Dr. Daphen Maurer of the Visual Development Lab of Ontario's McMaster University made a surprising discovery: People suffering from cataracts can improve their vision by playing first-person shooter games like Medal of Honor and Call of Duty. She believes these games are so fast-paced that they require an extreme amount of attention, training the visually impaired to view things more sharply. They can also produce higher levels of dopamine and adrenaline that ""potentially may make the brain more plastic,"" she said. 6. Video games improve your decision-making skills Most video games require fast reactions and split-second decisions that can mean the difference between virtual life and virtual death. Cognitive neuroscientists at the University of Rochester in New York found these games give players' brains plenty of practice for making decisions in the real world. Researchers suggest that action-oriented games act as a simulator for the decision-making process by giving players several chances to infer information from their surroundings and forcing them to react accordingly. 7. Video games keep you happy in old age Researchers from North Carolina State University looked closely at our aging population to see if there was a link between playing video games and mental well-being "" i.e. ""happiness."" They found that senior citizens who said they played video games "" even occasionally "" reported ""higher levels of happiness, or well-being,"" says Rick Nauert at PsychCentral. ""Those who did not play video games reported more negative emotions"" and were more likely to be depressed. It's unclear what exactly is behind this link "" or if the relationship is even causal."	PRO	52
52	Se55cb0cf-A13093202	Video Games Are Art	"You've certainly done a fine job defending video games as art... off the wrong definition. You have essentially equated artistic expression in video games to the mechanical process of creation akin to a book you'd buy called ""The Art of Cooking"" to help teach you how to make food. I am explicitly talking about art by the definition of expressing the imagination and abstract ideas through the form of artistic mediums such as music, movies, and novels. These are two completely different definitions and while, yes, video games are ""art"" in the way you describe it, that definition is no different than words such as ""method"", ""process"", ""how to"", and more - nothing about expression, but everything about objectively instructing you on how to get a job done. If anything you have demonstrated that video games are art through the intensive level of labor, care, and skill that goes into ensuring that every part works and makes sense - which helps reinforce my first point, surprisingly. What ultimately discredits video games as being considered an artistic medium is the fact that the elements which make a given game ""artistic"" in the eyes of many are elements which do not belong to video games exclusively. Not only that, but the one element that sets video games apart from other mediums carries little to no expressive opportunity. Take music, for example. It claims sound as its own unique trait for expression while vocalists write lyrics to help create a story to accompany a piece. Here we see how music and writing come together to create an artistic piece. However, music does not explicitly require a vocalist or lyrics to be expressive and artistic - as sound from instruments alone can construct entire narratives, worlds, and emotions on noise alone. For another example, film has visual movement as its own unique element. And while most films will be found including story or a soundtrack to tie those moving images together, film can express abstract ideas through camera angles, shot composition, and color. Other expressive mediums are limited in their ability to do this, as they do not have the privilege of tangible movement in their mediums. As for video games, the one element that sets games apart from other mediums is player input and control. In lets say, an adventure game, you manipulate the movement of the game's main character to navigate levels and get to the end of a game. Your own method of playing and experience, depending on the game, can change dramatically from how another person played the game due to our own unique inputs manipulating the end result of the said game. And unfortunately, that is all that video games can claim as their own unique element. Video games, especially those which many prop up as examples that the medium has artistic value, rely heavily on visuals, sound, and story to present abstract ideas and concepts since, simply put, there isn't a lot you can get out of expecting a play to press the X button at a certain point in a game. Ultimately, we praise video games on merits that video games do not claim as their own. And unlike a film where music and writing can service moving imagery to improve the meaning its creating - sound, writing, and visuals cannot service player control to enhance expression. It is the other away around. You have given credit to an aspect of video games that we, as audiences, cannot even see. The process of coding and design is skill and work that ultimately dooms video games as being accepted as an art form because, when discounting the elements of sound, imagery, and writing which are not exclusive to video games, it implies that video games can only be appreciated through a very objectively done job that audiences aren't aware of or don't even care for. Meanwhile, their appreciation is handed out to aspects of a game that you can easily find by picking up a book or watching a movie. Such as the Metal Gear Solid franchise, where eventually, the amount of cut scenes and scripted in-game events that map out each game in the series found itself being longer and overshadowing the gameplay itself. Yet you will never see anyone talk about how the gameplay itself helped cement the massive amount of themes and ideas that Kojima built up in his magnum opus. There are a few games I'd consider capable of presenting the element of player input and control as something of artistic value, instead of being there by obligation as a game to instead prop up elements borrowed from other mediums. Games such as Undertale and Hotline Miami, which use long established conventions in video games to deliver interesting stories and criticisms of the said conventions they borrow, deconstruct the nature of player control and movement by heavily breaking down the confides of their own games. Undertale emphasizes 'consequences by our actions' with a system that tracks the actions you made across multiple playthroughs and eventually, and mind the spoilers, finds your player killing the game's files themselves if you stray too far down a morally dark path - a method that has never really been seen before in a game. Hotline Miami, on the other hand, delivers a criticism on violence in video games and the pointlessness of delivering a moral in a game that would rather occupy your time with 'no questions asked' violence. The game structuring itself as a combo heavy, violent, and neon-hazy shoot them up plays into the story of a game that asks you important questions about what you're doing and why... and then eventually mocks you for trying to figure it out when clearly you were just there for the few hours of violent thrill. Other games such as Portal and even BioShock, too find themselves using elements of player control to create stories with very important and poignant morals that otherwise would not have any effect if told through other mediums. Yet, not only are these examples only a few out of thousands upon thousands of games. They are also rarely, if ever, included in discussions for games that ""prove"" that games are art. On top of that, nearly every single one of them when discounting Portal can only ever seem to deconstruct or criticize long standing elements of games that ironically limit video games ability to do far more on its own unique merits. Which brings games back to square one in showing that, as an art form, they are entirely limited or incapable of showing expressive meaning and artistic merits without borrowing elements from other mediums and almost always playing those said elements straight without player input contributing to them... or vice versa. To summarize basically. The most appreciated qualities in games being propped up as artistic are qualities that are exclusive to other mediums and are borrowed for video games. The merits of player control that video games claim as their own unique quality are either extremely limited or incapable of enhancing the elements video games borrow to create more amazing and expressive themes and ideas. The few games I provided examples for as being undoubtedly artistic could only ever deconstruct and call fact to the limited nature of video games and artistic expression, which hilariously puts them back at square one for proving games can be an art form."	CON	53
53	S1774917c-A7b41da04	Video Games Are Bad For Children	"I personally believe that video games are a good source of fun for kids. Kids learn a lot of lifelong skill from video games such as teamwork, logic, problem solving, and sometimes the video games might call for kids to get up and move. Such as Arms (2017) or Just Dance (2014), ""And protect your brain from different conditions, like depression, Alzheimer's disease or dementia."" -Wendy Suzuki (a Neuroscientist and author to see her full Ted talk visit https://www.ted.com...) Even if kids don't move video games still have benefits as I previously mentioned. Players also must have patience and focus and with time those skills increase, in some cases video games have been reported to increase attention spans. In recent studies, it has been found that gamers adopt a high concentration attitude, and don't realize they are learning. If the same attitude could be adopted at school education could have great benefits, many students ""learn by doing"" when playing video games and fostering creative thinking."	PRO	54
54	S2120845c-A718aad24	Video games can be good.	"I thank con for accepting this argument. Now to begin, I would like to point out the title, which is ""Video game can be good."". Keep in mind the word ""can"". What does can mean? Can is ""Used to indicate possibility or probability"" [1]. Basically, implying the possibility of something to do or be something. Though in some instances, video games may be bad, they CAN be good. So we also need to understand what a video game is. A video game is ""any of various games that can be played by using an electronic control to move points of light or graphical symbols on the screen of a visual display unit"" [2] So any game or activity using electronics is considered a video game. So let us look at a variety of games that are good. Good for children, education, entertainment etc. To start off, one game almost all of us have at least played once, Tetris. Tetris is a video game where you place shapes that are falling specifically in order to fit them all. When the blocks past the top, you lose. In this game, you need to estimate the ideal area to place the shape, in such a short time. This game promotes quick thinking, problem solving, and geometry. In the end, it can aid children in all these areas, making the game good. [3] Then there is also Minecraft. A very popular game, where you craft things, make mines, building etc. This game challenges creativity, while giving a fun entertaining way of game play. This fun game tests creativity, survival skills. Also, players make a variety of strategies. For example, they try to find the ideal layer under the ground to find specific things, such as gold and diamonds. This game tests creativity, strategy, and more, making it another good video game. This video game is good. [4] And let's not forget the huge amounts of online math games. These games help children improve there math skills, in a fun visual way. There are plenty of these on the internet. So in all these cases, video games are good. Video games can be good. This is what I am in favour of. So it is possible for video games to be be good. In conclusion, video games CAN be good. sources: 1.http://www.thefreedictionary.com... 2.http://www.thefreedictionary.com... 3.http://en.wikipedia.org... 4.http://en.wikipedia.org..."	PRO	55
55	S6812fbe6-A63f1232b	Video Games are an art form.	This is an intresting debate, and I like your point of view, so here we go. A good movie, book, or picture are all art forms. Created by a person of group, these things can represent ideals, beliefs, ways of thinking, and choice. Art is human. From cave paintings to the Mona Lisa, art has impacted humanity in all sorts of ways. Video games can fulfill these same things, so why is it that video games are not considered an art form? Well, it comes down to a few things. A: Video Games have Goals Whether you are playing the campaign on Halo: Reach or fighting other players on Modern Warfare, video games have goals. Achieve this goal, run to this checkpoint, capture this flag, defeat your opponent. This, in essence, is how a video game is played: the accomplishment of these goals. Without these goals, a video game is nothing, an area to walk around. Do other art forms have a goal? See who can watch the movie the fastest, pay the most attention to the ballet, count how many people are in this picture? No, that is not what art is. Art is meant to be interpreted to the viewer or listener, and let that person decide how to feel based off that art form. One must achieve the goals of a video game, and thus cannot interpret the game for themselves. B: Deliberation Consider the art forms today. Literature, music, dancing, paintings, etc. These things have many things in common, but one aspect is usually overlooked: they have to be created deliberatly. Music has been around since man started eating beans, paintings since the blood of an animal accidently splashed on a wall, dance since a swarm of bees started to sting a man trying to steal honey, and and lierature as man took the sounds he heard and tried to record them so others could 'hear' it. Video games cannot happen randomly as these other art forms can. Instead, it takes years of work from a group of people to accomplish their goal of creating something entertaining. C: Creators of Art Excluding video games, all of the art forms listed in our debate have one thing in common: they were created by either a single person or a single group and one is left to interpret the art. Video games are not so. One can change the surroundings of a video game, interact with others, and affect a storyline. All other forms of art are created and then left alone for its enjoyers to interpret for themselves. By allowing the gamers to affect how the video game is played, it basically defeats the purpose of the creators creating an art form. As you can see, video games may be considered an art with music, storylines, and graphics. To anyone who doesn't think about it, it could be considered an art form. Unfortunatly for myself, as a lover of video games, and the video-gaming community, it isn't an art form. The fact that one can interact with it does not make it an art, in fact it could keep it from being an art. By making the gamers conform to a set way of interpreting the game, i.e. achieveing goals and getting passed levels, it takes away the ability of the gamer to interpret the game for themselves. And, if it weren't for the creators deliberating creating the game, there would be no game, for nature does not allow video games to be created randomly. So thus, because of all the reason stated, video games are not an art form and I urge the voters to vote Con.	CON	56
56	Sbd51665d-A7af6b315	Video games are for loser Nerds	Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh, this is where you mess up. You have fallen into my logic trap. You see, ONLY Nerds play video games, so cool kids like me dont play video games because they are too busy playing BOOTY games. IMO this article for evidence of statistic http://hubpages.com... Therefore, if all but nerds get booty and are too busy earning cash and booty to play stupid games, that means the only people left with time to play video games are filthy nerds.	PRO	57
57	S60e33950-A28c959e8	Video Games Are Too Violent	"In video games such as Call of Duty, Gears of War and Saints Row, the main goal is to kill or be killed. How are these violent video games affecting the minds of children? One gamer was asked if they liked violent video games, his response was "" Yes because I have started to feel the urge to practice my sniper skills for real."" A child who plays violent video games starts looking at the world as a dangerous place where violence and aggression are an appropriate response, more than a child would who hasn't had that exposure. Young children also try to copy the actions they have observed while playing video games. These actions or gestures are stored in their memories and children do feel the urge to try them out in their real lives on their siblings and in school, thus increasing the bullying tendencies. Non-violent games can prove to be a great teaching tool and they can be used for educational purposes. They also improve the hand-eye co-ordination. So, parents should try to convince their children to play such games and divert their attention from violence."	PRO	58
58	Sd761a450-A60ea1a15	Video games are art	An art piece is a creative work created to be appreciated for its beauty or emotional power (1). While it is possible for a video game to be art, the majority of video games do not fit this criterion. My opponent has stated that many video games use graphics and modelling to create beauty. In this case, however, it is important to distinguish between design and art; art is to be appreciated for its beauty, while design is intended to facilitate something else. In this case, the design, such as graphics, of a video game is not primarily intended to be beautiful, but rather to create an environment in which the player can be entertained, making it design rather than art. Furthermore, not all video games need to use beautiful graphics; a barebones video game can consist of using coloured blocks as sprites. This is because video game graphics are intended to facilitate entertainment, and they do not need to be art in order to fulfill their purpose. It is possible to create a video game that is not art. A pong game, for instance, does not focus on graphics and beauty; its primary goal is to entertain, and its entertainment comes not because it looks good, but because it presents a challenge for the player to solve. Any computer program that entertains people by presenting a challenge is a video game, and beauty or emotional power are not necessary to presenting an entertaining challenge. As a result of the previous arguments, it is clear that video games are not necessarily art. Citations https://en.oxforddictionaries.com...	CON	59
59	Sa7073d00-A3feede99	Video games are an innocent hobby!	"First, thank you for posting this. It is an honor to oppose your statement. I agree with some of your statements. Video games tackle obesity in a progressive way lately and true, they can be a hobby. I negate although with the following point: Disadvantage 1 The Uniqueness Currently video games have been around for nearly thirty years. In that time they have evolved into many different progressions from their humble bad-pixled roots. Children are more likely to commit the actions of a character in a video game, video games require active participation, repetition promotes inclusion and finally video games are based on a solid reward system (you shoot someone, you are praised, don't and you are shot yourself). Needless to say this is not an act of violence in all games, but some do. The most commonly used would be Grand Theft Auto where games are targeted at children ages 13 and up to shoot, steal, kill, etc. These are not just people often, they're police officers. The Solvency Restrict video game use via the venders. I'm not going to press this seeing as I'm neg, but it couldn't hurt. You say that video games are an ""innocent hobby."" First on the word innocent, shooting people who ARE innocent is not harmless. Inciting violence is not something that is alongside playing chess or debating which are much closer to the definition. Second, the word hobby is not necessarily true. Video games are careers for some and they make good money. Pushed into that is the influence of money in the rewards system and the essence that school doesn't matter as much as getting to level five. You do not solve. You just make the situation worse. You don't have a plan to institute the stability of video games and your point goes no where, but where it is, leaving us with the impacts which leads me to... The Impacts 1. Video games kill. The incitement of violence takes it to far. Kids can name characters off real people, and shoot them in a surreal world. It warps young minds of their own reality. 2. You can claim that video games like the wii are making a head start in ridding the world of obesity, but really does that get rid the problem originally caused by things like television and video games? I have played the wii, and frankly you can do it sitting down pretty easily. I have also played DDR and the eye-toy and though they make progress it is not as rewarding as running or playing a sport in the arena of obesity. It causes it. 3. You say that this boosts our connections but again as I said before, not as much as other activities. This is a surreal world in which people pretend to be someone they aren't. If anything, this disconects you from the real world much much more than it would ever connect you. To conclude, Video games cause violence, the obesity you claim to prevent, and a surreal disconnection from the real world leading to the loss of lives and in all, the downfall of a global village."	CON	60
60	Sd5fac21c-Ac314b41a	Video Games Are Good for You	"I'd first like to outline that my opponent's sources are structured unclearly, as he hasn't cited any particular point. This is bad practice. Negative Case P1: Video games promote violence. This isn't a well researched topic, but there are a significant number of studies that strongly allude to detrimental effects directly from playing video games, particularly violent games. The 2008 study Grand Theft Childhood reported that 60% of middle school boys who played at least one Mature-rated game hit or beat up someone, compared to 39% of boys that did not play Mature-rated games. [1] Moreover, a 2009 study found that it takes up to four minutes for the level of aggressive thoughts and feelings in children to return to normal after playing violent video games. It takes five to ten minutes for heart rate and aggressive behavior to return to baseline. Video games that show the most blood generate more aggressive thoughts. When blood is present in video games, there is a measurable increase in arousal and hostility. [2] And finally, Exposure to violent video games is linked to lower empathy in players. In a 2004 study of 150 fourth and fifth graders by Professor Jeanne Funk, violent video games were the only type of media associated with lower empathy. Empathy, the ability to understand and enter into another's feelings, plays an important role in the process of moral evaluation and is believed to inhibit aggressive behavior. [3] These worrying studies show a clear correlation hinting at a causal link between violent games and violence, and it's not difficult to figure out why. [1] Lawrence Kutner and Cheryl K. Olsen, Grand Theft Childhood: The Surprising Truth about Violent Video Games and What Parents Can Do, Apr. 2008 [2] Christopher Barlett, Richard Harris, and Callie Bruey, ""The Effect of the Amount of Blood in a Violent Video Game on Aggression, Hostility, and Arousal,"" Journal of Experimental Social Psychology, Oct. 2007 [3] Jeanne Funk, Heidi Bechtoldt Baldacci, Tracie Pasold, and Jennifer Baumgardner, ""Violence Exposure in Real-life, Video Games, Television, Movies, and the Internet: Is There Desensitization?,"" Journal of Adolescence, 2004 P2: Staying seated is bad for your health. To play video games, especially for long periods, as most gamers do, one usually remains seated. This can be a driver of serious health issues. A review completed earlier this year concluded that ""Prolonged sedentary time was independently associated with deleterious health outcomes regardless of physical activity."" [1] This is a result reciprocated by a number of notable studies. Another line of study found a strong link between television viewing and mortality rates, concluding: ""Television viewing time was associated with increased risk of all-cause and CVD mortality. In addition to the promotion of exercise, chronic disease prevention strategies could focus on reducing sitting time, particularly prolonged television viewing. "" [2] Finally a 2011 study found that ""Recreational sitting, as reflected by television/screen viewing time, is related to raised mortality and CVD risk regardless of physical activity participation. Inflammatory and metabolic risk factors partly explain this relationship."" [3] [1] http://annals.org... [2] http://circ.ahajournals.org... [3] http://www.sciencedirect.com... Conclusion I've brought up two significant detrimental consequences of playing video games and supported them with reliable data and studies."	CON	61
61	Sf888e5a8-A55a61640	Video Games are Sports	"It is a controversial topic that sparks feuds from both sides of the coin; are video games really sports? However, many fail to note a plethora of points and concepts that more than confirm the idea that video games sports. The definition of sports, although varying with different diction and colloquialism across many textbooks, is ""a game played either as recreation or competition."" The argument is not semantics. Just as you can hunt game for sport, you can play video games as a sport. Whether it is physically taxing or not is irrelevant - as an example, the game of chess is widely accepted as a sport, but the game is a battle of not physical, but mental stamina. Those who play the game are indeed ""athletes"" - just not physical athletes - these video game athletes are playing sports. Video games have been gradually becoming accepted as sports, making appearances on sports channels and news worldwide. The professional scene in what is now being referred to as ""eSports"" is no joke - the prize pools for games such as Dota 2 or Halo 5: Guardians have been large, from a wallet-pleasing two million USD to a bank-crushing twenty million USD. These prizes compete with what many professional baseball or basketball players can make in a year; to say that these eSports cannot qualify as ""true sports"" is ludicrous. All around the world, there are many arguing for or against the idea that video games are sports. Only one side is correct. Due to the nature of video games, their current professional standings, and the definition of what a sport really is, it is factual that video games are a sport. Information on eSports prize pools: http://www.esportsearnings.com... Information on physical sport salaries: https://en.wikipedia.org..."	PRO	62
62	Sa4146c4c-A136cd95c	Video Games	Well thanks for inviting me! I think kids should be able to play video games for 30 mins a week.	CON	63
63	S2120845c-Adc56bb1c	Video games can be good.	"Con does not understand what he is in favour of. The debate is entitled ""Video games can be good."" He is favour or video games not being able to be good, or in other words, saying that video games being good is impossible. So all of Con's arguments are irrelevant, since it has nothing to do with video games not being able to be good, but why they are bad. He has not explained how video games are impossible of being good. Rebuttals: ""Video games are very addicted The problem with video games is that they are very addicted and being a addicted to something makes it hard to leave the screen also being close to a screen for a long time can have a negative affect on your eyes. Also some children get very addicted that they stay up to more than 24 hours straight playing games, and it has happened before. Also getting addicted to a game can do harm like it makes a child lazy and more aggressive. But I still think it does not cause crime."" There is no proof backing up this argument. Also, your points have as I said earlier, nothing to do with the possibility of video games being impossible of being good. Not all people are addicted to video games, this is a generalization. The majority of gamers aren't even addicted to these games. ""Studies estimate that 10 percent to 15 percent of gamers exhibit signs that meet the World Health Organization""s criteria for addiction."" [1] Only 10-15 percent of gamers are addicted to video games, that is a very small amount. ""I like Minecraft too but I hate to say it to you that not all things in the game are good for children. Some things in it are not educational. Also children do not depend on survival skills from a video game. Examples on how Minecraft can be bad but I still like it - Very addicting depending on the person - Can affect the mind and intelligence making children think that redstone dust, or zombies are real - It can lead to violence in the game."" Once again, no proof supporting this. And supports much more creativity than it is harmful to the mind. ""You said it was fast playing. Another thing that can effect the mind and cause harm. I like the game but it has been shown that fast animation games can harm human brain cells"" The animation itself is not quick, but the amount of time you have to do things is. In tetris, the animation is actually quite slow, but since you have so little space to move, it seems fast. It supports quick thinking without the use of quick animation. ""Also I would like to point out your resources 3.http://en.wikipedia.org......... 4.http://en.wikipedia.org......... Wikipedia's are not reliable they can be edited"" I used wikipedia because it is just the definition of the game. We all already know what the games are, but I displayed wikipedia for a quick view of the game, created by someone who plays the game. Having sources in the end is better than having none, which is what I have seen in your arguments. You have absolutely no proof supporting your ideas. Also, you are not debating for your side properly. Arguments: In this article, many reasons are displayed explaining how video games can be good. [2] Here is an entry from the article, ""In 2010, researchers presented evidence at the American Pain Society's annual scientific meeting that video games, specifically ones with an emphasis on virtual reality, have proven effective in reducing anxiety or pain caused by medical procedures or chronic illness. The study found that when people undergoing chemotherapy or other serious treatments were immersed in a virtual gaming world, they reported significantly less stress and fear. In addition, those being treated for burn wounds found a decline in their pain ratings by rates of 30 to 50 percent. Referencing the motion sensor technology of the Xbox Kinect or the Wii, Charles Friedman of the Pain Relief Centers said that gaming allows the brain to stay busy using other senses instead of focusing on pain. Gaming also releases endorphins in the brain, a chemical that is generally associated with happiness and capable of numbing discomfort."" As you can see, video games can be a pain reliever, making them good. I am in favour of video games possibly being good. Con is supposed to be in favour of video games being impossible of being good, yet he does not mention about that at all. He is not debating for his side properly. Vote pro! 1.http://www.video-game-addiction.org... 2.http://www.huffingtonpost.com..."	PRO	64
64	S65056c6e-A4e9a7b0d	Video Games is Ruining Society	"Thanks for the quick reply rsgather. ==Burden of proof== My opponent doesn't contest the burden of proof. He agrees that he must show that society is ""destroyed completely"" or ""damaged irreparably."" This is a higher standard than merely showing isolated instances where video games are bad. ==Rebuttal== R1) Video game violence My opponent claims all video games cause violence, but offers only two examples. His first example, from 2004, is when 3 teens got really drunk, started throwing rocks at a homeless man ""for fun,"" and ended up killing him.[1] If anything, blame alcohol. One teen did say that killing the homeless man ""reminded him"" of a video game. If A reminds you of B, that doesn't mean that A forced you to do B. Same fallacy: Blood reminds me of Santa Clause's suit; therefore, Santa is responsible for all my murders. The Daniel Petric example from 2007 is bad; Daniel was obviously a highly disturbed individual. However, it wasn't very smart of his father to lock up his Xbox360 in the same safe as a 9mm handgun and then leave the key somewhere Daniel could find it. [2] If anything, this might prove that handguns are destroying our society. Had Danielle found his Xbox360 and empty air in the safe, it'd be a lot harder to kill his parents with empty air. Various studies show that handguns in the home are more likely to kill a loved one than an intruder. [3] Ultimately, my opponent's case rests on two isolated examples. We should look to broader data to see whether video games have led to more violence: 1. The video game market has exploded over the last 30 years. If video games lead to violence, we should have seen an explosion in youth violence. Federal crime statistics show that juvenile crime rates are at a 30 year low. [4] 2. ""According to a 2001 U.S. Surgeon General's report, the strongest risk factors for school shootings centered on mental stability and the quality of home life, not media exposure."" [4] 3. Video game playing is not anti-social behavior. ""Almost 60 percent of frequent gamers play with friends. Thirty-three percent play with siblings and 25 percent play with spouses or parents."" [4] 4. Video games do not desensitize us to violence. Multiple studies on primates and humans show that we can draw clear distinctions between play/fake fighting and real fighting. [4] 5. The first long-term longitudinal study on video game violence was conducted by two professors from the University of Illinois. [5] Longitudinal studies are superior because they follow the same group (cohort) of kids for a long time period and study *real world* behavior, rather than asking simulated survey questions in a laboratory. The study found that people who played violent video games did not experience more aggression in their real life relationships than a control group that did not play video games; they did not argue more frequently with friends or parents, etc. The study is also superior because it randomly assigned people to the ""play violent video games"" group or control group. Most studies on video game violence are flawed because they study groups of kids who are already predisposed to violence and thus find extremely violent games intriguing. 6. Scott Cunningham conducted a study entitled ""Understanding the Effects of Violent Video Games on Violent Crime,"" trying to explain why crime has declined with the rise of video games. He theorizes that video games allow violent individuals to play out their fantasies in simulated scenarios rather than in real life, reducing actual violence. [6] So video games actually reduce real world violence. R2) Addiction Anything, taken to an extreme, can be addictive. There are sex addicts in our society – that doesn't mean that sex is ""ruining our society."" If anything, it is keeping it running. Unlike cigarettes, video games do not contain anything in them that is INHERENTLY addictive and are thus not a bad product. Some people with addictive personalities merely abuse them; the same people could be huffing glue, but instead they play Halo 3. In fact, Halo 3 may be a safer addiction than the other things these addictive types might get addicted to. My opponent claims that 97% of teens play video games. However, the breakdown is more like 90% of boys and 40% of girls. [4] In addition, he claims, like this source here, that 1 in 8 gamers (around 12%) show ""signs of addictive behavior."" [7] However, the breakdown is more like 10% are ""at risk of addiction"" and 2 percent are fully addicted to video games. [8] 2 percent addiction rates are normal for any product; at least 2% of food users are addicts; at least 2% of exercisers are exercise addicts; at least 2% of marijuana users are addicted; at least 2% of the sexually active are sex addicts. Just because a few individuals abuse something to the point where it becomes an addiction DOES NOT prove that that product is ""ruining society."" In fact, I'd rather have someone hooked on Halo 3 than on cocaine; the real problem is people with addictive personality types, NOT the products themselves. ==My case== Video games are good 1. Mitch Wade, an information consultant for Rand Corp. and Google, wrote a book called ""Got Game,"" where he discusses how studies show that moderate gamers have vastly better problem solving ability, team play, and careful risk-taking than non-gamers. [9] Video games often present complex puzzles that help youngsters develop complex thought processes; they teach team building skills since there are many levels in video games that cannot be beat without the help of either a real life or AI partner, and lastly, VERY FEW people in our society like to take risks, since we are very risk averse. Yes business DEMANDS we sometimes take risks, and video games help gamers learn when to take a risk and when not to. 2. John Gabrieli, a neuroscientist at MIT, has concluded that the adaptive difficulty of video games makes people keep playing and learning, when a normal person would quit, by sucking the player in, providing rewards for continuing, and only ramping up the difficulty as the game progresses. Ultimately, he concludes that playing video games makes you smarter and is an easy way to learn. [10] In fact, Stephen Johnson wrote a whole book on the subject called ""Everything Bad Is Good for You: How Today's Popular Culture Is Actually Making Us Smarter."" 3. Video games can help socially awkward kids. A study by Nick Yee found that ""many younger players report becoming more comfortable with face-to-face communication after playing MMORPGs."" [11] For extremely socially awkward youth, online games are a good way to learn rudimentary social skills and defeat some social anxiety regarding interacting with others. 4. A study by Shawn Green & Daphne Bavelier video game players have better hand-eye coordination and visuo-motor skills, have more resistance to distraction, have more sensitivity to information in the peripheral vision and have a greater ability to count briefly presented objects, than non-players. They also found that video games develop the individual's intelligence, and in social games develop the social capabilities of the individual. [12] 5. NPR reports: ""Daphne Bavelier is professor of brain and cognitive sciences at the University of Rochester. She studies young people playing action video games. Having now conducted more than 20 studies on the topic, Bavelier says, ‘It turns out that action video games are far from mindless.' Her studies show that video gamers show improved skills in vision, attention and certain aspects of cognition. And these skills are not just gaming skills, but real-world skills. They perform better than non-gamers on certain tests of attention, speed, accuracy, vision and multitasking, says Bavelier."" 6. Video games are being used increasingly as a teaching tool. For example, teachers are using games like Civilization to get students thinking about important global questions, like ""what happens to a civilization once it becomes a superpower?"" What problems does it then face? [14] My World History teacher in high school used an old video game to show why the US and Russia dominated the globe; he gave us each a country, and we each started with certain resources. Smart play was still important; my partner and I placed 8th with Sudan; but the USA won first every single year because it had so many more resources than all the other countries. So video games have multiple positive benefits for society. Vote Con. [1] My opponent's source [2] http://tinyurl.com... [3] Kellerman (1993) [4] http://tinyurl.com... [5] http://tinyurl.com... [6] http://tinyurl.com... [7] http://tinyurl.com... [8] Faiola, Anthony. Washington Post. May 27, 2006 [9] http://tinyurl.com... [10] http://tinyurl.com... [11] http://tinyurl.com... [12] http://tinyurl.com... [13] http://tinyurl.com... [14] http://tinyurl.com..."	CON	65
65	S5b6b25e-Af4d4d2da	Violent Video Games	I would like to once again thank my opponent, for accepting this debate. Society should restrict the sale and play of violent video games because children become desensitized to violence and its impact. If children are exposed to violence through media, such as violent video games. When children see violent acts in society they equate it with the non-personal response of a video game. Then those children become a danger to themselves. As children have no real picture of the devastating effects of violence in reality. The violence of video games often down plays violence. So to the child it is not very huge. Which is a major concern. It is a major concern because some children may try to emulate the violence seen in video games, thus causing harm to either themselves or others. Final thought violent video games cause violent behavior and violent acts. Below I have posted a link to better support my argument. http://www.sciencedirect.com...	PRO	66
66	S45462ad0-A3857a82e	Can video games be healthy	"I do agree that the links you provided give good evidence, but I shall now show you some major points against video games: 1. Addiction. If you spend your time ""interacting"" only with a machine playing on the computer, TV or handheld, that reduces your experience in interacting with real people. If you become addicted to anything, your other relationships and skills all suffer. Just as alcoholics and shopaholics sustain tangible damage to their physical bodies, relationships, finances and emotional health, becoming addicted to video games can be extremely destructive to a child or teen. They tend to become loners with low self-esteem and the problems compound and multiply. 2. Desensitization to Violence and Sexualized Content. As many as nine out of 10 video games depict violence in some form. That's unconscionable, to be presenting that much violence to impressionable young minds. Women and girls also tend to be depicted only as hyper-sexed beings, which is a grave concern. It's not true that every child who spends time with violent video games is going to ""go postal"" and kill people or hurt females. But studies do show that these young people have a significant increase in aggression and a significant decrease in the ability to delay gratification. Those tendencies make them worse family members, students and future employees, a tremendous problem. 3. Obesity. The American Academy of Pediatrics reports that childhood obesity increases as time spent before a screen increases. One-third of American children are now considered overweight. Those who play video games for several hours every day would end up being overweight or obese. The only way to counter this is hours of exercise which gamers don""t really show interest in. With obesity on the rise across the country and the world, video games are not seen as the best form of fun or entertainment. Obesity also opens the doors for various kinds of health ailments. 4. Video games can damage the nerves and tendons in the hand, especially the thumbs and other fingers that are subjected to too much use. Slouching and stagnant postures are not healthy either. Anyone who plays video games for several hours and does so regularly every day or on several days in a week would eventually have physical problems. 5. The recent release of Grand Theft Auto IV has sparked controversy over the effect of video games on human behavior. Gamers have the option of getting drunk and getting behind the wheel of a car, which has provoked MADD (Mothers Against Drunk Driving) to petition to the ESRB to change GTA IV""s rating to AO (Adult Only) and for Take Two (makers of GTA IV) to withdraw their game from store shelves. 6. A few people's opinion on the topic is: ""I've known a few people who would gamble so much with in-game gachapon that they would not be able to afford anything in real life, like one friend couldn't afford a BED for years, but she'd spend a lot of money gambling for her video game character's clothing pieces. The same happened with a friend who would be unable to afford a place to live, and kept bouncing from his parents' and grandparents' home, and even begging me for real life money, even though he did have money that he'd use to gamble for more virtual game items than I could afford myself."" Kouki (quora) ""The cons of video games include Reduced physical activity, along with all associated health effects. Increased risk of myopia. This doesn't actually have anything to do with games directly, but the fact that most gaming occurs indoors, and the lower light intensity of indoors environments relative to sunlight leads to higher myopia rates. Reduced patience to deal with situations where nothing changes at all. Takes time and money that can be allocated to other activities. Reduced tolerance for injustice. The real world is extraordinarily unfair where success is very badly correlated with individual effort and far more closely linked to the social context in which the individual was located. Games are almost perfectly fair where success is linked mainly to individual effort, ability and decision making ability. Someone who is too accustomed to the fairness of a virtual world programmed to be so might not ever be able to accept the reality of the real world."" Ryuu Shun (quora) ""I think that Fatigue, Eye Strain,Auto Disconnection From The Real World and Laziness are just a FEW of the cons of video games"" Animesh (quora) 7. Here is a recount of a gaming addict:- OFFICE worker, James Perrott, 26, from Peterborough, was a professional gamer in his late teens and early twenties. He says: ""I started playing games when I was 15 on a PC. When I went to university I dedicated more time to gaming because there was no one there to tell me to stop. I""d skip lectures and stay up gaming until 2 or 3am, then sleep until midday. I""d get takeaways instead of cooking just so I could continue gaming. It was a dangerous cycle. I had gained weight and my grades were starting to slip. I also chose gaming over school friends and didn""t have a girlfriend. It became my whole life when I started competing at tournaments all over the UK and Europe. When I scraped through my second-year exams I knew something had to change or I""d fail my finals. I gave up completely, which was really hard to do."" (The sun.com) 8. Research on The Negative Effects of Video Games on Children: . Increasing levels of obesity with screen-based time, primarily television (http://www.hsph.harvard.edu...) . Playing more than 3 hours of video games day can result in poor psychological adjustment in children (http://pediatrics.aappublications.org...) . Violence and video games (http://ithp.org...) . Ignoring other activities due to 7 hours 38 minutes a day of digital-media time(http://kff.org...) . Possibility of video game addiction (https://www.psychologytoday.com...) 9. Promotes Poor Health video games promote poor health in general. We need sunlight for some vitamins to work on our body, and while we are playing video games, we are not getting a lot of sunlight. 10. It can damage your relationship:- Video Games can Leave one-Half of a Couple Feeling Abandoned When playing video games becomes more than an entertaining hobby, the result can be that one-half of a couple feels like a video gaming widow/widower. Any time somebody in a relationship feels as if video gaming or another hobby is more important to their partner than they are, the relationship is at serious risk. Too much time spent gaming can definitely harm a relationship.Easily Influenced Players can Pick up Anti-Social Behaviors The average person can spend a few hours playing video games that are highly competitive in nature or even violent, without exhibiting any negative behavior changes. Unfortunately, there are a few individuals who cannot do this. Instead, these folks become irritable, isolated, and in some instances aggressive. This can be more troublesome with male gamers who can be badly influenced by the extremely sexist subculture that permeates the world of online, multiplayer gaming. When these behaviors impact a relationship, the result can be permanent damage to a relationship. In extreme cases, verbal abuse and even relationship violence can occur.Couples can Fall into a Pattern of Using Video Games as a Means to Avoid Real Issues It takes a lot of focus and attention to play a video game. A gaming session that begins early in the evening may not end until it is time for a couple to go to sleep. This can mean hours of fun for a couple. It can also mean hours of time spent not working on the relationship, not hashing out problems, and avoiding difficult conversations. When this happens, problems that need to be dealt with fester and grow until they become a major issue in the relationship. Even worse, the relationship simply atrophies from neglect. Follow these links and look into it yourself: 1. 2. 3. www.c-span.org/video/?192984-1/violent-video-games 4. 5. https://www.researchgate.net... 6. http://neurosolution.ca... 7. http://internetaddictionresource.com... 8. http://www.cnet.com... 9. http://www.premier.org.uk... 10. http://ocw.metu.edu.tr... 11. https://contentiousissues2010a.wikispaces.com..."	CON	67
67	S7a99f4c0-A87c243e1	Video games cause violence	"Hello again. Your argument thus far is simple: Violent crimes have gone down while video game sales have gone up, showing an apparent inverse correlation of these two statistics. My counterargument, too, is simple: The apparent inverse correlation of these two statistics mask the causation that is actually there is some cases. Your statistics, at best, show that the spread of video games has not increased the number of violent crimes. This is a fair point (though I would point out that there were MANY other factors at play in contributing to the violent crime rate's decline) but my case does not contend that the spread of video games increase the number of violent crimes, but that they do indeed influence the lives of players and that they can and do at least partially cause violence. I will focus on HOW video games cause violence as well as reference incidents of publicized, mass shootings in which video games clearly played a role. First of all, video games are addictive. A study and discussion by the American Medical Association discussed the fact that video game addiction (VGA) was a real and prominent issue in the health of many Americans. Psychotherapist Shavaun Scott said that those who suffered from VGA created a separate world from reality, extremely similar to that of drug users. He elaborated that if there were conflicts in this world or if the addict became without his game, they could suffer from withdrawal or depression. These users become distant from their families and from the real world, which can lead to other mental health issues. As stated by the U.S.'s Department of Human Services, ""Psychopathology, substance abuse, poverty, cultural factors, anger, stress, and depression often are thought to cause domestic violence. While there is little empirical evidence that these factors are direct causes of domestic violence, research suggests that they can affect its severity, frequency, and the nature of the perpetrator's abusive behavior."" So, to summarize my first case, my argument is that ""Video games > Video game addiction > stress, depression, and mental health issues > domestic violence."". Still, this is just one way that video games are detrimental to relationships and cause violence. This increase in severity and frequency of domestic violence is not show in your original argument's statistics, as the number of violent crimes would not increase just because their severity and frequency increased within isolated incidents. http://serendip.brynmawr.edu... https://www.childwelfare.gov... On the subject of violent video games, I will argue that violence in games normalizes violence in real life and teaches children, teenagers, and adults the basics of shooting. For example, the U.S. Military has used and even helped develop games that simulate warfare in order to acclimate soldiers to violence and help them become more ready to pull the trigger. Soldiers interviewed by the Washington Post say that the games help them feel more normal while fighting, and that to them, shooting and killing even felt like a game after all of their years of playing. My argument here is that teaching people to be killers, as the games have obviously done, as attested to by U.S. Army soldiers, will make violent crimes with weapons more severe. The people that do play these games and then become violent will have virtual practice with weapons, and thus they will be more effective and in turn do more damage. This may not be the direct cause of violence, but it could indeed be a secondary cause. What if someone was contemplating violence, but they were unsure that they would be able to effectively harm anyone, thus making their attempt at violence useless? With video games, they are allowed to practice violence BEFORE they attack anyone, thus building their confidence that violence will be successful and convincing them to try it. http://www.washingtonpost.com... Lastly, I will provide specific examples of cases in which video games were at least a contributing cause of violence: Adam Lanza, the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooter, was an addict of both violent and nonviolent games. Data taken by a GPS device his mother had given him showed him playing Dance Dance Revolution for long periods of time on weekends. He played between 4 and 10 hours a day on Fridays, Saturdays, and Sundays. Other video games, including the notorious Call of Duty games, Grand Theft Auto, Halo, and Splinter Cell games have all been found at his home. Many news outlets have speculated that video games could have created a rift between himself and the real world, and maybe even outright trained him to believe that killing was normal. In Vietnam, a 13 year old boy murdered and robbed an 81 year old woman. He said that he needed the money to fuel his addiction to online games. Back in the States, A Jacksonvillian woman pleaded guilty to shaking her baby to death, a second degree murder charge. She told investigators that it was because the baby would not stop crying, interrupting her addiction to Farmville, the game she was playing at the time. An Ohio teen, Daniel Petric, shot and killed his mother and shot and wounded his father because they took away his copy of Halo 3, thus interrupting his video game addiction. The judge said that he ""firmly [believed] that Daniel Petric had no idea at the time he hatched this plot that if he killed his parents they would be dead forever."" It is a common element in violent video games for characters to ""respawn"" after dying. Another Vietnamese teenager murdered a 7 year old girl by bashing her head in with a rock. Police say he planned to kill the girl while they were picking fruit, stealing her gold ear rings to pay for computer games. There are at least 10 deaths that have occured because infants and small children have been left unattended for extended periods of time in heat or without food/water while the parent played addictive video games like World of Warcraft. It is not my argument that these deaths have been violent deaths, and thusly they are not direct examples of video games causing violence. Rather, they are examples of how extreme video game addiction can become, which could easily lead to violence. http://kotaku.com... http://www.news.com.au... http://jacksonville.com... http://news.softpedia.com... http://www.cbsnews.com... In summary, it is my argument that video games are addictive and destructive. I have presented examples of how this addiction can become destructive, of how it can lead to stress, anger, and domestic violence, of how it leads to irrational violence by those who are desperate to continue their addiction. I have presented an example of how it allows soldiers to normalize and prepare for violent war, and provided a hypothetical of how this could affect civilian people. Video games are AT LEAST a secondary cause of violence. Video games make violence that does occur more severe and makes those who commit it more effective. They are detrimental to society and they CAN cause violence. That will conclude my opening argument. Thank you again, and I wish you luck."	PRO	68
68	Sadb55d1d-A944ed68b	Video Games are a good thing	It is unarguable that video games contain large amounts of violent content but that violent content in normal humans not predisposed to having violent behavior will not be any more violent than if they had never played any video games. In fact it will reduce their violent behavior because they can take out their anger for the outside world in a controlled environment. It is proved that video games increase cognitive reasoning, spatial cognition, organizational skills, listening abilities and teach people to plan and think before they react. It is also agreed upon that many business owners prefer to higher people who play video games because the aspire to be greater. There is no proven data that consistently says that regular people will be negatively affected at all by playing video games. Some will say it causes us to have ADHD and ADD tendencies, but I believe that is just how we receive information these days. We don't read whole magazines and papers. The news tell us 3-5 sentences stories and try to get as much info out as fast as possible. One can not even argue it causes people to get fat because that is a personal choice. I played video games in High school everyday, but I also ran and lifted weights everyday. Plus, anymore video games are on the Kinect and other motion sensing games make you get up and move. I don't know were you are going to get an argument in here.	PRO	69
69	S3466ccde-A55aff384	Video Games cause violence	Video Games DO NOT cause violence (Or at least not at a scale which is large enough to worry about.) There is no evidence to support video games cause things such as murders or school shootings etc. Scientests have found however there are many benifits to video games such as socialisation increased reflexes etc.	CON	70
70	Sfc3f97e0-Afd2b7373	Video Games Are Bad for You	I understand that video games are bad for you if you do too much of it but I am stating that some video games can be good for you. These are some ways that video games are good for you. Dyslexic kids may be better at reading and the game Starcraft can make you smarter.	CON	71
71	Sd645ce1a-A77fd3d28	video games help	i don't believe in video games. i don't believe that they exist. video games are figments of our imagination. its all a dream!	CON	72
72	S6812fbe6-A7a9b145f	Video Games are an art form.	"I believe that the creation of video games should be considered a form of art. Cinema is an art form, literature is an art form, and photography is an art form. A good video game usually has all of components of the art forms above, like beautiful visuals, enticing story lines, and originality. The only difference between video games and other art forms is that the admiring audience is actually interacting with the masterpiece. So, people argue that the ""masterpiece"" is different to all people trying to admire it. I argue back that there are paintings that show different concepts to different people. So why are video games not considered art?"	PRO	73
73	Sfc3f97e0-Acf037af5	Video Games Are Bad for You	"This is the video I based part of my argument off http://www.youtube.com... First off, anything is bad in excess so I am not trying to prove this. What I AM trying to prove is that a little bit of video games is actually good. First, I understand that many people believe that video games ""fry"" your brain. They actually hurt your eyes so you should just take breaks. People who play video games 5-10 hours a week actually have better reflexes than people who don't. That is my argument for Round 1."	CON	74
74	S6812fbe6-A39113f44	Video Games are an art form.	"Thank you again for your input. You really should try Bioshock by the way, it's a classic. A:Video Games Have Goals All forms of art do have goals, but in the first round you stated only video games have goals. Not all art is designed for the audience to interpret for them selves, most have a clear purpose or idea that they are portraying. You said that the goals of video games are not up to the interpretation of the player, but this is not entirely true either. A growing concept among video games is choice manipulation, allowing the player to choose whether one thing happens or another, allowing the player th interpret which goal is more suitable. You also mentioned that a painting has no time limit, but a movie cannot be enjoyed forever, only for the amount of time it gives you. B:Deliberation If the first movie was a memory, than it isn't art, because that memory wouldn't be able to be enjoyed by others. But in that sense, the first video game could have been two men competing to see who could hit the most birds with one stone. If memories are a primitive type of cinema, any type of competition or game would be a primitive type of video game. C:Creators of Art You claimed that the audience can only observe art, but this is not true. Their are many works of art that allow the audience to interact. For example, their are books that allows the reader to make the major decisions, then lets them see where those decisions take the story. Another, but less common example, are movies that allow the audience to make the decisions. As for the observation of a game, the same ideals that are put into a movie could just as easily be put into a video game. There can be many meanings behind one game, and not always are they seen, so they are not forced. The goals of a video game force the gamer to interpret it just as much as a book or movie. These goals can actually give many more interpretations than the creator even had planned. As for the Kid and the college level book, he did not get to experience the book as much as an elite scholar would, just as a newbie does not enjoy a harder game as much as an elite gamer would. In a cinematic masterpiece, the music, graphics, and storyline are all taken in as a whole, so why are video games judged differently? If the graphics in a movie suck, then no one will be there defending it's amazing story, the same for video games. So why is Cinema a form of art, yet video games are not? To clarify, I was saying that the general public does not consider video games art because the majority of games do not hold that great of artistic characteristics. But as we all know, all forms of art have their less then appreciated side to them. According to Webster's dictionary, art is a ""skill acquired by experience, study, or observation."" Another definition is ""the conscious use of skill and creative imagination."" The creation of video games falls under both of these categories. And according to the second one, ""The CONSCIOUS use,"" says that art does not have to be originally a mistake. In fact, it says it can't be a mistake. Video games require both creativity and skill to make, so the creators should be respected as artists."	PRO	75
75	Sfadd659c-A146c737a	Are video games corrupting children	Kids are getting addicted to video games. Some of my classmates are getting 30% or under grades and they tell me they didn't study, they needed to beat their friend's high score. We did a graph of how long we played video games. Some children were reaching as high as 15 hours. Two boys who never do their homework talks every day about video games. Video game's unhealthy addiction is causing grades to fall, amount of sleep decreased, and intelligence lowered.	PRO	76
76	S5b766469-A86e263	Violence in video games.	Violence in video games is not the main reason of shootings but it is one factor. When you are playing a video game you feel like you are a god. You can't say that you have never played a game with water guns or Nerf or anything that has to do with fake guns. Violence in video games makes you fell like you are not going to have any punishments when you go shooting around in the real world. So yes violence in video games is a factor of shootings.	CON	77
77	Sd407e82c-Aa3655993	Video games caused WW2.	Hitler was a very violent person, who probably played video games and listened to metal music. That made him get violent tendencies which resulted in WW2 and the killing of 6 million Jews. Same with the first men on Earth. They played violent video games and listened to metal music and they became crazy and killed. After all, people argue and say that video games and metal music creates violence.	PRO	78
78	Sc4688886-Aee853cb4	Video Games Are Bad For Teens	"I believe you have misunderstood your place in this debate. I titled this debate ""Video Games Are Bad For Teens"", and as you can see, I took the place of the Con. That means that I am against that statement, hence I think video games are NOT bad. Since you joined this debate as the pro, that means that you agree with the statement. Which means that you should be supporting why video games ARE bad for teens."	CON	79
79	S5b6b2f9-A238a80d6	Violent Video Games	"Although I agree that many video games are far too violent and can promote killing and stealing, there are other factors. One such is parental involvement. If you don't have a dad/mom around, their non-presence alone can push kids towards suicidal and even violent thoughts. An article I have read, called ""Do Video Games Make Teens Violent"" from NewsMic, says that spending too much time in violent video games can take away from time in positive environments. In conclusion, video games alone do not cause violence, but must have several other factors to cause any real harm."	CON	80
80	Sdafffd65-Aa10e5ef6	Video Games Are An Art Form	I must say you do make a point that video games are art.What I was saying is that art is a skill and people making the games are very good indeed. You know this just came out of my mind right now and I never think of this before if video games are art then why don't we not hear they are admired as art should be?You admired them and I'm glad that you are , video games are more of a gaming way than admired by a few of their good scenarios and images.So really if you try put up a opinion of what would you do if you got a cool video game with nice graphics and good gaming the approximate will say that it's better to game than waste your time admiring the graphics	CON	81
81	Saa60f638-A76c874ea	Video Games Are Harmful to Kids	You rightly point out that low test scores are not solely the result of gaming. I also appreciate your argument for moderation, as well as your inclusion of educational types of video games. However, the popularity of violent video games underscores how potentially dangerous this type of gaming is, especially on developing minds. According to Psychology Today, such video games essentially reward for violent behavior, are potentially addicting and reduces empathy while at the same time decreasing the capacity for mature decision making. These are serious consequences. The forming of 'game brains' means less social engagement, shorter attention spans (consider the rise of adhd and add) and less active play (consider, as well the rising obesity rates). While video games can't be the sole blame for such problems, they are certainly contributing factors. Regulation is required, to say the least.	PRO	82
82	Saa60f638-A82d05cd0	Video Games Are Harmful to Kids	"Video games are positive when it comes to stimulating a child""s brain cells. They teach skills such as multitasking and problem solving. Granted some video games are mature in nature and appear to have negative effects but they are mature for a reason and are not necessarily suitable for young kids. Video games are also known to help a person""s hand eye coordination and their reflex skills in quick time situations. I am biased when it comes to this subject because I have played video games for many years and I get countless entertainment and joy out of them. They also bring out a social being in people who would otherwise be classified as an outcast in normal physical interactions."	CON	83
83	Sfadd659c-Adaeedccb	Are video games corrupting children	It's different when you are doing it on a computer at work. You get up early, working all day doing something productive to make money for your family. People playing video games are waking up whenever they want and playing games all day wich won't help anyone or anything. Video games stop kids from studying, eating properly, and getting enough exercise. Certain studies show that most violent games tend to create violent behavior in kids, since they become blind to the difference between real life and games on tv/computer. It also blocks children from the importance of social life and causes them to be isolated! Playing violent video games a lot makes an individual's brain less responsive to violence. This leads to and increased aggressive behavior, as over time, the brain does not perceive that agression to be anything abnormal. Dr. C. Shawn Green of university of winsconsin concluded video games can change your brain. Things you used to be interested in now no longer holds any interest. Playing videos for long hours reduces sleep one gets, leading to insomia. Back pains are also common for game addicts since they are sitting in one place. A research carried out by the National Institute for media and the family says video games can increase anxiety levels and depression. Another study shows children aged 9-15 years who play mature and violent video games causes them to bully, becoming abusive, beating, or clobbering siblings and peers. Not only do gamers get bad grades, they also cut school, and even drop out. In 2005, a 28 year old man from south Korea collapsed and died of cardiac arrest playing a video game for 50 hours straight. In October 2007 a teenager from Ohio shot his parents for taking away his game halo 3. A Korean couple, in 2009, spent hours playing video games, neglecting their 3 month old baby, who died from malnutrition and dehydration. A 16 year old from south Philadelphia killed his mother in the year 2010 for confiscating his psp.	PRO	84
84	Sd94ca2d5-Ae19512af	The content of Video Games	I know that we're not here to discuss the crime rate but the 30 year low just helps prove that video games are not a major factor in making teens violent. Another pointer is that video games do not necessarily invoke aggressive thoughts. There are many other factors that would be much more effective such as bullying, abuse, illegal activities, etc. If a teen does happen to have aggressive thoughts, we wouldn't know whether the cause of that would be video games. I will go back to my first example, in the past, teens have lived much more dangerous and violent lives than we do now. Even today, some countries are constantly torn apart by the terrors of war. Do you think the teens there like violence? And do you think if they played violent video games, they would like it?	CON	85
85	Saa60f638-Ab2ea0312	Video Games Are Harmful to Kids	"It is true that some people take video games to the extreme and let them rule their lives. They can cause a person to become lazy and uninterested in bland subjects that are necessary in life. But video games are not the only cause of this. There are plenty of other reasons other countries have higher test scores. One such reason is in America some kids just don""t really care about education. In this sense they go to school but they could care less what their grade is. This can be argued to be directly related to video games but not necessarily. Some kids feel that since they are not the smartest that is not worth trying. While others just try hard but they can""t wrap their brains around what they are doing wrong. This leads me to my second point, the lack of a better public school system. This is another reason America is falling behind the other countries. According to the Washington post, ""The United States has edged up its score over the years, and it's in the top 13 educational systems in the world, but Americans are still consistently outranked by the same handful of countries."" Other countries are modernizing with the times and keeping their educational systems at the top of their list while in America there are far greater worries such as Obama care and the 8 trillion dollars that the Pentagon has lost. Going back to video games and education there are plenty of games out there whose whole goal is to educate. Such games are luminosity, all history channel games, clue finders games, zoombinis and any trivia games. Granted these are not per say fun for the masses the point is they are an option for kids to choose. I know as a child I spent plenty of my afternoons playing clue finders or zoombinis. They combined education with a story line that at a young age influenced me and subliminally taught me critical thinking skills. Now-a-days I will agree that there is a lack of these fun educational games for high school students. Video games like I said before are for fun and should not be taken to the extreme. They are not meant to corrupt kids and hold them back mentally but to be a way to spend free time. Pentagon article-http://www.theverge.com..."	CON	86
86	S7d4cf2e8-A9f625800	are video games better than board games	"Purpose: As the topic states, con will try to disprove why video games are better than board games. Terms: Board game - A game, as checkers or chess, requiring the moving of pieces from one section of a board to another. [1] Video game - Any of various interactive games played using a specialized electronic gaming device or a computer or mobile device and a television or other display screen, along with a means to control graphic images. [2] Better - Of superior suitability, advisability, desirability, acceptableness, etc.; preferable. [3] Arguments: 1. Social Experience Admit it - board games require far more social interaction than video games do. Obviously, this doesn't consider the realm of singleplayer board games or video games. There's something very unique about communicating face-to-face with another person during a board game, versus little to no long distance communication with video games. While playing a board game, one gets to deal with new people and personalities, effectively mirroring social experiences in the real world. [5] When one plays video games, they hide behind an internet persona, effectively granting them the opportunity to say whatever they want. As such, ""gamer speak"" is commonly used online, and conversations often end with swearing and accusing - in short, the majority of gamers end up more immature than they start off. [6] With video games, people become more socially isolated and aggressive, especially through games that involve violence. [7] Overall, board games are far more social and polite, because they require direct communication, often as a premise. 2. Addiction Many people who play video games become addicted, while extreme board game addicts rarely appear. Addicts routinely skip schoolwork in order to play more video games, and often have lower concentration spans. [7] Addicts also lie more often and are more irritable. [8] Many symptoms of video game addiction can be related to those of drug or gambling addictions. So while video games can harm health and behavior, board games do not. 3. Fun and Education While both video games and board games are fun, they achieve fun in different ways. Video games are often more mindless than board games. Board games are capable of achieving not only fun, but also education. For example, which one is more likely to help you perform well in school - Call of Duty or chess? In short, board games require a lot more thinking and strategizing, because they often have more elaborate premises. Counterarguments: 1. Incorrect Assumptions My opponent incorrectly assumes that video games don't require two people, while board games do. In fact, there are hundreds of board games that only need one person to play. [4] In fact, many people who do play board games such as chess realize that they can simply play against themselves, and that this is one of the best practicing opportunities one can have. In addition, let's consider video games as well. Let's take a look at a game you probably know (given your username): Minecraft. While Minecraft indeed has a singleplayer component, the majority of users use multiplayer, which is generally considered more ""fun"" given the amount of people and minigames available. Furthermore, consider the world of e-sports - simply put, video games like League of Legends would not even exist without a multiplayer aspect, and neither would professional gamers. So I have disproved your only argument. Conclusion: Board games are more social, less addictive and harmful, and more thoughtful than video games, as I have shown. Therefore, it is impossible to vote for anything but con on this issue. Sources: [1] http://dictionary.reference.com... [2] http://dictionary.reference.com... [3] http://dictionary.reference.com... [4] http://boardgamegeek.com... [5] http://www.inc.com... [6] http://h2g2.com... [7] http://www.raisesmartkid.com... [8] http://www.webmd.com..."	CON	87
87	S8b8b07a3-Ac2963c4	Competitive video games are a sport.	"Thank you for the response. I'll go straight into the rebuttals now. (1) ""As the definition for sports goes, with comparing that to video games, there is no physical exertion or activity during video gaming other then the movement of your eyes and the clicking of the mouse with your finger."" Con's main issue here seems to be that there's no physical exertion in video games. He fails to realize that in the definition I provided, and he accepted, nothing is said about physical exertion being necessary. Perhaps you're referring to where it says athletic activity? If so, let's define athletic- ""of or relating to athletes; involving the use of physical skills or capabilities, as strength, agility, or stamina:"" [1] Being able to make precise movements with your mouse in incredible speeds is most definitely a physical skill. Video games also require a level of stamina, as certain competitive matches can last hours. Hours of mice rapid mice movement can easily strain hands, and physical injuries in video games are very common. An example of a long match is the 2 hour and 43 minute CSGO match [2] that happened in April of 2015 [3]. One map taking that long requires physical stamina, and mental stamina too. However, perhaps you're referring to the part of the definition where it says ""skill or physical prowess"", namely the physical prowess part. If you are referring to that, you need to note the ""or"" in the definition. Video games 100% do take quite a bit of skill. (2) ""This definitely does not constitute exercise or any type of sport. A 350 lbs person could be clicking buttons on the keyboard or mouse, but that is not a sport. In sport athletes need to stay in shape for physical endurance not drink Red Bull to stay awake to stare at a screen."" Con again fails to prove that competitive video games don't fit the definition provided for ""sport"". This doesn't need to be rebuttaled, as it doesn't help his case at all. Lastly, I do agree that clicking buttons on your keyboard or mouse shouldn't be considered a sport, but you have to understand, that's not what we're arguing. We're talking about competitive gaming, not just clicking buttons. They're two very different things. (3) ""Video games being a sport is like calling Chess playing a sport, it's not a sport, it's an activity like air hockey or lawn bowling."" Con uses an unproved assertion of facts right here. Simply saying ""it's not a sport"", doesn't mean video games aren't a sport, you need to prove what you're saying. (4) ""In video games players just play competitively against each other on a screen, in a digital world, we are not even talking about the real world."" No where in the definition does it say that sports need to be in ""the real world"". This statement does nothing to help your case. (5) ""That would be like saying, watching tv competitively is a sport. Lets see how many Netflix shows you can binge watch in 36 hours."" Con again uses an analogy to try to prove his point, instead of using objective facts. Again, you need to realize that we aren't talking about competitive T.V. watching. We're debating over whether or not competitive video games fit the definition of sport. To summarize: Con uses a lot of unproved assertion of opinion, instead of using sources and facts. As a reminder to Con, in this debate you must prove that competitive video games do not fit the definition of sport (that I provided in the first round). Thank you [1]- http://www.dictionary.com... [2]- http://www.ibtimes.co.uk... [3]- https://www.hltv.org..."	PRO	88
88	S2120845c-A36ac1b60	Video games can be good.	Most of the stuff I agree with you but video games can be harmful and it could do more harm then good but I am not talking about video causing violence I will talk about how it can be harmful. Video games are very addicted The problem with video games is that they are very addicted and being a addicted to something makes it hard to leave the screen also being close to a screen for a long time can have a negative affect on your eyes. Also some children get very addicted that they stay up to more than 24 hours straight playing games, and it has happened before. Also getting addicted to a game can do harm like it makes a child lazy and more aggressive. But I still think it does not cause crime. Video games cant be good for the human brain - I know there are some games that teach education and me myself like video games as well but it could cause harm to human brain. Like stated above children can become lazy and more aggressive and also it effects there intelligence. The games your talking about with educational value are good for children but it can still effect their brain. For example lets say if I was playing a video game. That video game will affect my brain cells and later on I might not even perform well in my school studies. Yes video games are entertainment and fun to play but tit could be harmful. Rebuttals Then there is also Minecraft. A very popular game, where you craft things, make mines, building etc. This game challenges creativity, while giving a fun entertaining way of game play. This fun game tests creativity, survival skills. Also, players make a variety of strategies. For example, they try to find the ideal layer under the ground to find specific things, such as gold and diamonds. This game tests creativity, strategy, and more, making it another good video game. This video game is good. [4] I like Minecraft too but I hate to say it to you that not all things in the game are good for children. Some things in it are not educational. Also children do not depend on survival skills from a video game. Examples on how Minecraft can be bad but I still like it - Very addicting depending on the person - Can affect the mind and intelligence making children think that redstone dust, or zombies are real - It can lead to violence in the game. To start off, one game almost all of us have at least played once, Tetris. Tetris is a video game where you place shapes that are falling specifically in order to fit them all. When the blocks past the top, you lose. In this game, you need to estimate the ideal area to place the shape, in such a short time. This game promotes quick thinking, problem solving, and geometry. In the end, it can aid children in all these areas, making the game good. [3] You said it was fast playing. Another thing that can effect the mind and cause harm. I like the game but it has been shown that fast animation games can harm human brain cells That's all I have to say also I am not saying you should not play the game or the game should be banned but don't play them for a long time. Also I would like to point out your resources 3.http://en.wikipedia.org...... 4.http://en.wikipedia.org...... Wikipedia's are not reliable they can be edited	CON	89
89	Sd94ca2d5-A728e6abc	The content of Video Games	"Although I do agree that we can not afford to even have one person ""cross over"" or think that providing video games for all ages does not pose any risk i do not agree with the statement that it demoralizes society. Although there is always a public outcry when events like Columbine happen, but they are always pushed aside sooner or later by the fast paced media. Not only that society always carries on, cases like Columbine didn't affect sales of video games. The only real lasting effects were on the school, the people involved and their friends and family. While your claim that no direct evidence is needed to say that the cause of violence was video games (in the case of Columbine), you ask ""who is to say that the violence they practice in their virtual world did not become the ""last straw on the back of the camel"" and played into their final act?"" That statement is a double edged sword. Who is to say that the video games didn't play a final role in their final act? As to when I have my own kids, I would have second thoughts on letting them unrestricted access to violent video games but these second thought would be reinforced by guidelines and restrictions."	CON	90
90	Sadb55d1d-Ae8c047a	Video Games are a good thing	I am Pro for Video Games are a Good Thing. I will be supporting Video Games educational purpose and lack of negative side effects.	PRO	91
91	Saa180ed6-A442496c	Video games are for retards	Playing games is totally not for retards, actually playing video games improves our skills of evaluating situations, for example in decision making games, where what you do creates a new version of how the story will go out games: GTA V, HALO. There are many video games that also include puzzle solving and you will have to think really hard to figure some puzzles out which also helps our problem solving. Games for example: The incredible machine, Echochrome, Fez, and Portal franchise	PRO	92
92	Sd94ca2d5-Ae3e9b7e7	The content of Video Games	It's a good thing that the rate of teen violence has been decreasing. But we are not here to debate whether the rate is higher or lower than before. Instead, we are here to discuss whether there is a direct correlation between engaging in violent video games and acting out violence in real life, for teenagers. Psychologists have shown that youngsters spend a significant amount of their spare time playing video games, boys more so than girls. While not all video games contain violence, the most popular ones do. More importantly, playing violent video games has been linked to having aggressive thoughts (http://www.apa.org...). In my opinion, having aggressive thoughts is, for a teenage, the first step toward becoming violent in action. Since violent media games lead to aggressive thoughts and aggressive thoughts may lead to violent action, by the rule of transitivity, for sure violent media games contributes to teenage violence. There is no doubt about it.	PRO	93
93	S74862f47-A986cb4b	Video games should be censored	My opponents argument against Nintendo is flawed because I used the company Nintendo to promote my point that the US is not the only video game producing country. While Nintendo does have branches located in the us, the HQ is still located in Japan. That makes Nintendo a Japan based company. I have nothing against Nintendo because they do already promote censoring their video games. In my opinion, the rest of the video game industry should follow in example (as proof of my stance.) As I stated before, we are not debating whither you CAN censor video games, we are debating whither we SHOULD censor video games. because of that reason, my opponents first (and main) argument is irrelevant. Their argument against 'we abuse and overlook ratings' was giving rules and regulations from Sears. Well I don't really need to say any thing, my opponent took the words RIGHT OUT OF MY MOUTH: 'plenty of parents look over games ratings before buying them, I know mine do'. my opponent is correct, most parents overlook these ratings, that is why we need to censor video games. I would like to propose a new argument, that if a child views violence or 'bad words', then that child could get the idea that the content is okay. It is simple logic, the parent allows the child to buy the video game and when the child is exposed to the language and violence, they start to be repeated. In no way can this be interpreted as being good, and because this is true this is why video games should be censored. my opponent states that I have been 'trying to deter' his case, TRYING really, considering all of my points compared to yours, you have NOTHING left.	PRO	94
94	Sd82809b-A6c1437eb	Video Games, Bad or Good	I am thankful you accepted this debate. I don't pick noobs to debate unless it is a subject I am knowledgeable about. And having some but not a lot of experience with this I will challenge my skills to find good info and websites to use. Video games are good for the mind as they will challenge the mind to figure out puzzles and they do help with coordination. Now, it is known that video games that are extremely violent and there is some but almost no correlation between people who do bad things in real life and those who do it in video games. Proper use of video games, such as to alleviate stress. http://www.makeuseof.com... This article helps illustrate what I am stating. I don't mean shooter games like halo or assassins creed. What I mean is somewhat more on the level of the Lego games. With puzzles galore and it includes heroes and villains it is perfect for those who are mentally ill, people who just want to exercise their brain, or people who just want to relax with something that is both challenging and fun.	PRO	95
95	S6812fbe6-A147b9481	Video Games are an art form.	Thank you once again for the debate and thank you for a timely response. A: Video Games have goals You stated that all forms of art have goals, and you listed the Odessey and the Titanic as examples. When you listed these, I think that you may have misunderstood my argument. With the Odyssey and the Titanic, the goal can be interpreted any way one chooses. For example, in the Titanic, one might interpret the goal to be for the Titanic to sink. Others might think the goal is for Rose and Jack to fall in love. With all forms of art, it is up to the observer to interpret. In video games, this is not the case. If you do not interpret the video game in the sense that the video game created sought it to be, i.e. getting passed missions, then the video game does not proceed until you have accomplished this goal. Often times, there are even time limits on achieving these goals to further encourage doing the missions at a faster rate of speed. You can sit and look at a painting for hours and interpret it in all sorts of ways, but if you don't take the bomb to the checkpoint in 60 seconds in a video game, it'll blow up in your face. B: Deliberation You brought up cinema and photography as examples of things that could not happen in nature. This is not true. One could say the first movie was the memory of an event that took place. What was that memory? A series of picture played in the mind in a certain order that recalls the event. Thus, recalling the first time one drove a car would be an example of cinematica art. Same applies for photography. C: Creators of Art Once again, I believe you may have misinterpreted my argument. When I brought up this point, I was not refering to the numbers of creators. Allow me to try and explain it again. In standard art forms, the creator creates and and the observer observes. But in video games, the creator creates and the observer (gamer) can both observe (play) and interact (create) with the game. This differenciates video games from standard art forms, for video games allow the user to change and interact with the game, but standatd art forms do not allow the observer to change or interact with the art form. I like your argument about the perspective of the painting, but that does not go as far as to decide how the observer inteprets the painting, as does the game creator force the gamer to interpret the game. Also, the goals of a video game force the gamer to interpret it the way the creator wishes. In the examples provided, you mainly discussed the entertainment value of standard art forms, but video games have a measure of how entertaining they are to the gamer as well. Also, a kid can read a college level novel and interpret it as gibberish (we all know we tried when we were little lol), but in a video game the same kid needs to accomplish goals, i.e. interpret the game as the creator wishes, to continue to observe and interact with the game. I'm sorry to say that I have never played Bioshock, but I am an avid player of Starcraft 2: Wings of Liberty. It's graphics, and the graphics of other video games, may be interpreted as forms of art, but that is seperating the graphics from the sounds, gameplay, storyline, and other aspects of the video game. Seperatetly, they may be considered art forms, but video games are a bundle package. By throwing all of the aspects of art in one package, it disallows video games to be a form of art. I would also like to ask you to clarify why you brought up that all forms of art have their 'crap'. Yes, its true, you and many others would consider video games to be the newest forms of art, but the fact is that their not. Video games are much different from the standerd art forms, and though their individual aspects are forms of art, the bundle package defeats the purpose of an art form. I stand in firm resolution that video games are not forms of art, and thus urge the voters to vote Con.	CON	96
96	Sdbf33cc6-A7ad745c	video games	I'll take the challenge, but I'm not sure what your argument is here, but I'm assuming you mean that the video games of this generation are better than ones of previous generations. Can you please make the topic more clear?	CON	97
97	Sde7919ff-A77ba9a5a	Video Games	"Rebuttals =============================== Con states that one of the reasons why video games shouldn't be considered a normal media is because of how it conveys meanings of the product. He says that if a kid saw a game with blood and gore in it, his mother would not me impressed. Wouldn't that also be the case if a kid told his mom about an R rated movie with blood, gore, and swearing? Yes, yes it would. Con also states that it can't be considered a normal media because you don't need to ""listen"" to see what's going on. Well what about TV. Again, if you saw a guy stabbing someone else with blood everywhere in TV, the first reaction would probably be ""This is a violent TV show"", even without ""listening"" to it Another argument Con has is that gamers attitude changes while playing video games, therefore it shouldn't be considered a normal media. Well, it just means that they are immersed. Have you ever yelped back in fear after being jump scared in a movie? Probably. Con also states that gamers have a tough time controlling their rage. This just means that they are having a tough time beating a boss, or solving a puzzle, or just got sniped over and over again. Also, if you kept failing a task in real life, would you get frustrated? Yes, you probably would. So gamers don't have issues controlling their anger The shooter of Sandy Hook was in poor mental condition. As referenced in source [1], the shooter had sensory-integration disorder, and Asperger Syndrome. Most gamers who don't have a mental illness can tell what's right from what's wrong, and they won't go and shoot some kids due to video games. ==================== Sources: [1]: http://en.m.wikipedia.org..."	PRO	98
98	Sa4146c4c-Ab9756789	Video Games	I think that kids should be allowed play on three and a half hours of video games a week. Remember, this is just a debate. Parents have to agree first before it really happens. Thanks and no spamming!	PRO	99
99	Sa27442f9-A6e9d1c4a	video games	"First off, thank you for starting this debate. I enjoy having thoughtful discussions about this topic. However, both of the points you have made range from incredibly misleading to just flat out false. While some games do reward ""killing"" it's not to reward slaughter, rather, it's to reward following the rules of the game, an important part of game design. As for the ""video games cause violence"" argument, it has been debunked my most reputable researchers. Sources below in the comments. Thank you"	CON	100
100	S45462ad0-A1ff1a943	Can video games be healthy	"I will open my debate with a two facts :- RISK OF ALZHEIMER""S RESEARCH at the University of Montreal has found playing video games could increase the risk of developing Alzheimer""s disease in later life. It has been shown to affect the hippocampus part of the brain which controls memory, learning and emotion linked with Alzheimer""s and depression. secondly: CONTRIBUTES TO VIOLENCE STUDIES over a decade found that exposure to violent video games is a risk factor in aggression in game players. The American Psychological Association report stopped short of blaming video games."	CON	101
101	Sfb8c8cc0-A8b3ef728	video games are educational	Just because Video Games help with certain skills does not make them educational. If video games were educational, they would be straight up teaching you math or what ever it want to teach you. I know there are games like this, but these are not the games kids stay up all night playing. They are most likely playing Call of Duty or something similar. Games like COD are not educational. They might help with certain skills, but that does not make them educational. Call of Duty is just as educational as Lord of the Rings.	CON	102
102	Sd645ce39-Aa78c238f	video games help	"Hello my young friend, I would be delighted to debate you on this issue, I see this is really an issue on your mind this is your third time wanting to debate it, I sincerely hope you'll agree with me and make a life decision not to waste your life playing video games. The title of the discussion is video games help, that""s a very broad title, of course it could help sometimes, if a mom has to leave for a few minutes and she needs to occupy her children so they shouldn't wreak havoc, then a video game is very helpful. With that being said I'll argue that video games haven't given the world anything it didn't have already, and the world would probably be better off if we wouldn't have video games. Now four of your ""studies"" of why video games are helpful are like the above mentioned example example. (I'm short on space so I'll have to just reference your studies). 1.""2009's Annual Review of Cybertherapy and Telemedicine included a study that found that gamers who suffered from mental health issues such as stress and depression were able to vent their frustration and aggression by playing video games "" and showed a noted improvement. The study hypothesized that games gave certain ""Type A"" personalities time to relax in ""a state of relative mindlessness"" that allowed them to avoid reaching ""a certain level of stressful arousal"" as they tried to relax."" So first of all even if it's true that it supplies ""a state of relative mindlessness"" which is necessary for people suffering from mental health issues i wouldn't start defining video games in general as a helpful thing, it's just a band aid, one of many which can help someone to be less stressed. But I'll be honest with you, I'm skeptical about the whole study. It seems to contradict itself. Does a video game put someone into an angry and excited state which would help vent their frustration and aggression, or does it put one in a state of relaxation by way of relative mindlessness. 2.""Video games don't just provide relief from emotional pain. They can also help those who are suffering from physical pain"" "" No need to elaborate, when someone is in immense physical pain a distraction is always helpful. 3. ""Playing brain-teasing game for just two hours a week may help slow the degree of mental decay associated with the natural aging process, according to a study this year from the University of Iowa. A study of 681 healthy individuals ages 50 and older revealed that playing 10 hours of a specially designed video game was able to stall the natural decline of different cognitive skills by up to seven years, in some cases, Over five to eight weeks """" So first of all i can't say I really understood what they're doing. I mean for 6 to 8 weeks straight they play this game for 10 hours, did 700 people really sign up for the study, the whole thing sounds ridiculous. But anyways it has nothing to do with video games it's crossword puzzles and road tour (read above how it's helpful to old people) this Jason Allaire guy is off his rocker there is no connection. 4. ""In February, the Italian researchers presented evidence that playing fast-paced video games can improve the reading skills of children with dyslexia. The team separated children age 7 to 13 into two groups, one of which played an action game called ""Rayman Raving Rabbids"" while the other played a lower tempo game. When the reading skills of the children were tested afterwards, those who played the action game were capable of reading faster and more accurately. The authors of the study hypothesized that the action games helps kids increase their attention spans, a skill considered crucial to reading."" At first I was totally puzzled what does dyslexia have to do with video games then I read the last line that it helps attention spans.(something I have a hard time believing, and it's unclear who did the ""study"", there's no names). But anyways surely there's other ways to help attention spans. Now let us discuss another point if something is merely a band aid, it doesn't help the problem, it just temporarily quiets it. for example a power drink doesn't give one energy it just gives a boost of energy for a little while. This is such an example ""Dr. Daphne Maurer of the Visual Development Lab of Ontario's McMaster Universitymade a surprising discovery: People suffering from cataracts can improve their vision by playing first-person shooter games like Medal of Honor and Call of Duty. She believes these games are so fast-paced that they require an extreme amount of attention, training the visually impaired to view things more sharply. They can also produce higher levels of dopamine and adrenaline that ""potentially may make the brain more plastic,"" she said. Researchers found that following the 40 hours of game playing, the vision of five of the six patients showed signs of improvement. They were able to recognize faces more easily, as well as make out small print and judge the direction of moving dots"". If it""s due to dopamine and adrenaline how long do you think it lasts? (When I googled this study the first few things that came up were video game companies advertising with this.) ""Researchers from North Carolina state university looked closely at our aging population to see if there was a link between playing video games and mental well-being "" i.e. ""happiness."" They found that senior citizens who said they played video games "" even occasionally "" reported ""higher levels of happiness, or well-being,"" says Rick Nauert at PsychCentral. ""Those who did not play video games reported more negative emotions"" and were more likely to be depressed. It's unclear what exactly is behind this link "" or if the relationship is even causal."""" Sheer nonsense, this study can't prove anything obviously,it's from the most inconclusive and ambiguous studies i've ever seen. But even if there is a connection it's because those who play are more physically and mentally able than those that don't even occasionally play. And here comes my point why I think video games can be a terrible thing. Because I vehemently disagree with the following study you quoted. ""Video games improve your decision-making skills Most video games require fast reactions and split-second decisions that can mean the difference between virtual life and virtual death. Cognitive neuroscientists at the University of Rochester in New York found these games give players' brains plenty of practice for making decisions in the real world. Researchers suggest that action-oriented games act as a simulator for the decision-making process by giving players several chances to infer information from their surroundings and forcing them to react accordingly."" This is not just an issue of video games, this is a problem with our culture, that more and more people are living in virtual reality (tv,movies,video games) instead of actual reality. The problem with this is that even when people are dealing with real life, people and real life situations, they think their living in a movie or something. I can give you many examples but first there's no example like personal experience. I took a personal resolution when I was 16 not to watch fictional movies I kept it for close to 5 years. I can tell you as a fact that me only interacting with real life made me a different person. I used to be able to walk into a room and tell you who has a TV in their house and who doesn't, (Many religious Jews don""t have tvs.) people were just more real. And like I said this affects every area in life especially relationships. In real life there's no script, no one defines for you what your relationship should look like(to an outsider), how to express your love etc. In real life it's a big problem to hurt or embarrass someone (you could be crossing the street 10 years later when you see that person) but in a video game just press the restart button and every things great, even if you run someone over no big deal you got a few lives etc. etc.. I'm not arguing for absolute abstinence but video games are very obsessive (so there's a good chance you'll get stuck in it) and in the overall picture I think it did more harm than good for society. If you have the discipline to limit yourself to play for a certain amount of time that's great, if not I say at least play a game with another person against you (with you in the room) and better yet a board game (Risk rocks) or a card game. That was all my personal opinion but in any event i have to agree with the other guy who debated you that most of life decisions are not split second decisions so it""s not much of an advantage and on the contrary it could be to your disadvantage you may start making split second decisions when deliberation would have been the prudent thing to do. Just to conclude I'll quote your first argument ""Letting a 4-year-old sit in front of a TV with a game controller might not seem like the most productive use of her time. But researchers from Deakin University in Melbourne, Australia, would disagree. Their study examined the development of 53 preschool-aged children, and found that those who played ""interactive games"" had better ""object control motor skills"" than those who didn't. It's not clear, though, whether children with better-than-average motor skills tend to gravitate toward video games in the first place."" "" Here are two sites on line which discuss motor skills. There""s something called gross motor skills and fine motor skills http://en.wikipedia.org... http://childparenting.about.com.... What we are discussing is fine motor skills, which are most necessary for writing. I just hope that a child who at such a young age is heavily involved in video games will still be interested in reading when he/she get older."	CON	103
103	S3466ccde-Ab71125db	Video Games cause violence	"Your post is very interesting however let me point out some things. In your video saying that these are people whom were violent because of video games i'm just going to point out that I think for the better of the both of us rage DOES NOT count. The reason being video games may cause this however rage can come from any single thing in the universe. Failing/being taunted and raging don't seem like something to concern. For example some people rage at Justin Bieber but I don't think he 'causes' violence in any way (I may have explained badly but I think you know where I'm getting at.) My second point will be against those interesting documents in your reference a few things about them 1: They are from 2010 so the may not be accurate but for the sake of argument lets allow old sources. 2: This document (http://www.apa.org...) says specifically in the top video games only INCREASE (not cause) aggression in a minority of people however it goes on and says ""But for others, it may offer opportunities to learn new skills and improve social networking."" which is showing a positive effect instead of a negative aggressive affect 3: During an interview of some psychologists whom studied in this area (Lawrence Kutner and Cheryl K. Olson) On a April 16, 2008 interview on X-Play, Kutner and Olson noted that although some studies have claimed to show a link between video games and violent or aggressive behavior, most research in this area has been flawed. Also as you said your second document is about T.V so lets come back to that later if you wish as I am not sure if that can be applicable to video games Also a show named Penn and Teller BS on there episode about Video Games they also found that there was no link between violence and video games. It is worthwhile checking out this video. (I'll leave it in comments as the title has profanity and the site does not allow profanity in arguments References http://www.g4tv.com... (Kutner and Olson interview) The main problem with this debate is that different people are most likely affected in different ways. So for the sake of debate I request we single it down to a common group of people (Feel free to say no)"	CON	104
104	S3466ccde-A72f26973	Video Games cause violence	"Rebuttals 1. Defining ""cause"" The definition of cause is so: cause |kôz| noun 1 a person or thing that gives rise to an action, phenomenon, or condition: the cause of the accident is not clear. Though I understand what my opponent is getting at, by the literal definition of ""cause"", since the video game gave rise to the actions of rage and ensuing violence; it is thus considered a 'cause' by the literal definition. Had the video game not existed, at that particular moment in time, there would have been no violence occurring, thus making video games a cause for that instance of violence. Analogy: If you whip and beat an already violent person, and that person in turn becomes even more violent, the whipping and beating still can be rightfully attributed as an associated cause of said person's violence. This concept applies here, except in a less depressing sense. Even if anger issues, bad living conditions, or etc are other causes, video games can still be attributed as one. 2. The benefits discussed here and by the APA are irrelevant to this resolution Even if video games had extreme benefits that far outweighed it's negatives, those would be irrelevant as the topic of the debate is ""Video games cause violence"" If video games caused increased social skills in some, better reflexes in most, increased brainpower in a few, and violent or disturbed/aggressive behavior in a significant portion of the video gaming population, I still have filled my Burden of Proof that video games can be attributed as a ""cause to violence"" one way or another. 3. Legitimacy of Penn and Teller BS Penn and Teller BS is far from a reliable source and have seen large amounts of criticism for their supposed debunkings, which included concepts like Global Warming, the harmfulness of cigarettes on the body, and etc. [1] New Point A. Exposure to witnessing violence at a young age has been scientifically attributed as causing violent behavior in children later on. Why is this concept not applicable to witnessing on-screen violence? Children witnessing or having been exposed to violence has been psychologically attributed [2] to causing violence later on in their lives. Why would exposure to media violence be any different? Seeing a woman be killed and raped in front of your eyes has a detrimental effect on a child's brain development and a proven potential to prompt a violent future for that child. Why would seeing a woman be raped and killed through a television screen in games like Grand Theft Auto work any different? In fact, the AACAP recently released a study declaring that exposure to aggressive media violence has the same eventual effect that exposure to any aggressive violence may cause! [3] 1 - (http://www.sciencebasedmedicine.org...) 2 - (http://www.childtrends.org...) 3 - (http://www.aacap.org...)"	PRO	105
105	Secdfb6e3-A6c8d09a6	Video Games are a form of art.	"Thanks to Pro for posting what has, in recent years, been a topic of some controversy. Firstly, it would be easy for Con to win just by taking Pro's first two sentences ""Video games are a form of art because they are created. anything that is created is a form of art."" and point out that this definition would lead to absurdity; if anything that were created fell under the definition of art, then not only books or painting but also suitcases, bicycles, plastic cups and literally everything manufactured in some way would count as ""art"", voiding the word of any usefulness. However, I will take a more charitable interpretation and assume that what he means by art includes the act of ""enjoying and interacting"" with the creation and also that ""beauty"" comes into it. Now, given this definition, it is clear upon reflection that such a broad statement as ""Video Games are a form of art"" is simply not true; some video games are art, certainly; perhaps a majority, perhaps a minority, but a great many are not. Firstly, it is only relatively recently that games have become visually what anyone would consider to be beautiful. For example, to take a random example, outdated games like this one would not be considered beautiful [1] by any standard measure of the term. In addition, some games are poorly designed and thus not enyoyable to play. For instance, Superman for the nintendo 64 was released with a multiplicity of bugs and most of the game was filled with mind numbingly boring ring flying challenges [2]. I don't have a precise definition of ""Art"" - there is no uncontested definition. However, by the definition Pro has posted, the resolution is false. Some video games are art, some are not; however, all video games are not art. [1] http://en.wikipedia.org... [2] http://uk.gamespot.com..."	CON	106
106	Secdfb6e3-A40e6b328	Video Games are a form of art.	"[1] ""if anything that were created fell under the definition of art, then not only books or painting but also suitcases, bicycles, plastic cups and literally everything manufactured in some way would count as ""art"", voiding the word of any usefulness."" 1.) I never said that all video games are a great work of art, only that video games in general are a form of art. A suitcase that is designed beautifully and made from alligator skin is a work of art, where a plain black suitcase would not have much weight from an artistic point of view in todays world. A fancily designed bicycle with 3 seats that is made of gold could most assuredly be called a work of art, where a plain red bicycle might not carry the same artistic weight. I plain plastic cup might not be considered very artistic, but a cup made from plastic that is made into the shape of a lion's head, could most definitely considered art. Literally everything that is created or manufactured could be looked at as a great work of art, or not, but it is all in the personal perspective of the observer that gives it such a definition. Maybe you did not see the first video games as a work of art, but ask someone else, someone in the computer field from before video games were around what they think... they very well might say, ""What you did with this computer code was a work of art"". [2] ""Firstly, it is only relatively recently that games have become visually what anyone would consider to be beautiful. For example, to take a random example, outdated games like this one would not be considered beautiful by any standard measure of the term"" My opponent assumes his measurement for determining beauty is universal. There is no standard measurement for the term beauty, to assume so, is a stance of ignorance. I was around when the first video games were being made and played. I felt the games I was playing were very beautiful indeed and this was before Nintendo 64. Beauty is in the eye of the beholder... And so is art"	PRO	107
107	Sd761a450-A2b1eec6c	Video games are art	The games should be considered art, you need an artist or have drawing skills for making the graphics of the video games, look at the atmosphere, the characters, the enemies, look at the landscape, everything is made by draws that make the sprites or models, that make the art style of the video game, I mean, how Breath of the Wild can't be art, or video games in general? https://i.ytimg.com... http://sm.ign.com... https://encrypted-tbn0.gstatic.com... http://i13c.3djuegos.com... Look at Horizon Zero Down http://img1.meristation.com... http://cdn.gamer-network.net... https://media.playstation.com...$ Or Journey https://qph.ec.quoracdn.net... https://qph.ec.quoracdn.net... https://qph.ec.quoracdn.net... And Broken Age https://qph.ec.quoracdn.net... https://qph.ec.quoracdn.net... https://qph.ec.quoracdn.net... http://www.kotaku.co.uk... No one cared. I mean, why at least certain video games can't be art, but a few scratches and scribbles from Pollock are art? I mean, if those games were the scratches and scribbles of Pollock everybody would be missing, rverybody would be losing their mind.	PRO	108
108	Sdafffd65-A441828af	Video Games Are An Art Form	"First of all I would like to thank the contender for joining in this debate. Now I think in order to properly analyze and argue what you have argued we must define art. Webster's defines art as ""the quality, production, expression, or realm, according to aesthetic principles, of what is beautiful, appealing, or of more than ordinary significance. "" You make the contention that because video games are made of virtual images and pixels mean that it is not of artistic merit. I must say that whatever form art is made of does not dictate whether it is art or not. Would you discredit any film that uses computer generated imagery because it is not physically there? I'm sure if you spoke to anybody who programs for video games and created these ""virtual images"" you speak of you would know how hard work and artistry are required. You say that in your opinion ""killing and blood all over the place is not the type of art."" First of all not all video games feature blood and killing, in fact some of the most aesthetically beautiful games (Flower, Journey, Braid) feature no killing at all, and even so if games such as BioShock or The Walking Dead feature killing and blood, so what? Schindler's List features violence and ruthless killing, does that make that film inartistic? Or Saving Private Ryan? Or any painting that depicts violence? You also seem to say that animation creates the storyline in games and the gameplay itself is simply killing and inartistic nonsense, also I must say that games such as BioShock feature in-game storytelling by way of audio diaries recorded by people telling of the fall of a great city by way of the interior politics (the game itself is an indictment of Ayn Rand's Objectivist philosophy), and in Journey you yourself participate in all of the aesthetic beauty in the game, and even if in some games the story is told by cut-scenes and the gameplay itself doesn't carry much in storytelling I must again say this, so what? Cut-scenes are just as important to video games as gameplay, they give video games a way to tell the story in a way the uses angles and allows the creators of the game to create their artistic vision in the video game. If I have misinterpreted anything or left anything out please rebut."	PRO	109
109	Sfc3f97e0-A6a3193ea	Video Games Are Bad for You	I would like to end this horrible debate by saying that my opponent based a four-round debate off of one video he saw on YouTube. We have concluded: 1. Video games can be good, if only played a little. 2. Video games can be bad, if played a lot. 3. It is easy to become addicted to video games, even if you only play a little. As to Starcraft curing Dyslexia, I do not feel that I need to counter this argument. I trust that my audience has an I. Q. Level of above 5. I apologize to anyone who has wasted part of their life reading this argument; I regret it as well. Please leave a vote for this debate. Thanks for your consideration. Love, brandonpj21	PRO	110
110	S8b8b07a3-Ae9c7a0cd	Competitive video games are a sport.	As the definition for sports goes, with comparing that to video games, there is no physical exertion or activity during video gaming other then the movement of your eyes and the clicking of the mouse with your finger. This definitely does not constitute exercise or any type of sport. A 350 lbs person could be clicking buttons on the keyboard or mouse, but that is not a sport. In sport athletes need to stay in shape for physical endurance not drink Red Bull to stay awake to stare at a screen. Video games being a sport is like calling Chess playing a sport, it's not a sport, it's an activity like air hockey or lawn bowling. In video games players just play competitively against each other on a screen, in a digital world, we are not even talking about the real world. That would be like saying, watching tv competitively is a sport. Lets see how many Netflix shows you can binge watch in 36 hours.	CON	111
111	Sbd51665d-A45bfdd60	Video games are for loser Nerds	"The acquisition of TANG is important in contextualizing what your definition of ""nerd"" is. What has been proved is the irrelevancy of the tag of ""nerd"". If you so desire, feel free to debate the quantities of TANG acquired by ""nerds"". It has no bearing on the current discussion. The topic is if video games are intended for those you define as ""loser nerds"". As I have established, video games are capable of being playing by anyone. So them being ""loser nerds"" and how much TANG they receive matters not. If one were to say a nerd gets zero TANG, that would meet your definition. Now if that person were to play a video game, that does not necessarily make the game one that caters to this nerd and his lack of TANG. The ability of those who do get TANG to play video games, disproves the idea that they are only for those who are TANGless."	CON	112
112	Sd5fac21c-A86d76bf5	Video Games Are Good for You	My claim: Video games are good for you. Rules: -Provide convincing evidence on why video games are bad for you -Don't forfeit -First round is for acceptance Who's interested? (Remember, have fun!)	PRO	113
113	S5b6b25e-Aea7cf90f	Violent Video Games	"Hello and thank you for taking time to read this debate. For the purpose of clarification I will not state my intent to argue for the remainder of this debate. The Con will argue that the sale of violent video games to minors in the U.S. does not have a substantial effect on their actions and that there are other causes or reasons why young people commit violent acts. Here is my evidence. #1 - No connection between violence and games. Other causes like home life and and mental stability are the core. A PBS Report citing the findings of MIT Professor Henry Jenkins [1] ""The overwhelming majority of kids who play do NOT commit antisocial acts. According to a 2001 U.S. Surgeon General's report, the strongest risk factors for school shootings centered on mental stability and the quality of home life, not media exposure. The moral panic over violent video games is doubly harmful. It has led adult authorities to be more suspicious and hostile to many kids who already feel cut off from the system. It also misdirects energy away from eliminating the actual causes of youth violence and allows problems to continue to fester."" As we can see per the evidence there have been numerous studies AND in fact the surgeon general telling us that the exposure to violence based on video games is a factor that leads to violence. Compare this to my opponents evidence which is unobtainable so we cannot even test the validity of the entire study. As this is my opponents argument it is the only argument I need to win to win this debate but I will go ahead and provide more evidence bellow. #2 - Violent video games are in fact core to the development of children and their decision making skills. A PBS Report citing the findings of MIT Professor Henry Jenkins [1] ""On April 19, 2002, U.S. District Judge Stephen N. Limbaugh Sr. ruled that video games do not convey ideas and thus enjoy no constitutional protection. As evidence, Saint Louis County presented the judge with videotaped excerpts from four games, all within a narrow range of genres, and all the subject of previous controversy. Overturning a similar decision in Indianapolis, Federal Court of Appeals Judge Richard Posner noted: ""Violence has always been and remains a central interest of humankind and a recurrent, even obsessive theme of culture both high and low. It engages the interest of children from an early age, as anyone familiar with the classic fairy tales collected by Grimm, Andersen, and Perrault are aware."" Posner adds, ""To shield children right up to the age of 18 from exposure to violent descriptions and images would not only be quixotic, but deforming; it would leave them unequipped to cope with the world as we know it."" Many early games were little more than shooting galleries where players were encouraged to blast everything that moved. Many current games are designed to be ethical testing grounds. They allow players to navigate an expansive and open-ended world, make their own choices and witness their consequences. "" This quote is long but meaningful as it holds multiple reasons as to why children have to be exposed to violent video games. As explained, the article cites a district judge who explains why we have to protect the rights of children in exposing them to violence and thus the consequences of actions. They become as Posner writes ""The ethical testing grounds."" and so should be accessible to children. To back up this claim the article cites Posner who justifies this exposure with reference to the violent nursery rythmes and fairytales we already tell our children. Thus if you find even the slightest moral, ethical or logical justification for exposing children to violence you vote con. #3 - Video games aren't desensitizing. A PBS Report citing the findings of MIT Professor Henry Jenkins [1] ""Classic studies of play behavior among primates suggest that apes make basic distinctions between play fighting and actual combat. In some circumstances, they seem to take pleasure wrestling and tousling with each other. In others, they might rip each other apart in mortal combat. Game designer and play theorist Eric Zimmerman describes the ways we understand play as distinctive from reality as entering the ""magic circle."" The same action — say, sweeping a floor — may take on different meanings in play (as in playing house) than in reality (housework). Play allows kids to express feelings and impulses that have to be carefully held in check in their real-world interactions. Media reformers argue that playing violent video games can cause a lack of empathy for real-world victims. Yet, a child who responds to a video game the same way he or she responds to a real-world tragedy could be showing symptoms of being severely emotionally disturbed. "" Despite what the pro tells you, video games aren't desensitizing. As the evidence above explains, video games aren't meant to stimulate real emotional responses and thus aren't meant to show that a kid is disturbed simply because he laughs at death in a simulation. In fact they act as a release to feelings that are normally oppressed in 'reality' culture today. This answers the pro's only claim to violence and is thus a reason to vote con. #4 - Studies that conclude that violence in video games lead to more violence in kids are biased. Staff of Science 2.0 Report on the findings of Professor Patrick Kierkegaard of the University of Essex. [2] ""However, Kierkegaard explains, there is no obvious link between real-world violence statistics and the advent of video games. Despite several high profile incidents in US academic institutions, ""Violent crime, particularly among the young, has decreased dramatically since the early 1990s,"" says Kierkegaard, ""while video games have steadily increased in popularity and use. For example, in 2005, there were 1,360,088 violent crimes reported in the USA compared with 1,423,677 the year before. ""With millions of sales of violent games, the world should be seeing an epidemic of violence,"" he says, ""Instead, violence has declined."" Research is inconclusive, emphasises Kierkegaard."" The evidence goes a long way to win the con's because it states that really any study provided by the pro has no real world statistics to backup the nature of the findings and thus can only be limited to the theory which is invalid until there is evidence to support it. #5 - If your claim is true then why has the rise of video game sales been accompanied by a drop in violent crimes by children? Quote from Lawrence Kutner, PhD, and Cheryl K. Olson, ScD, co-founders of the Harvard Medical School Center for Mental Health [3] ""It’s clear that the ‘big fears’ bandied about in the press - that violent video games make children significantly more violent in the real world; that children engage in the illegal, immoral, sexist and violent acts they see in some of these games - are not supported by the current research, at least in such a simplistic form. That should make sense to anyone who thinks about it. After all, millions of children and adults play these games, yet the world has not been reduced to chaos and anarchy."" This statement and evidence is pretty damning to the case of my opponent because it poses a logical question that simply can't be answered by studies that are supposedly in support of the pro. This is because, as stated by the very qualified authors of my evidence, there has been no increase in violence even though violent video games are hot sellers. Thus there can be no conclusion for the pro because there is simply no real world proof. Thank you for your time and I look forward to my opponent's response! My Evidence (No abstract mining here) [1] - http://www.pbs.org... [2] - http://www.science20.com... [3] ""Grand Theft Childhood: The Surprising Truth about Violent Video Games"" by Lawrence Kutner, PhD, and Cheryl K. Olson, ScD, 2008."	CON	114
114	Sf888e5a8-A781bfc9b	Video Games are Sports	"Thank you for the humble response. I have checked your sources, and the definition that you provided for ""sport"" is definitely there. However, you should also put your eyes on the other definitions which also fit the criteria of video games. A second note on this, too, is that textbook definitions are dynamic.. Even if a dictionary's first entry says ""physical,"" I'm sure that it is subject to change, because there are too many other factors telling us that eSports are definitely ""sports."" You say that prize pools don't contribute to the idea of eSports being physical sports. This was not my intention; I know that video games are not especially physical! However, the prize pool certainly attests to eSports being ""true sports,"" such as your example of chess, which I will address soon. The reason that the money involved backs up the idea that they are sports is because it provides an example of how competitive they have become. It shows us that they are skill-based games that are taken very seriously at a professional level; thus, they are ""sports."" You may disagree with me due to your beliefs on the meaning of ""sports,"" but it's at that point that it becomes semantics. You say that eSports appear on a separate category, and you are correct, as they are not physical sports. They are indeed a subcategory, but they are still sports, hence e""Sports."" They are shown on ESPN because they are sports - after all, you said it yourself; they are a sports news source. It's an example of how close society is coming to accepting them as full-fledged ""sports,"" not just a subcategory; it's all for very good reason. Your quote from the London Chess Conference is very interesting. However, I argue that video games are very similar. While not always as intense (it depends on the game and importance of the specific match in question), physical readiness is always a factor in mental capability, and video games is no different in how it is required. It's all physiology, and it is very important. You also say that chess has been recognized as a sport by the International Olympic Committee since 2000, but that is irrelevant to your point. One day, video games could receive the same recognition - it may sound far-fetched to you, but it is quite plausible in retrospect. To summarize; the textbook definition of sport is dynamic and biased towards previous beliefs (those beliefs being that video games are not a sport, which is why the physical part was clarified in the first place), the prize pool of eSports serves as an example to how competitive it really is, and video games do in fact also require some form of physical preparation and readiness."	PRO	115
115	Secdfb6e3-A335e233a	Video Games are a form of art.	"1) If we are to take the resolution, instead of taking it in its literal sense to mean that video games have qualities such that they can, by definition, be categorised as ""Art"" and instead interpret the resolution (incorrectly grammatically) as meaning something like ""generally, video games can be classified as Art"" then fine - however, it is clear at that point that Pro has not fulfilled his burden of proof. He needs to show, not only that some video games can be classified as Art, but that a majority of video games can be classified as Art. Pro has brought forth no argument or evidence thus far to even attempt to fulfil such a burden of proof - either the former or the latter. In addition, he has yet to provide a definition of Art such that we can properly evaluate this question; my working definition derived from the first round will have to do apparently. For example, if the resolution were ""Plastic Cups are a form of art"" then, if we interpret the resolution as Pro does, he would have to provide evidence that a majority (or ""in general"") of cups are works of art. Pointing out exceptions such as novelty cups shaped like lion's heads will not do. It seems almost trivial to point out that an imagined conversation with someone from the past does not count as evidence - in any case, the resolution is that they *are* a work of Art, so even if they were considered beautiful in the past Pro has to show that they are a work of Art now, in the present tense. 2) If beauty is entirely subjective, then we have no real way of determining whether Video Games do fall into the definition of Art and thus it is impossible for Pro to prove the resolution. Things that are ""in the eye of the beholder"" cannot, by definition, be proven in a debate since they are not truth apt statements. If art is subjective, then I can simply say ""Well, I don't think video games ARE art"" and I will be just as right as you."	CON	116
116	Sc3b79282-Aa470fb2e	are video games good for teens	video games can boost your awareness of your surroundings they can make you more alert. you can actually learn math, science and other subjects in video games.	PRO	117
117	Saa60f638-Ae7ee067a	Video Games Are Harmful to Kids	A recent study conducted over the course of a decade involving children between the ages of 5-8 showed no harm or behaviorial problems were associated with video game playing. This has lead to the rather gleeful proclamation that video games are good for children. During the formative years, I can not see how playing video games can be anything but detrimental to adolescent development.	PRO	118
118	S5b6b23f-A1f8f496b	Violent Video Games	Thank you, Personguy4 for debating! I wish you good luck in your first debate. __________________________________________________________________ In this debate I will be debating against violent video games. I know that Personguy4 is a active video gamer, so I thought this would be a good debate for him and I. __________________________________________________________________ 1. Bad Influence Although video games have ratings, (E, E10+, T, M) most people do not follow this. Some parents let their children play games that they are not ready for. I know some kids when I was about 12 that were allowed to play any game they want, and listen to any kind of music they want. And most of these kids were so immature they were rated to act like 1st graders. These kids continuously used harsh language, and talk so much of war and death, it took a toll on them. They failed school, and were even denied by their parents. This is a effect of violent video games. These kids also are sexist, racist, and so rebellious. I remember that one got expelled from school, and...well lets just say a very large situation with the police for assault and attempted murder of a fellow classmate for a mere accidental push in the school halls. I was friends with this kid before this incident, before he acted like that. It appears he was starting to get addicted to video games. If you don't think that is not bad influence, then what is for you? Children playing violent video games for long periods of time: - Tend to be more aggressive - Are more prone to confrontation with their teachers - May engage in fights with their peers - See a decline in school achievements (http://www.pamf.org...) _____________________________________________________________________ This is the introduction for the debate, I will add more detail in the next rounds. Good luck!	CON	119
119	Sc4688886-Ade321d7	Video Games Are Bad For Teens	A lot of the time I will hear people say that video games are bad for a teenager's development. While there are a couple of things that could be bad for teenagers playing video games, there are far more good things it could lead to.	CON	120
120	S185c50aa-A572db213	Are Video Games A Sport	Many people say video games aren't a sport, well actually they are. Just because they aren't a physical sport doesn't mean they are not a sport, they are an eSport. You have to specify on what type of sport before you say video games are not a sport.	PRO	121
121	Sd645ce39-A9a1d164	video games help	"Video games improve preschoolers' motor skills Letting a 4-year-old sit in front of a TV with a game controller might not seem like the most productive use of her time. But researchers from Deakin University in Melbourne, Australia, would disagree. Their study examined the development of 53 preschool-aged children, and found that those who played ""interactive games"" had better ""object control motor skills"" than those who didn't. It's not clear, though, whether children with better-than-average motor skills tend to gravitate toward video games in the first place. Video games reduce stress and depression 2009's Annual Review of Cybertherapy and Telemedicine included a study that found that gamers who suffered from mental health issues such as stress and depression were able to vent their frustration and aggression by playing video games "" and showed a noted improvement. The study hypothesized that games gave certain ""Type A"" personalities time to relax in ""a state of relative mindlessness"" that allowed them to avoid reaching ""a certain level of stressful arousal"" as they tried to relax. Video games provide pain relief Video games don't just provide relief from emotional pain. They can also help those who are suffering from physical pain. Psychologists at the University of Washington developed a game that helps hospital patients suffering from immense physical pain by using an age-old mental trick: distraction. The virtual reality game ""Snow World"" put patients in an arctic wonderland in which they throw an endless arsenal of snowballs at a series of targets, such as penguins and snowmen. Military hospitals found the experience helped soldiers recovering from their battlefield wounds. The soldiers who played ""Snow World"" required less pain medicine during their recuperation. Video games can improve your vision Mom may have warned you that sitting in front of the TV wasn't good for your eyes. But one developmental psychologist found it could actually be beneficial to your vision. Dr. Daphne Maurer of the Visual Development Lab of Ontario's McMaster University made a surprising discovery: People suffering from cataracts can improve their vision by playing first-person shooter games like Medal of Honor and Call of Duty. She believes these games are so fast-paced that they require an extreme amount of attention, training the visually impaired to view things more sharply. They can also produce higher levels of dopamine and adrenaline that ""potentially may make the brain more plastic,"" she said. Researchers found that following the 40 hours of game playing, the vision of five of the six patients showed signs of improvement. They were able to recognize faces more easily, as well as make out small print and judge the direction of moving dots Video games improve your decision-making skills Most video games require fast reactions and split-second decisions that can mean the difference between virtual life and virtual death. Cognitive neuroscientists at the University of Rochester in New York found these games give players' brains plenty of practice for making decisions in the real world. Researchers suggest that action-oriented games act as a simulator for the decision-making process by giving players several chances to infer information from their surroundings and forcing them to react accordingly. Video games keep you happy in old age Researchers from North Carolina State University looked closely at our aging population to see if there was a link between playing video games and mental well-being "" i.e. ""happiness."" They found that senior citizens who said they played video games "" even occasionally "" reported ""higher levels of happiness, or well-being,"" says Rick Nauert at PsychCentral. ""Those who did not play video games reported more negative emotions"" and were more likely to be depressed. It's unclear what exactly is behind this link "" or if the relationship is even causal. Video Games May Slow The Aging Process Playing brain-teasing game for just two hours a week may help slow the degree of mental decay associated with the natural aging process, according to a study this year from the University of Iowa. A study of 681 healthy individuals ages 50 and older revealed that playing 10 hours of a specially designed video game was able to stall the natural decline of different cognitive skills by up to seven years, in some cases. Over five to eight weeks, one group of seniors was given computerized crossword puzzles while three other groups played a computer game called ""Road Tour."" The game involves matching pictures of vehicles while remembering the location of a particular road sign as more and more ""distractors"" appear as the player advanced. The experience is meant to mirror the difficulty older drivers have when they have to process information from multiple points of view at an intersection. ""Whether it's a specially manufactured game or something like 'World of Warcraft,' games are cognitively complex and require mental energy and abilities to play them,"" said Jason Allaire, an associate professor in the department of psychology at North Carolina State University in Raleigh, who was not involved with the study. ""Whenever you do anything that requires mental energy, you're exercising your abilities -- it's just like if you exercise your muscles, you get stronger."" They May Help Dyslexic Kids Read Better A study from the University of Padua throws cold water on the idea that video games are bad for the brains of young children. In February, the Italian researchers presented evidence that playing fast-paced video games can improve the reading skills of children with dyslexia. The team separated children age 7 to 13 into two groups, one of which played an action game called ""Rayman Raving Rabbids"" while the other played a lower tempo game. When the reading skills of the children were tested afterwards, those who played the action game were capable of reading faster and more accurately. The authors of the study hypothesized that the action games helps kids increase their attention spans, a skill considered crucial to reading."	PRO	122
122	Sd645ce1a-A9a1d164	video games help	"Video games improve preschoolers' motor skills Letting a 4-year-old sit in front of a TV with a game controller might not seem like the most productive use of her time. But researchers from Deakin University in Melbourne, Australia, would disagree. Their study examined the development of 53 preschool-aged children, and found that those who played ""interactive games"" had better ""object control motor skills"" than those who didn't. It's not clear, though, whether children with better-than-average motor skills tend to gravitate toward video games in the first place. Video games reduce stress and depression 2009's Annual Review of Cybertherapy and Telemedicine included a study that found that gamers who suffered from mental health issues such as stress and depression were able to vent their frustration and aggression by playing video games "" and showed a noted improvement. The study hypothesized that games gave certain ""Type A"" personalities time to relax in ""a state of relative mindlessness"" that allowed them to avoid reaching ""a certain level of stressful arousal"" as they tried to relax. Video games provide pain relief Video games don't just provide relief from emotional pain. They can also help those who are suffering from physical pain. Psychologists at the University of Washington developed a game that helps hospital patients suffering from immense physical pain by using an age-old mental trick: distraction. The virtual reality game ""Snow World"" put patients in an arctic wonderland in which they throw an endless arsenal of snowballs at a series of targets, such as penguins and snowmen. Military hospitals found the experience helped soldiers recovering from their battlefield wounds. The soldiers who played ""Snow World"" required less pain medicine during their recuperation. Video games can improve your vision Mom may have warned you that sitting in front of the TV wasn't good for your eyes. But one developmental psychologist found it could actually be beneficial to your vision. Dr. Daphne Maurer of the Visual Development Lab of Ontario's McMaster University made a surprising discovery: People suffering from cataracts can improve their vision by playing first-person shooter games like Medal of Honor and Call of Duty. She believes these games are so fast-paced that they require an extreme amount of attention, training the visually impaired to view things more sharply. They can also produce higher levels of dopamine and adrenaline that ""potentially may make the brain more plastic,"" she said. Researchers found that following the 40 hours of game playing, the vision of five of the six patients showed signs of improvement. They were able to recognize faces more easily, as well as make out small print and judge the direction of moving dots Video games improve your decision-making skills Most video games require fast reactions and split-second decisions that can mean the difference between virtual life and virtual death. Cognitive neuroscientists at the University of Rochester in New York found these games give players' brains plenty of practice for making decisions in the real world. Researchers suggest that action-oriented games act as a simulator for the decision-making process by giving players several chances to infer information from their surroundings and forcing them to react accordingly. Video games keep you happy in old age Researchers from North Carolina State University looked closely at our aging population to see if there was a link between playing video games and mental well-being "" i.e. ""happiness."" They found that senior citizens who said they played video games "" even occasionally "" reported ""higher levels of happiness, or well-being,"" says Rick Nauert at PsychCentral. ""Those who did not play video games reported more negative emotions"" and were more likely to be depressed. It's unclear what exactly is behind this link "" or if the relationship is even causal. Video Games May Slow The Aging Process Playing brain-teasing game for just two hours a week may help slow the degree of mental decay associated with the natural aging process, according to a study this year from the University of Iowa. A study of 681 healthy individuals ages 50 and older revealed that playing 10 hours of a specially designed video game was able to stall the natural decline of different cognitive skills by up to seven years, in some cases. Over five to eight weeks, one group of seniors was given computerized crossword puzzles while three other groups played a computer game called ""Road Tour."" The game involves matching pictures of vehicles while remembering the location of a particular road sign as more and more ""distractors"" appear as the player advanced. The experience is meant to mirror the difficulty older drivers have when they have to process information from multiple points of view at an intersection. ""Whether it's a specially manufactured game or something like 'World of Warcraft,' games are cognitively complex and require mental energy and abilities to play them,"" said Jason Allaire, an associate professor in the department of psychology at North Carolina State University in Raleigh, who was not involved with the study. ""Whenever you do anything that requires mental energy, you're exercising your abilities -- it's just like if you exercise your muscles, you get stronger."" They May Help Dyslexic Kids Read Better A study from the University of Padua throws cold water on the idea that video games are bad for the brains of young children. In February, the Italian researchers presented evidence that playing fast-paced video games can improve the reading skills of children with dyslexia. The team separated children age 7 to 13 into two groups, one of which played an action game called ""Rayman Raving Rabbids"" while the other played a lower tempo game. When the reading skills of the children were tested afterwards, those who played the action game were capable of reading faster and more accurately. The authors of the study hypothesized that the action games helps kids increase their attention spans, a skill considered crucial to reading."	PRO	123
123	Sd645cdfb-A9a1d164	video games help	"Video games improve preschoolers' motor skills Letting a 4-year-old sit in front of a TV with a game controller might not seem like the most productive use of her time. But researchers from Deakin University in Melbourne, Australia, would disagree. Their study examined the development of 53 preschool-aged children, and found that those who played ""interactive games"" had better ""object control motor skills"" than those who didn't. It's not clear, though, whether children with better-than-average motor skills tend to gravitate toward video games in the first place. Video games reduce stress and depression 2009's Annual Review of Cybertherapy and Telemedicine included a study that found that gamers who suffered from mental health issues such as stress and depression were able to vent their frustration and aggression by playing video games "" and showed a noted improvement. The study hypothesized that games gave certain ""Type A"" personalities time to relax in ""a state of relative mindlessness"" that allowed them to avoid reaching ""a certain level of stressful arousal"" as they tried to relax. Video games provide pain relief Video games don't just provide relief from emotional pain. They can also help those who are suffering from physical pain. Psychologists at the University of Washington developed a game that helps hospital patients suffering from immense physical pain by using an age-old mental trick: distraction. The virtual reality game ""Snow World"" put patients in an arctic wonderland in which they throw an endless arsenal of snowballs at a series of targets, such as penguins and snowmen. Military hospitals found the experience helped soldiers recovering from their battlefield wounds. The soldiers who played ""Snow World"" required less pain medicine during their recuperation. Video games can improve your vision Mom may have warned you that sitting in front of the TV wasn't good for your eyes. But one developmental psychologist found it could actually be beneficial to your vision. Dr. Daphne Maurer of the Visual Development Lab of Ontario's McMaster University made a surprising discovery: People suffering from cataracts can improve their vision by playing first-person shooter games like Medal of Honor and Call of Duty. She believes these games are so fast-paced that they require an extreme amount of attention, training the visually impaired to view things more sharply. They can also produce higher levels of dopamine and adrenaline that ""potentially may make the brain more plastic,"" she said. Researchers found that following the 40 hours of game playing, the vision of five of the six patients showed signs of improvement. They were able to recognize faces more easily, as well as make out small print and judge the direction of moving dots Video games improve your decision-making skills Most video games require fast reactions and split-second decisions that can mean the difference between virtual life and virtual death. Cognitive neuroscientists at the University of Rochester in New York found these games give players' brains plenty of practice for making decisions in the real world. Researchers suggest that action-oriented games act as a simulator for the decision-making process by giving players several chances to infer information from their surroundings and forcing them to react accordingly. Video games keep you happy in old age Researchers from North Carolina State University looked closely at our aging population to see if there was a link between playing video games and mental well-being "" i.e. ""happiness."" They found that senior citizens who said they played video games "" even occasionally "" reported ""higher levels of happiness, or well-being,"" says Rick Nauert at PsychCentral. ""Those who did not play video games reported more negative emotions"" and were more likely to be depressed. It's unclear what exactly is behind this link "" or if the relationship is even causal. Video Games May Slow The Aging Process Playing brain-teasing game for just two hours a week may help slow the degree of mental decay associated with the natural aging process, according to a study this year from the University of Iowa. A study of 681 healthy individuals ages 50 and older revealed that playing 10 hours of a specially designed video game was able to stall the natural decline of different cognitive skills by up to seven years, in some cases. Over five to eight weeks, one group of seniors was given computerized crossword puzzles while three other groups played a computer game called ""Road Tour."" The game involves matching pictures of vehicles while remembering the location of a particular road sign as more and more ""distractors"" appear as the player advanced. The experience is meant to mirror the difficulty older drivers have when they have to process information from multiple points of view at an intersection. ""Whether it's a specially manufactured game or something like 'World of Warcraft,' games are cognitively complex and require mental energy and abilities to play them,"" said Jason Allaire, an associate professor in the department of psychology at North Carolina State University in Raleigh, who was not involved with the study. ""Whenever you do anything that requires mental energy, you're exercising your abilities -- it's just like if you exercise your muscles, you get stronger."" They May Help Dyslexic Kids Read Better A study from the University of Padua throws cold water on the idea that video games are bad for the brains of young children. In February, the Italian researchers presented evidence that playing fast-paced video games can improve the reading skills of children with dyslexia. The team separated children age 7 to 13 into two groups, one of which played an action game called ""Rayman Raving Rabbids"" while the other played a lower tempo game. When the reading skills of the children were tested afterwards, those who played the action game were capable of reading faster and more accurately. The authors of the study hypothesized that the action games helps kids increase their attention spans, a skill considered crucial to reading."	PRO	124
124	Sa9323a86-Ae6b0bd04	Video games are the fall of humanity	Ummm hasty generalization us as a community do not all play video games. The fall of humanity is way into our future past where there is call of duty or time to do things as simple minded as video games. As a human race we will be focused on creating our future, games just help us get there.	CON	125
125	S76692401-A87dff745	Are Video Games Too Expensive	You cant claim something is expensive. It depends on the person. If I said I wanted to get DBZ game and it was 70$ I might its not expensive because of how much money I have. for example if I had 1000000000 $ and I wanted to buy a video game I would think its not expensive. And there are other things in the world that are more expensive then video games. And some video games are 15$ or lower so you cant claim that all is expensive	CON	126
126	Sadb55d1d-A5aafcdb6	Video Games are a good thing	"My worthy opponent as I said earlier - many surveys are taken and the result is that the video games are not a good thing. So we cannot neglect them...some of them are - The Entertainment Software Association states that 20% of video game players are boys under the age of 17, 26% are over 50 (regardless of gender), and that the average game player is 34. In a survey of 1,102 teenagers aged 12 to 17, 97% of them said that they play video games. The most concerning statistic has to deal with the fact that young people are routinely able to get their hands on video games that are rated ""M"" (mature) or ""AO"" (adults only); however, few games have earned the AO rating. Three-quarters of parents who were surveyed said that they check the ratings on their kid's games. However, half of the boys who were asked about their favorite game listed a game with an ""M"" or ""AO"" rating as their favorite, compared with 14% of girls. And there are so many incidents in our society and they are taking place only because of the video games. We have to think about them also. One of them are - - On November 29, 2010 in South Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 16-year-old boy Kendall Anderson bludgeoned his mother to death in her sleep with a claw hammer after she took away his play station. Many of the parents don't know about the games - how it is? They buy what their children say and even most of the children don't bother all about this. They only think about their entertainment and nothing more."	CON	127
127	S4b5a7a70-A82c36e3d	Video Games are the new art form	"I wish my opponent luck. Video Games can give deep insights My opponent mentioned within a fairly long paragraph that video games can go into several deeper subjects. Now, 1) The majority of players playing video games, correct me if I'm wrong, often do not look for a ""deeper"" meaning as they play their video games they just play it to have fun and I believe most creators of videogames do not intend so either. You mentioned a game called ""The Mass Effect Series"" where during your gameplay, you were thinking ""How would I like it if they did that to me?"" 1) It's a video game not real life. 2) If you take a video game like the ""Grand Theft Auto Series"" When players are just killing random civilians, running over pedestrians, stealing cars, etc. I don't think one person is saying ""How would I like it if they did that to me?"" so therefore I don't see insights in most video games. Video Games can be interpreted differently So can just about everything else. Video Games Are Art Not a great idea to state that considering you are willing to debate about that. This is a complete opinion. Video Games Sound Great Also an opinion although I agree with you. As for art: Art provides expression, communication, exploration, imagination, cultural and historical understanding, the list goes on and on. What does videogames provide aside from entertainment. For many students, Art is their prime motivation for coming to school whereas kids do not complete their homework because they are too busy playing video games. Also, with video games there are hundreds of stories of people not getting a job because they are addicted to video games. Look at this http://serendip.brynmawr.edu... Now, video games are fun with moderation. Good Luck!"	CON	128
128	S3466ccde-A78943e86	Video Games cause violence	"Rebuttals and Refutations I will note for my opponent that I will not be available tomorrow from 1pm to early morning/midnight, and almost all day Sunday. If this results in me forfeiting a round due to the 24 hour span, then the voters may judge conduct appropriately. 1. GTA V and violent crimes argument I will admit that this was an argument I was expecting. To rebut my opponent's point about the lack of a major increase in crime among juveniles, I will argue that violence does not always occur in the form of a crime. Violence, as stated above, can be summarized as any use of unjust aggression or force. Modern society has educated and raised young people by the thinking that committing violent crimes is a stupid thing to do, and young people are smart enough to realize that. However, that doesn't mean no violence has occurred as a result of video gaming. 2. Unrealistic video games The resolution of this debate is ""Video games cause violence"", not ""All video games cause violence"". Whilst some video games, explicitly things like video games for toddlers, obviously have almost zero chance of prompting violent behavior, I have still filled my BOP that Video Game(s) have prompted violence. 3. The brain In a growing brain and in a society where media and real life are almost extremely mixed together, and where some people meet their closest friends, wed, and earn fortunes through the pixels of a computer screen, I would say that violence demonstrated on this platform most definitely has the potential to cause an imitating effect, especially if the juvenile in question has never known anything other than what society is now. -- no sources necessary this round --"	PRO	129
129	Sa7073d00-A6d8d8a70	Video games are an innocent hobby!	"On the Disad 1: Nonunique: The probability of a child curbstomping someone from playing 5 hours of Gears of War is small. The last time ANYTHING like that has happened was about three years ago, when Manhunt came out! MUCH worse games have come, and this hasn't happened. I just played Halo for about an hour, And I played about 50 people. NONE of them have gone out and killed anyone in the last year! Solvency: Yes, shooting people isn't innocent. But you can't claim a game like Mario Brothers ""juvinile!"" Thats what I mean by Innocent. BUT: once again, the chances of a kid going out and killing is small. Also, the ESRB rates games, and it is illegal to buy an M-Rated game under 18, so the only way for a kid to get it is a PARENT. No good parent would buy a game like that for a kid with a problem! 2. Yes, hobby is true. Video games are mainly used as a quick output for fun. It HAS come to a point where there are gamer jobs, but most gamers are just either kids, or adults around 35.(Except for Wii gamers, which I will get to later.) And in my house, SCHOOL BEFORE GAMES. It's the parents job to control it, and it shouldn't be taken as a juvinile crime. 3. What exactly do you mean by the stability of video games? Please explain. Impacts(Answers): 1. Video games don't kill. Not many cases of kids having warped minds. I played Mortal Kombat when I was 4, I'm not a killer! Not all games are violent, so video games in GENERAL can't be seen as bad. Some are even educational!(Leapster,Vsmile, etc) 2. It actually does rid the problem. Games are DESIGNED to make you get up, and games are in production so that you CAN't sit. Wii fit is an example. It comes with a balance board, so you must get up. Also, Wii sports DOES require Some movement! DDR is the same idea. Also, think about if it is raining, or snowing, or even cold. Would you play baseball in the snow? The Wii is also used in Rehab, so when people CAN'T go outside, they get excersize. And think about if you have the chicken pox, or something. Can't leave your house? Play Wii, DDR, Eyetoy, or Etc! 3. It actually does boost connections. I can't play baseball with my friends in China, India, or anywhere else BUT my town everyday, but I can with a game system. I also use my Xbox 360 as commmunication with my cousin in California!(Im in Illinois) We have fun, and talk at the same time. I am not saying that you should play video games ALL the time(I do agree some fresh air is needed every once in a while) But I am saying they aren't bad, and are ok. In conclusion, Video games RARELY cause violence, are changing to help keep in shape, and can help network the world. Thank you for a fun debate! I thought debating about video games would be a fun change from the Iran, Iraq, war stuff! Good luk in the next argument!"	PRO	130
130	S7d4cf2e8-Aa9eafc10	are video games better than board games	Sure Video games to some people is a waste of time but Whether playing video games has negative effects is something that has been debated for 30 years, in much the same way that rock and roll, television, and even the novel faced similar criticisms in their time. Purported negative effects such as addiction, increased aggression, and various health consequences such as obesity and repetitive strain injuries tend to get far more media coverage than the positives. I know from my own research examining both sides that my papers on video game addiction receive far more publicity than my research into the social benefits of, for example, playing online role-playing games. However there is now a wealth of research which shows that video games can be put to educational and therapeutic uses, as well as many studies which reveal how playing video games can improve reaction times and hand-eye co-ordination. For example, research has shown that spatial visualization ability, such as mentally rotating and manipulating two- and three-dimensional objects, improves with video game playing.	PRO	131
131	Scfd4c48a-A6cdbf260	Video games cause bad behavior.	My opponent has yet to provide an argument as to why playing video games causes bad behavior. Whether she thinks video games are bad or not is her opinion, but she has absolutely no argument to support her claim as of yet. For the sake of debate I'll make a quick argument. Video games do not cause bad behavior for the following two reasons. 1. Video games promote cognitive skills and hand-eye coordination which are things people need in life. Video games also can be used for educational purposes such as the LeapFrog software that helps teach people. 2. In real life this theory is completely untrue, more and more people play video games and yet there has not been a drastic increase in crime. Furthermore, almost everybody plays some form of video games these days, and yet people are as nice as they've always been	CON	132
132	S4b5a7a70-Ae8c1d0c6	Video Games are the new art form	"Video games can give deep insights ""While I agree with this point, I don't see it as a valid argument for saying that video games are not an art."" Whether people agree with you or not about video games being an art, it is obviously not taking over regular art and is ""the new art"" based on the statement we both agree on. ""Developers spend years working on a game, spending more time than they have to so that their game is amazing."" How does this prove that they intend to give deep insights. They spend most of their time making it fun not so we can learn a lesson. ""There are tons of books and movies that very loosely resemble our way of life, yet still are deep."" True, but my point was that the majority of people playing video games, voters out there who play video games correct me if I'm wrong, will not say ""How would I like it if he did that to me."" ""the go to game series for anyone opposed to video games"" I'm assuming you think that I am against video games and that is a false statement. I believe they haven't contributed to society aside from providing some people with money but I like some video games like Grand theft Auto. Call of Duty, Pac Man, Galaga, Doodle Jump. None of these games I have asked myself ""How would I like it if they did that to me? ""they're might be some deep games"" It doesn't matter that there might be some deep insights within some games. But there is no doubt that video games, for most people, is not a reference for insight. Now, let me tell you what is: Literature books, Religious books, philosophers writings etc. ""not every video game is great."" Grand Theft Auto is actually a really popular game a quick Google search will prove my point. One of the most popular games out there is Call of Duty. What deep insights does it give you? Video games can be interpreted differently dropped Video games are art I'm assuming you agree with what I said. Video games sound great ""they let relatively introverted people interact and be social in an environment they feel comfortable in"" Whoa!!!!!!! You think this is good?! For people who are shy just crawl in their room and play video games instead of being with friends. I'm inferring you are not a very social person. ""they can teach you advance problem solving skills"" Can you elaborate a little? Do you mean everyday problems that come up? If so, being in your room playing video games doesn't help. Reading books might and studying the problem. ""they teach people how to work towards and achieve a goal"" How? ""they touch a multitude of idea that can make a player think about them in a different way"" So does literature and hearing different Ideas ""they can teach players about real world subjects, be it math or terrorism"" So does school ""they can lead players to have much more strategic thinking"" So does sports which all parents prefer over playing video games because they like their kids being active. So far no legit points of what video games provided ""just because someone is addict to something or not does not determine whether it qualifies as an art"" Fine, but if they were to become the new art it would be bad because of the many addictions and bad things video games have caused. ""The fact is that people are going to school for video games every day"" What are you talking about there is no video games class?! Video games have no academic benefit I really hope everybody agrees with that. This is not a fact. ""There's no doubt that schools have embraced video games as a new art."" Do you see in art classes any video games? I'm pretty sure literature teachers tell their kids to read and not play video games. I'm sure that all teachers say no video games until you finish your homework. If you would like to convince me that teachers ""embrace video games"" give me proof."	CON	133
133	Sfb5d4733-A6180a64e	Contender chooses topic (Video Games)	Gays play video games. What gays do is evil. Gays can rape people who play video games. Thing that gays do are evil. People who play video games are gay. Video games are evil. Video games can make people gay. Gay people are evil. By the way it's a rap battle.	PRO	134
134	S3307f209-A7ad6d29a	Ban the sale of violent video games	"If someone plays a lot of a superman video game will they think they can fly? Rebuttal ""Violent video games are teaching are kids to be violent. It is a known fact that we learn by repetition. By allowing children to play violent video games it starts to desensitize them at an early age to the effects of violence. These games were originally designed for military training to help soldiers overcome their hesitancy in shooting the enemy."" This is simply untrue. Altered versions of doom and America's Army were used to train soldiers in team work not killing. ""Video Game Violence and Why It Should End Video games these days are now just shooting and killing. Children play these games for entertainment and I know that they are fun, because I play them too. But this is a serious thing. Children do not need to play violent games because games can influence children to do so. People say,""Oh, my son promised to never act like that,"" or,""Tyler loves these games and he keeps asking for a BB gun"". The BB gun may be just for fun, but soon he'll get a real gun."" Yes this is sort of correct a person who likes first person shooters may want to get a gun. Please show me how guns increase violence. ""Violent video games like MWF3 or Call of Duty or Assassins Creed are insults to military men. They're at war, fighting for our country, and you've got your butt on a couch, laughing at people who are getting shot on a video game. This is a serious offense to soldiers. And what if you played these games and someone you love is in the military."" Which is why so many ""military men"" play video games [1] and furthermore why video games are used as PTSD therapy. ""Those Who voted 'No' are delusional fools. It's plainly obvious, video games make people of all ages agitated and aggressive."" As a gamer I have been described as aggressive but I have never been described as agitated. ""I've seen it in my nephews and niece and there are countless studies available at your finger tips."" Where are these studies? ""Yes violent video games should be banned!! Police have linked several violent cases to violent video games. For example a 8 year old boy oblivious to the real life fact that if you shot someone in real life they would die and not come back, took out a gun and shot is grandmother. His grandmother did die and did not come back. He is now facing life in prison after juvenile hall of course for something he didn't realize was bad in the first place. Video games pump things into children's heads so bad these days they have no way of knowing the difference between real life and video game life."" There is no link for this but it sounds like a case of serious and abnormal delusion not caused by video games. Most of the rest of your argument actually supports me either that or it's simply news reports with no evaluation of the facts. My argument The case for the ban of violent video games seems to be based on the assumption that violent video games cause violence whereas in fact the increased use of violent video games has shown to have no noticeable effect on the murder rate [3]. Furthermore what is a violent video game? There is no often adhered to definition and I think this causes a problem as it allows for censorship of controversial content. [1] http://uk.ign.com... [2] http://kotaku.com... [3] http://thepublicintellectual.org..."	CON	135
135	Sfadd659c-Ab9ed24c5	Are video games corrupting children	"OK, I am well aware of the studies that you speak of. As for the ""certain studies"" that create violent behavior. These studies have been done for a long time, and the only thing that they have is the things that you have listed. All of the things you have listed is NOT because of video games, but merely a reaction that someone (who obviously has mental problems) got mad about their parents taking away their psp or halo 3 and reacted in a horrible way. However in both of these instances it does not matter about what was taken away, it is about the child's problems. These problems are so little and happen in a ratio of one to one hundred thousand. But the media wants to inflate it to something that is not a problem. As for the couple that let their baby die. That was just bad parenting, once again it lies in the people not the thing. It is very possible that video games change your brain. As a neurology major, I understand all to well that a lot of things can change your brain. Not just video games, but the statement that violent video games make kids more violent is absurd. The fact is that people get more angry than others. I could run a study on kids that swim and kids that do not swim and say that the majority of them are angry. It does not matter that the kids are swimming, some are just angrier than others. It has been great debating with you sir."	CON	136
136	Se55cb0cf-A194b7dd4	Video Games Are Art	"In the April of 2010, renowned film critic Roger Ebert released a think piece on his website entitled ""Video games can never be art"". This multi-piece argument emphasized that due to the financial incentives behind game development, a lack of culturally significant titles, and the conventions of video games being more similar to sports than other art forms automatically discredited video games as a considerable force in the movement of artistic expression. Reception to this article from ""gamers"" was understandably unenthusiastic. Only a few months later did Roger Ebert apologize for his piece, conceding that it was rash and his arguments were not well organized or thought out. Saying that he was without a clear-cut definition as to what ""art"" is and admitting to not playing many games to give him confidence in his claims that commerce and entertainment are emphasized more than anything of artistic value. Seven years later and with plenty of thinking on my end along with many controversies in the gaming industry either it be the Gamergate movement, or for a more recent example, the push for lootboxes in big name titles, has led me to believe that it's about time this argument is brought back from the dead. I stand by the claim that video games are NOT art. Neither by the technicality of dictionary definitions nor by the more abstract notion that art can be anything in the eye of the beholder. My arguments, which I will further explore in subsequent rounds emphasize that the elements that make video games ""artistic"" do not belong to the gaming medium, that gamer culture itself discourages games with artistic value, many critically acclaimed games are purely for fun, and that the financial incentive in modern games undermines artistic value with commerce (but not in the way Roger Ebert argued). To anyone who accepts this debate, this first round is open to your opening statements and arguments you wish to present in subsequent rounds. As far as pure 'argue/rebuttal' goes, that will be entirely dependent on which points you wish to address, as you do not need to find a counter argument to every claim I make and the same goes for me. And finally, I want to clarify that while I completely and unironically proclaim that the video game medium is not an art form, that does not mean that I do not see all games as devoid of artistic value. I will be bringing up games that I believe fit that bill in order to support my own arguments. That, and I wouldn't actually go out of my way to tell people to stop calling video games art. Because that would make me a jerk. I also encourage that those who will eventually be voting do so by the quality of our arguments, and not by if you agree or disagree, as I understand that my position is a pushy subject. Also, please only accept this challenge if you are willing to commit to all 5 rounds. I await a challenge!"	CON	137
137	Sc51b1af2-Aa2958ad2	Video games make you violent	Con's final response: violence isn't caused by video games they are not designed for that. Cars aren't designed to kill pedestrians. Design can and does fail. === My burden of proof (BOP), from Rnd1, was: video games cause a nonzero amount of violence. Con doesn't contest this. Two proofs: 1: Video games make me foul. Con has no standing arguments against my testimony. 2: Video games make others violent. Con concedes the video proof that video games caused this violence. I've fulfilled my BOP.	PRO	138
138	Sc827393f-Ae97b37d5	violent video games should be banned	Violent video games can improve our economy with high ratings. 2. Violent video games provide a safe outlet for angry feelings. (2007 study). 3. Violent video game ratings are going up, while murder rates have gone down. 4. Violent video games show violence, however people who play these video games do not use this violence in the real world. Refute to opponent's arguments Violent video games can do good because it gives people a chance to let their anger out.	CON	139
139	S74862f47-Af3930a6d	Video games should be censored	"Sorry I had to forfeit round 3 due to tight scheduling. I thank my opponent for forfeiting round 3 with me, I am sorry for any inconveniences it caused him. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- my opponents stated that the first amendment protects us from censoring video games, when in fact it does the exact opposite. The first amendment says that we have the right to produce video games with inappropriate content, not that we CAN'T censor them. We CAN censor video games and just because the first amendment allows 'bad' content, that does not make it the right thing to do. He also states that the more we discuss this topic, we are getting more off topic. I believe that we have been on topic this entire time. I apologize for my miss-read. I took 'looking over' as the same as 'overlooking.' Apparently you have responsible parents, but you must realize that not all parents are like that. some do overlook ratings. Again I apologize for my miss-read My opponents third point, although I give him credits it was a nice try, has a fatal flaw. If I were to be living in a house were the residence was filled with dirty language and cussing, after only a short period of time it would become mentally abusive. I know what you are going to say ' because the parent views the language as acceptable, it is okay.' Well, let me put it this way, WRONG. Thanks for pointing it out for me 'it's not exactly ethical.' You are stating that the government will not intervene unless the child receives any type of abuse, still, cussing and violence are not okay. no matter how you put it. You also stated that is okay as long as the parents don't hurt the child in the process. All of that cussing and violence will hurt the child in the long run, they will be scared for life after hearing and seeing those types of things. And because of these reasons I am still asking myself ""what the crap is he talkin' bout'!"" I have to say your definition of okay, and mine, are to different things. Finally for some strange reason my opponent has yet to see that all along I have been addressing 'we' as the world, the US, and the entire video game industry. I have no jurisdiction over the video game industry so if I were to say, 'I should censor video games, or you and I should censor video games' not possible. I encourage a fair voting period for this debate, this means please vote on who won the debate, not which side YOU think should win without even reading our debate. Because censoring video games is the right thing to do, VOTE PRO."	PRO	140
140	S76692401-A94f49ae7	Are Video Games Too Expensive	Games are way too expensive because I only have about 10 video games and I am 12 years old and I bought games whenever I could	PRO	141
141	S65056c6e-A532eb923	Video Games is Ruining Society	"Thanks you for accepting. First, I would like to define ""ruin"" using the Merriam-Webster dictionary (not that your definition was fine): Ruin- /verb/ ""to reduce to ruins"" http://www.merriam-webster.com... I would like to start off my argument with the subject of: TEEN VIOLENCE IN RELATION TO VIDEO GAMES In 2004, 3 teens under the age of 18 murdered a homeless man in a disturbing fashion. The teens told police that killing the man reminded him of playing a video game. http://articles.cnn.com... In 2007, 17 year old Daniel Petric shot both of his parents due to them taking away his video game. He fled the scene with nothing but a copy of ""Halo 3."" Petric's attorney stated that Daniel was dangerously addicted to Halo 3. There are many more stories like these of under age teens going off killing people under the influence of video games. My next subject: VIDEO GAME ADDICTION Reading the article that you referenced to, I saw that 1 out of 8 gamers develop patterns similar to addiction. Now just think that 97% of teens play video games. http://www.csmonitor.com... I will now define ""addict"" /noun/ to devote or surrender (oneself) to something habitually or obsessively By just reading the definition you will know that this is something that is not healthy. Video game addiction can cause extreme anger and verbal abuse, nausea, physical illness, restless taunting dreams, anxiety, depression, mood swings, fear, irritability or restlessness, sadness, and loneliness. Remember, today's children are tomorrow's future. If we have a society addicted to video games and going off killing people nothing will be accomplished and therefore society will be ruined."	PRO	142
142	S75fbfa8d-Acd20b085	Violent video games, banning of	I agree that people should be able to do what they want in there free time but within reason if it is something that causes them harm then why let them do that to them self's. There is a specific issue of copycat crimes which is when a player of a game will copy what they see happening on the game they are playing. I am not trying to stop you playing your games because of one 14 year old boy there are many other cases like this there was a teenager in America who killed 3 men because he was imitating what he saw in his video game or a teenager who set of a car bomb killing and killed 77 people with that and a few other attacks as well, or a 16 year old was banned from playing halo 3 so stole his parents gun and shot his mum in the head and his dad although his dad survived and this teenager blamed what he did on video game addiction or the 17 year old that bet a 7 year old girl to death trying out move she had seen in a video game. There are many more cases I could give but I do not think I need to because it only takes one horrible death to realize that people have died and for what so that people can get hooked on a video game and play it for 3 hours a day instead of doing other things that could be so much more beneficial to them?! Playing violent video games normalises violence to many people and the difference between watching someone shoot someone else on tv and doing that your self on a video game is that in a game you can be the one pulling the trigger, making the decision to kill someone. You do not need statistics to see that these video games are hurting people and not doing any good how many more innocent people have to die before we wake up and do what is best for society and ban these violent video games.	PRO	143
143	S5dce2de2-A7f8e107c	is video games bad for kids	"The American Academy of Pediatrics, American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, American Psychological Association, American Medical Association, American Academy of Family Physicians, and American Psychiatric Association, wrote in a July 26, 2000 ""Joint Statement on the Impact of Entertainment Violence on Children"" available at www.aap.org: ""Children who see a lot of violence are more likely to view violence as an effective way of settling conflicts. Children exposed to violence are more likely to assume that acts of violence are acceptable behavior Viewing violence can lead to emotional desensitization towards violence in real life. It can decrease the likelihood that one will take action on behalf of a victim when violence occurs. Entertainment violence feeds a perception that the world is a violent and mean place. Viewing violence increases fear of becoming a victim of violence, with a resultant increase in self-protective behaviors and a mistrust of others. Viewing violence may lead to real life violence. Children exposed to violent programming at a young age have a higher tendency for violent and aggressive behavior later in life than children who are not so exposed. Although less research has been done on the impact of violent interactive entertainment (video games and other interactive media) on young people, preliminary studies indicate that the negative impact may be significantly more severe than that wrought by television, movies, or music."" July 26, 2000- American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry American Academy of Family Physicians American Academy of Pediatrics American Medical Association American Psychiatric Association (APA) American Psychological Association Craig Anderson, PhD, Director of the Center for the Study of Violence, wrote in a 2009 article ""FAQs on Violent Video Games and Other Media Violence,"" available on psychology.iastate.edu: ""The results, overall, have been fairly consistent across types of studies (experimental, cross-sectional, and longitudinal) and across visual media type (television, films, video games). There is a significant relation between exposure to media violence and aggressive behavior. Exposing children and adolescents (or 'youth') to violent visual media increases the likelihood that they will engage in physical aggression against another person. By 'physical aggression' we mean behavior that is intended to harm another person physically, such as hitting with a fist or some object. A single brief exposure to violent media can increase aggression in the immediate situation. Repeated exposure leads to general increases in aggressiveness over time. This relation between media violence and aggressive behavior is causal."" 2009- Craig Anderson, PhD David Greenfield, PhD, founder of The Center for Internet and Technology Addiction and Assistant Clinical Professor of Psychiatry at the University of Connecticut School of Medicine, said in a Sep. 20, 2013 panel discussion titled ""Growing Up GTA"" available at huffingtonpost.com: ""My opinion on video game violence, which has a very powerful reward system wired into it, is that continued exposure desensitizes people to the experience of violence. But the other big issue, along with the reward structure, is that it teaches them a skill set that they might not otherwise develop, especially the first person shooter games. I have a real problem with giving people, in the name of entertainment, a technology that desensitizes violence, and then teaches you how to commit violence more accurately "" and then elevating people's levels of dopamine"" [T]hose studies have been absolutely supported. When you put people on a PET scanner or an functional MRI, their brain lights up like a Christmas tree when they're doing these games, especially when they hit the reward points that are designed by the gamers to"" keep people gaming because that's how these games make their money. Nothing is engaged in at the levels that I see gaming at, as a form of entertainment or dopamine elevation, unless it's a narcotic like cocaine for instance. How could you be exposed to something this toxic and have it not affect you?"" Sep. 20, 2013- David N. Greenfield, PhD Leland Yee, PhD, State Senator (D-CA) wrote in a June 22, 2009 amicus brief filed with the US Supreme Court for Video Software Dealers Association v. Schwarzenegger: ""The interactive nature of video games is vastly different than passively listening to music, watching a movie, or reading a book. With interactive video games, the child becomes a part of the action which serves as a potent agent to facilitate violence and over time learns the destructive behavior. This immersion results in a more powerful experience and potentially dangerous learned behavior in children and youth... Just as the technology of video games improves at astonishing rates, so to does the body of research consistently demonstrate the harmful effects these violent interactive games have on minors. Over three thousand peer-reviewed studies, produced over a period of 30 years documenting the effects of screen violence (including violent video games), have now been published... These data suggest very strongly that participating in the playing of violent video games by children and youth increase aggressive thought and behavior; increase antisocial behavior and delinquency; engender poor school performance; desensitize the game player to violence."" June 22, 2009- Leland Yee, PhD Brad Bushman, PhD, Professor of Communication and Psychology at The Ohio State University, stated the following in a Feb. 18, 2013 article titled ""Why Do People Deny Violent Media Effects?"" available at psychologytoday.com ""People want to believe that if millions of people play violent video games and they don""t all become killers, then those games must be harmless. Unfortunately, that""s not true. We haven""t 'proven' video games directly cause violence because it can""t be proven. There is no way to ethically run experiments that see if some threshold of playing a violent game like Call of Duty may push a person into violence. But that doesn""t mean we are left without evidence. We know that video game violence is certainly correlated with violence "" just like smoking is correlated with lung cancer. However, this does not mean that the research does not show causal effects; in fact it does, over and over again. We recently conducted a comprehensive review of 136 articles reporting 381 effects involving over 130,000 participants from around the world. These studies show that violent video games increase aggressive thoughts, angry feelings, physiological arousal (e.g., heart rate, blood pressure), and aggressive behavior. Violent games also decrease helping behavior and feelings of empathy for others. The effects occurred for males and females of all ages, regardless of what country they lived in. So the question then becomes why people and journalists repeatedly shrug off this compelling body of work."" Feb. 18, 2013- Brad J. Bushman, PhD Pamela Eakes, Founder of Mothers Against Violence in America (MAVIA), wrote in an article titled ""Do You Know What Video Games Your Children Are Playing?"" on www.pbs.org (accessed Oct. 6, 2014): ""Parents do know that children learn by observing, imitating what they observe, and acting on the world around them. According to child psychologist Michael Rich, children develop what psychologists call 'behavioral scripts.' They interpret their experiences and respond to others using those scripts. One can easily see how repeated exposure to violent behavioral scripts can lead to increased feelings of hostility, expectation that others will behave aggressively, desensitization to the pain of others, and an increased likelihood of interacting and responding to others with violence. Violent video games are an ideal environment in which to learn violence. Violent video games: Place the player in the role of th"	PRO	144
144	Sa7073d00-A8053eb6b	Video games are an innocent hobby!	"On the Uniqueness: It's not about probability that someone is going to kill someone. It's that it happens a notable amount of time. Devin Moore, a minor killed three people in 2005 in the name of Grand Theft Auto. A year later Warren Leblanc, in London faced the death penalty for the brutal murder of a peer causing headlines like ""murder by playstation"" for the incitement to violence caused by yes, Manhunt. Still games like 50 Cent Bulletproof, God of War, 300 and Manhunt cause what lawyers would even charge as copycat crimes. Meaning that the deeds done within the surreal world and mimicked by actions outside. Inciting violence to kids at such a young and a lot of the vulnerable age is dangerous. I think what you're saying is basically like guns don't kill people, people kill people. Lots of people own them, but they don't all shoot each other. I am saying that, yes, games don't kill people, people kill people but games have a responsibility to not incite that violence and to not enable people to kill people. I could go to a shooting range with fifty people and I can bet none of them will murder someone. Crime is not rational. That's why it is crime: it is an act of irrationality by irrational people. When you enable irrational people, already slightly not in the real world with an escape the line becomes blurred. Words like ""innocent"" are the kind of lack of seriousness that the companies and government need understand are not what the families of Ace Mealer, James Crump and Arnold Strickland who were killed by Mr. Moore would call it. Solvency: 1. I'm not claiming the Mario Brother is juvenile. The original argument you made was general, about all video games. I'm saying that some video games, and coincidently the most popular video games incite violence. You can crossiply my arguments above to your killing statement. The ESRB ratings, as you, if you play video games frequently probably know it is very, very easy to get a video game rated M if your a minor without your parents knowing. Getting it with a parent is not the only way. You could get someone else older to buy if for you and very often the vendors will sell it to you without question. 2. Yes, gamers are just kids and playing video games isn't a juvenile crime, but murder is. And incitement to murder is. And sadly some people, when it comes to the reward system. 3. As you being the affirmative it's like part of the burden of proof lies with you and you don't carry it. You talk about how it stops obesity and makes connections, but don't impact this at all. Negative saves more lives and strides further in a better direction of awareness then affirmative. Impacts: 1. Crossiply. Video games don't kill, true. They incite. I'm not calling you a killer or video games in general bad, but your plan was general. And as I said before, it's not the video games, it is how they warp the minds of vulnerable people to make them irrational. Irrational people commit crimes. 2. It doesn't matter what they are designed to do, they are designed to get results. They don't get results. You can sit. If you choose not to, that's great, but if you're lazy you don't. As for being stuck inside: I'm not going to exercise at all if I'm sick and DDR, eyetoys and Wii are still models that don't compete at all with real exercise. 3. Connections made are over a surreal playing field. You don't know their names, you don't know anything about except if they play well. They aren't relationships. They are solid deontology. You use them to achieve a means. In conclusion negative again, save lives and I can't stress that enough. They negative saves live, affirmative doesn't. Video games are a deonological playing field of people who can deal and those who can't. Those who can't decide what is real and what is not kill and it is because of video games. Thank you too! This is a good debate, I meant to bring up the army and laziness but don't have time. Good luck to you too."	CON	145
145	Sa5981922-Aa1530eca	Violent video games being banned	"Violent video games should not be banned. The retail in the U.S. for violent video games is twenty one billion dollars. If people ban the violent video games, and corect me if i'm wrong, it will almost wipe out our economy. It has been proved that one-eigth of the school attackers have been more interested in violent movies, violent books, and their own violent writings. Almost every teenager plays violent video games, and you don't see them running on rooftops with a sword and hidden blade trying to kill redcoats. Yes, I do play violent video games, and yes, there are violent video games out there that are really bad, I'm not denying that, I'm just saying that violent video games are not the root cause of the shootings, and killings in America. The mass killer, Adam Lanza, the guy that killed 26 people in Newtown, Conneticut, was not interested in video games as a child. If the government regulates everything, what are we then? We aren't the free America that we used to be. We will be a dictatorship. A socialist country. And we don't want that. ""If video games cause people to go out into the world and kill people, then guns kill people, pens and pencils misspell words, cars cause people to have accidents and drink and drive, and cutlery causes obesity. We cannot blame mere objects for people's accidents and mistakes."" I found that on Google Images. That statement means that people can blame anything and everything for their mistakes, and the government will just try to ban it. So will the government ban forks and knives? Cars? No, they won't. We need cars to get places. We need forks and knives to eat. So why should we ban video games when it's not the violent video games that kill people. It's also movies and books. That's that"	CON	146
146	Sc82afeaa-A9f093eea	Video games are a sport	"Your definition of ""sport"" states that sports require physical effort. You yourself said in your argument that ""Sports does [sic] not need to be a main physical activity"", which directly contradicts the definition you provided. If we take your definition as the one used in this debate, which I'm happy to do, it disallows video games as a sport. Video games do not require any more physical effort than walking up the stairs, making a cup of tea, or using the toilet. Therefore, unless you wish to count any of the above three as sports, you cannot count video games as a sport. (Despite being an avid chess player, I don't believe that chess is a sport. I've played soccer for over half my life and think it's stupid to compare chess to soccer)."	CON	147
147	Sc51b1af2-A8a3ca0aa	Video games make you violent	"PROOF 1. Con concedes that video games make me violent: ""verbal violence, that is you"". Con concedes that ""you"" in the topic refers to me, Pro. Thus: I have proven that ""Video games make [me] violent"". PROOF 2. Con disputes how much violence is caused by video games. But Con concedes that my violence examples were caused by video games. Thus: I have proven that video games cause nonzero violence. Don't let Con make new responses to conceded points. Con concedes all critical points. Game over!"	PRO	148
148	Sd645ce1a-Af36e63a4	video games help	"Video games improve preschoolers' motor skills Letting a 4-year-old sit in front of a TV with a game controller might not seem like the most productive use of her time. But researchers from Deakin University in Melbourne, Australia, would disagree. Their study examined the development of 53 preschool-aged children, and found that those who played ""interactive games"" had better ""object control motor skills"" than those who didn't. It's not clear, though, whether children with better-than-average motor skills tend to gravitate toward video games in the first place."	PRO	149
149	S5ee22d2a-A7c08f86	Should schools have video games	I am against this because it would deprive the kids of there learning. I could see a laptop or an Ipad for learning things, but not as a daily ritual. Also if you are at school playing video games you will not get a good job and will be forced to live without a job at all. Another thing is if you have video games, at school, you will not be as advanced as you may be when you are a grown adult. You would be playing video games all of your life. When I was a kid, there were no video games, except maybe the Game Cube, and I didn't have one. Video games would just deprive the kids from learning and no kid would learn because all they would want to do is play video games.	CON	150
150	S7ba93df6-A31f27a43	Video games are actually good for you	"I will start this round with rebutting your counter arguments and then provide more information and facts of how video games (violent and not) supply numerous benefits. Rebuttals : My opponent began with how violent video games give children bad ideas and causes a bad influence, video games of violent nature are most definitely for those of us who can tell the difference between fiction and non-fiction and what is wrong and right. Also, the ESA (Entertainment Software Association) have ratings for games that should not be played by youth. I advise that parents and children abide by those ratings, and if they do not then those families can use with their own caution. I never stated that violent video games were good for children. The opponent brings up another concern of staring at a screen for to long will ruin users eyes. In Times magazine, Markham Heid writes of Doctor Joshua Dunaief who documents that most cases of 'Computer Vision Syndrome' are actually caused by either, dry eyes or your eyes becoming too fatigued to actually interpret correctly. ""there are tiny muscles inside your eyeball that change the shape of your eye’s lens in order to bring whatever you’re seeing into focus,"" after time the muscles become tired and can no longer focus, computers are not to blame. Many do complain of our generation being 'dead' and socially inactive, however, maybe older generations just simply don't get it. As technology gets more and more advanced, the more we want to use it. Many children do spend their weekends playing video games, because they spend 8 hours every day for 5 days straight learning. We're spent and tired of being in schoo, video games can be a relaxer. Everyone has a hobby and video games is one. A hobby with benefits also. My opponent seems to be one of many who link shootings to violent video games, however, 91% of society play video games! Therefore the claim that violent video games cause violence is irrelevant. Sure there is alot of thought provoking choices you can make when playing these first shooter games but a potential crinimal can also get ideas from simply watching the news, like so many do every single morning. Claims : One of the numerous benefits of of playing video games, violent included, is the lesson of teamwork. Many games have an option to play against and with other gamers all over the world. This can teach players of how sometimes, when you can not succed on your own, you may be able to succed with another to aid you. Players will realize that when two, or more, come together, great things can happen. Washington Post's article, ""A New Study Shows Benefits of Violent Video Games fo Kids' Learning,"" states that ""A 2013 meta-analysis found that playing shooter video games improved a player’s capacity to think about objects in three dimensions just as well as academic courses to enhance these same skills, according to the study. This enhanced thinking was not found with playing other types of video games, such as puzzles or role-playing games."" showing that even video games containing violence have their own gains. The artcle also documented that these games can help in childrens problem solving skills and a boost in creativity."	PRO	151
151	S6812fbc7-A4ed992d9	Video Games are an art form.	"Hello, this is Tiscooler, and as the con I will be arguing that video games are not art. I accept the rules for each round. I agree with your rules for the burden of proof, but I would like to also state that as the pro, the burden of proof rests mainly on you to prove video games are an art form. I would also like to provide a definitions pro did not clarify: ""are""–verb present indicative plural and 2nd person singular of be. [1] ""video game""-noun A type of game existing as and controlled by software, usually run by a video game console or a computer, and played on a video terminal or television screen. [2] I look forward to having a good debate! [1] http://dictionary.reference.com... [2] http://en.wiktionary.org..."	CON	152
152	S2537bf98-A19eed0f0	Video Games Are Not Bad For You	"A report in Journal of Adolescence [1] directly linked childhood obesity and low exercise levels to video games. In kids, ages 1 to 12, ""results indicated that while television use was not related to children's weight status, video game use was."" According to an article in the Journal of Neurology, Neuropsychology, and Psychiatry [2], 29 percent of patients with epilepsy suffered video-game-induced seizures. According to Pediatrics International [3], kids who played video games were much more prone to develop black rings under the eyes and suffer from a displacement of the shoulder blade. Based on recent studies, published in Pediatrics [4], found that kids who had two hours or more of screen time per day were twice as likely to have difficulty paying attention. So, yes, video games are not just bad for you, but dangerous for your well-being. 1.) https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov... 2.) https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov... 3.) https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov... 4.) https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov..."	CON	153
153	Sa6fe5b30-A545ef3ad	Are video games good for you.	"We see that typically in people that don't play action games, their reaction time [on tests of multitasking] lengthened by 200 milliseconds, which is something like 30 percent,"" Bavelier says. ""But in gamers, it lengthened only by 10 percent"" (Trudeau). What the stat is saying is that people how don""t play action games/any games have a slow reaction time when multitasking and that gamers have a faster reaction time to multitasking. What this means is if you play video games you do stuff faster then non gamers. What the next paragraphs are going to talk about is how gaming can help you be focused, remember things, and multitasking. Playing video games helps you be focused, remember things, and it helps you be able to multitask. Being focused can help you with school. Ways video games help with being focused is you know what the teacher is talking about. When you start playing a game that you are addicted to, you start focusing and you don""t know but you start focusing more as though you are playing that game in real life, because you brain is so used to be focused playing that game that your brain starts to focus more when you are not playing it. When you start focusing more you can get better grades and get into a good school and get a good job. This is the way staying focused in school so if you think playing video games is bad maybe you should research before you say they are bad and they don""t help you stay focused in school"" (anonymous). (I got all this information from a essay I did I will not disclose my name)."	PRO	154
154	S75fbfa8d-A2841fe47	Violent video games, banning of	"I have given you many examples on what the police are calling copycat crime and that the police are taking very seriously!. because this is an issue on the rise The government is supposed to do what is best for his/her country,weigh up the consequences and benefits and make a decision on what is best and if it saves lives to ban violent video games then so be it that is what we should do! So you think that people being able to waste there lives sitting in front of a screen for hours on end killing people is more important than even just one of the lives out of the many lives lost due to copycat crime from violent video games???? You put the word children in capital letters when you were talking about what I thought well why? what does it matter if the people killing are 17yrs old or 28yrs old the bottom line is that people are getting murdered not the age of the people killing them!!!. And you said would I put a ban on cars because they can be used in violence well no I would not because cars have a useful purpose but what useful purpose do violent video games have?! answer me that. And you said we should ban all movies with violence well no because there is a difference between when you watch someone shoot someone else in a movie that is not you pulling the trigger but in a game you are the one killing. Violence maybe human nature but it is certainly not something that should be glorified and encouraged on violent video games!. When children are growing up we teach them right from wrong by rewarding them for good behavior and punishing them for bad but in a violent video game the players are rewarded for killing someone by being moved up on a level or awarded a new gun or armor. Why this goes against basic moral standards. A survey of 1,102 adolescents found that 97 percent had played video games in the past day. Although most parents checked the censor""s rating before allowing their child to purchase it, 50 percent of boys and 14 percent of girls favored games with an ""M"" (mature) or ""AO"" (adult-only) rating, which implies a high degree of violence This is cause for concern. Research has long shown a cause-effect relationship between video game violence and aggression among children and youth who play it. And morally should people really take pleasure in killing and assaulting and torturing people???."	PRO	155
155	S46745944-A1dd14a3a	Video Games Lead To Violence	First and foremost, video games can assist with the growth and development of our brain. A recent study by neuroscientists have shown that video games have many cognitive benefits. The study has found that video gaming can stimulate neurogenesis (growth of new neurons) and connectivity in the brain regions responsible for spatial orientation, memory formation and strategic planning. Neurogenesis and neuroplasticity improvements were observed in the right hippocampus, right prefrontal cortex and the cerebellum. These brain regions are involved in functions such as spatial navigation, memory formation and strategic planning. Increasingly, the level of connectivity between brain areas is being linked to higher intelligence and consciousness.	CON	156
156	Sadb55d1d-A749afee7	Video Games are a good thing	"My dear opponent I want you to know that some video games teach kids the wrong values. Violent behavior, vengeance and aggression are rewarded. Negotiating and other non violent solutions are often not options. Women are often portrayed as weaker characters that are helpless or sexually provocative."" I am sorry if this sounds rude but have you ever played a video game? I am going to take on your statement backwards starting with ""Women are often portrayed as weaker characters that are helpless or sexually provocative."" 1. Women are always made sexually provocative. Same as in reality. In fact I think most girls in real life are more provocative except they are not built like video game girls. Problem with this argument is that you are saying it is teaching girls to be provocative. Were that is the parents job to dictate. If one's child is walking around half naked instead of blaming video games maybe one should take some responsibility. 2. Women are portrayed as weaker and helpless. I am sorry and I am going to get attacked for this but it is a true statement. The hormones that grows facial hair is the same that grows muscle. Men are by nature stronger than woman. There is no argument that can defeat that unless the majority of women start growing facial hair more than the average male. Males are also on average any were between 40-100 pounds heavier than woman. I asked you if you play video games because in the last 10 years of gaming there is just as many B.A. women is games as men. Older games were focused on men so it wasn't trying to teach women are helpless it was just giving men a story they could relate to and get into. Just saying how many men would want to save a prince. Also just a side note how many men are taught to never hit a woman. Now how many women are taught to never hit a man? just saying 3.Many Many Many games don't have the technology to let you use non-violent options. That doesn't teach violence is a good thing though. In fact in many games like Fallout series where you do get the option to negotiate and not use violence your morals actually effect you quite a bit. In fallout New Vegas there was a land of crucifixions. I did everything in my power to save them and when I couldn't I almost broke down. It teaches morals if anything. Yet they still do not TEACH violence. If you are following ESRB rating then you wont buy a killing game for a kid under 17. Therefore parents are not taking responsibility. Lets say we are past that and the kids are playing killing games like I did. By saying it is teaching them violence then you would agree they are being taught violence over negotiate. In that case then why doesn't every kid in school fight instead of argue? Why are we not boxing right now? 4.Also vengeance and aggression are almost never rewarded. Anger is also kept under control because most video games require you to stay cool calm or collected because once you go crazy you get killed or something instantly. Sorry I couldn't find many sources on this one but here is one source. http://www.cracked.com... I think you guys should vote pro because I did prove instances were video games improved us. I also disproved or at least minimized almost all of my opponents arguments."	PRO	157
157	S8294b441-Af07732e5	Video Games Cause Violence	"To say that video games cause violence is an outrage. If this was simply but an ounce of truth, then every person who bought a video game that contained violence would become a ""killer"". However, since they haven't, that leaves one option left, and that's to say that it's simply the persons unstable mind. There have been only a handful of tragic events that have been blamed on video games. Each of those times, the person seemed to be mentally unstable. (Take the Newtown Conneticuit shooting for example). The same thing can be said for many other things such as movies, books, TV shows, etc... They contain violent content, but they aren't the cause of any violence."	CON	158
158	Sd0e5c093-Af3472665	should vilent video games be banned	"It is upon Pro to show that Violent video games should be banned. I must show that violent video games should not be banned. Refutations A. Aggression increases The statement Pro really seems like he is making is that violent video games increase aggression in youth, a claim that is completely unsupported. In fact, I have a substantial amount of evidence to cause Pro's point to fall. Let's look at the supreme court case that came out of this accusation, and the verdict. ""In sum, the evidence presented by the State does not support the Legislature's purported interest in preventing psychological or neurological harm. Nearly all of the research is based on correlation, not evidence of causation, and most of the studies suffer from significant, admitted flaws in methodology as they relate to the State's claimed interest. None of the research establishes or suggests a causal link between minors playing violent video games and actual psychological or neurological harm, and inferences to that effect would not be reasonable. In fact, some of the studies caution against inferring causation."" [1] Violent games seem to have no negative factors on youth. Medical and psychological experts agree, saying: ""It's clear that the ‘big fears' bandied about in the press - that violent video games make children significantly more violent in the real world; that children engage in the illegal, immoral, sexist and violent acts they see in some of these games - are not supported by the current research , at least in such a simplistic form. That should make sense to anyone who thinks about it. After all, millions of children and adults play these games, yet the world has not been reduced to chaos and anarchy."" [2] To show even more proof that disproves Pro's statement's, we can see actual statistics in correlation between violent video game usage and actual juvenille aggressive reports... ""According to federal crime statistics, the rate of juvenile violent crime in the United States is at a 30-year low. Researchers find that people serving time for violent crimes typically consume less media before committing their crimes than the average person in the general population. It's true that young offenders who have committed school shootings in America have also been game players. But young people in general are more likely to be gamers - 90 percent of boys and 40 percent of girls play. The overwhelming majority of kids who play do NOT commit antisocial acts. "" [3] Now, why would it be that in the last thirty years, the time period where violent video games have shot up in development [4], that the juvenile violent crime rate is at an all time low if these games increase aggression? Pro's point falls Pro then makes a second point which is really another way of saying the first, so I will only lightly touch on it...Behavioral scripts. This claim is again completely opinionated and backed with no source. If Pro is to say behavioral scripts develop "" from the repetition of actions "", then you can say that someone who brushes their teeth every morning will brush their teeht automatically when they see a toothbrush. Equally, it's like saying a person who has to wake up early the majority of the year for schooling will ALWAYS wake up early; I think we all know this not to be true. Now moving on to my contentions. 1. Violent video games prepare the youth ""Violence has always been and remains a central interest of humankind and a recurrent, even obsessive theme of culture both high and low. It engages the interest of children from an early age, as anyone familiar with the classic fairy tales collected by Grimm, Andersen, and Perrault are aware."" Posner adds, ""To shield children right up to the age of 18 from exposure to violent descriptions and images would not only be quixotic, but deforming; it would leave them unequipped to cope with the world as we know it."" [5] Violence is all around us; whether it's foreign countries, domestic gangs, or through whatever medium, it's here to stay. Banning violent video games because of potential aggression harm younger individuals, as the quote above states. A younger person is much more likely to overreact when exposed to a violent situation if he has never been exposed to violence before....this is just common sense. Violent video games give a good medium for these kids to experience the world's anger, and prepare for it. ""The Sims designer Will Wright argues that games are perhaps the only medium that allows us to experience guilt over the actions of fictional characters."" [5] This says that through games, one can actually at a younger age start to identify morals and guilt, and make decisions that have consequences, preparing them for the real world. Many violent games these days have open ended decision making: just a few are Grand theft auto, Fallout 3, and Oblivion. 2. Revenue would drop, harming the economy The video games system we live in this day and age brings in a vast sum of money; in 2008, $11.7 billion dollars was gained through video games [6] ""97% of 12-17 year olds in the US played video games in 2008, thus fueling an $11.7 billion domestic video game industry. In 2008, 10 of the top 20 best-selling video games in the US contained violence. "" [6] It's safe to say that banning these games, which I have proven have no negative effects on adolescents and have no imact on their aggression level, would just cause a lot of problems. You would ruin the gaming industry, have kids who wouldn't be prepared for the real world, and in reality just take out very fun aspects of games. What a bore video games would be if all of them were violence free; we all feel this way, and it's common sense that these video games are the best of the best. After all, 10 of the top 20 best-sellers had violence. Thank You Sources 1. Video Software Dealers Association v. Schwarzenegger, the US Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in a 3-0 majority opinion written by Consuelo Callahan, JD, on Feb. 20, 2009 2. Grand Theft Childhood: The Surprising Truth about Violent Video Games: Lawrence Kutner, PhD, and Cheryl K. Olson, ScD, co-founders of the Harvard Medical School Center for Mental Health and Media 3. Henry Jenkins, PhD, Provost's Professor of Communication, Journalism, and Cinematic Arts at University of Southern California 4. http://www.suite101.com... 5.http://www.pbs.org... 6.http://videogames.procon.org..."	CON	159
159	Se62711e-A2f35667a	Video Games do not Cause Violence	"OK, I guess a better title for this debate would be ""Do video games influence violence"" but semantics isn't that important to me. Counter: Your contention that people getting mad at video games and then doing acts of violence means that video games cause violence is false. People's reactions to video games can cause violence, this is a definite fact. This does not mean that video games cause violence. Say, for example, I am using a spoon to scoop ice cream and then the spoon bends slightly, and then I punch my brother in the face. Should I have reacted so badly? No, I shouldn't have reacted like that. People aren't going to blame the weakness of spoons for me punching someone in the face, they are going to blame me and the incredibly bad temper that I have. When people in completely sound mind get mad at a video game, they don't become violent. If video games did cause violence, then wouldn't everyone who got mad at a video game become violent? It is more correct to have the cause of the violence on the person committing it then the video game they were playing."	PRO	160
160	Se42653aa-A2d8fc59e	Video games don't equal violence	"Well, you are right, but listen to this: 97% of 12-17 year olds in the US played video games in 2008, thus fueling an $11.7 billion domestic video game industry. In 2008, 10 of the top 20 best-selling video games in the US contained violence. Violent video games have been blamed for school shootings, increases in bullying, and violence towards women. Critics argue that these games desensitize players to violence, reward players for simulating violence, and teach children that violence is an acceptable way to resolve conflicts. Video game advocates contend that a majority of the research on the topic is deeply flawed and that no causal relationship has been found between video games and social violence. They argue that violent video games may reduce violence by serving as a substitute for rough and tumble play and by providing a safe outlet for aggressive and angry feelings. California passed a law in 2005 that would have required violent video games to include an ""18"" label and criminalized the sale of these games to minors. On June 27, 2011, the US Supreme Court ruled 7-2 in Brown vs. Entertainment Merchants Association that the law violated free speech rights. On April 20, 1999, two seniors kids walked into their high school carrying rifles, and they opened fire. They shot tons of people, killing 12 students and one teacher and the people were appalled. School shootings had happened before, but this was a violence shooting and in the ensuing search for answers it came out the shooters had spent a lot of time playing violent video games. (Source- how stuff works) Since then, the entertainment proclivities of the shooters are one of the first things reported by the press. There was a 20-year-old who killed 20 first-graders and six educators at Sandy Hook Elementary in Connecticut in 2012 played violent video games. So did the 24-year-old high- schooler who shot dozens of people in an Aurora, Colo., movie theater in the same year. An estimated 97% of America's young people are playing video games, with many of the popular ones that feature violent content.What seems to some to be a connection between violent game play and actual violence has many wondering about the effects of immerse violence on young children's minds. Video games have really only existed since the mid-1970s, so there's not much evidence for or against their violent effects than there is your surroundings like TV violence of movie violence, but the rise in dramatically violent shootings by teenaged gamers is bolstering the side of the argument that says video game violence translates in some way to the real world."	CON	161
161	S3b5955b2-Abc28672b	video games are a waste of time and money	what if its raining or theres a storm plus video games are alot more fun also video games are good for stimulating the brain video games can also be educational	CON	162
162	S4b5a7a70-A98e3aa66	Video Games are the new art form	I'd like to thank my opponent in advance for taking this argument. Video Games are Art There's no solid definition for what an art is, but it mostly agreed that an art is a piece or work that people find enjoyable or appealing and that can give a deeper have a deeper insight into many different subjects. Art should also be able to be interpreted differently by every person. I assert that video games do just that. Video Games Look/Sound Great Well this part is a no brainier. No one can deny that video games can be ascetically pleasing, with better and better looking games coming out every year with varying art styles. There's everything from ultra-realism to abstract art style in games today, both managing to impress players. The music in video games has never been better, with full symphonies recording soundtracks for games; if you haven't listen to some video game soundtracks I highly recommend it. With great graphics and soundtrack, video games can take someone's breath away and stare in wonder. Video Games can Give Deep Insight Through the game play, story, and atmosphere, a game can give insights into deeper subjects. A prime example is the Mass Effect series, which makes the player make a plethora of moral choices throughout the game; I just want to focus on one. In this game there is a robotic alien race called the Geth, half of who want to kill you and half of who think your their savior. In one of the missions you are given the choice to either completely wipe out the Geth who are opposed to you or reprogram them so that they no longer hate you. This choice makes the player really think about this issue, put themselves in the place of the Geth. How would I like it if someone could just reprogram me, change how I fundamentally think, without me ever knowing. Would I rather die as the man I am, or become a completely different person but stay alive. These are the questions the player has to ask himself as he tries to decide the Geth's fate. I found out that I want to go down fighting, as I am. No one can deny the depth that this problem puts into the game. And this isn't the sole example of a video games exploring deep subjects; games like Bioshock and Persona 4 also explore deep subjects, like along with many others games. Video Games Can be Interpreted Differently Some people doubt that video games can mean more than one thing, that the same game can be seen differently by two people. There are a great numbers of games that show just that; games like Portal and Half-Life that hint at a deeper plot that is left up to the player to interpret, or games like Deus Ex which leaves it up to the player to decide if they're fighting on the right side. Video games have been able to caused debates for decades, there's no doubt that video games can be interpreted differently by people. Thanks for reading my argument and I look foward to your response.	PRO	163
163	S5b6b29c-A341ba32	Violent Video Games	Thank you for accepting, and I agree with your first statement. I would like to start with your second, that children are more prone to violence from video games. Well I still stand by my reasoning about responsibility of parents, but also a child's mindset is different then when in adolescence or older, therefore they most likely do not understand the concept of the violence that are in those video games. And how many kids have you heard violently hurting someone just because they wanted to? Even if their past growing up was not rough or devastating? Sure there are some smart kids out there, but if they were smart enough about it, they would know about violence and take in account human integrity and have some idea that it is wrong to cause violence. I admit I may have outspoken for the more recent Call of Duty's, but the older ones did have a educational value. If violent video games could hold some sort of educational value I believe the violence would matter less The education, if prevalent enough, takes your mind off the more violent parts of the game. The emotional status of the characters, how the game makes you feel, whether it be sadness, or even hate towards another character, that emotion leads to a deeper understanding of the violence in the game, if that makes sense. And the thing about the military? They live that on a weekly bases, even before video games became electronic. Sure it may be how they become less aware of killing another human being, but again, that is their lifestyle, and sure there are more even better ways, to deal with that, but obviously video games were the option chosen, and I would like to believe more for the fun that could be taken out of it by sitting next to your comrade in arms having a friendly competition.	PRO	164
164	S45462ad0-A33c324a5	Can video games be healthy	studies of video games are being conducted across the world on whether or not video games are healthy or not. Several studies show a rise in gray matter in the right hippocampus, right prefrontal cortex and the cerebellum areas of the brain responsible for spatial navigation, memory formation, strategic planning and fine motor skills in the hands.	PRO	165
165	S6fcc7b94-A349e9a3d	Video games lack actual skill.	"My opponent first claims that video games are not just ""pressing buttons"". Then he goes on to say that it's about precision and strategy but has no points to back that up. Then my opponent goes on to say that professional gamers have skill and video games improve your reflexes. Video games are based off of luck. Video games are like monopoly, you can know everything there is to know about that video game but when it really comes down to it all, everything's is just based off of a roll of a dice. Video games are based on chance and luck. And there's no skill if luck is involved. FPS have aim assist and that little dot in the middle of the screen to help you shoot. How is that skill? So playing action based video games creates better deduction making skills. So imagine playing an actual sport. How much better do you think your decision making skills will be after playing an actual sport compared to playing a video game? How about reflexes? Compare a video gamers reflex to a tennis persons reflex. See the difference? Sports and actual activities that require you to actually do something create actual skills. Video games are like football being played by puppets. Are the people who control the puppets actually good at football? No because they actually probably don't even know how to tackle properly or even throw the ball properly. You develop shadows of the skill in video games that you could develop in a real sport or real activity. My opponent then goes on to say that I am not a professional in Battlefront. And then states that being a professional mean that you have to dedicate your life to it. Which is true, therefore there is no such thing as a professional gamer unless you count being twenty or so years old as ""your life"". You can be a professional pianist because that will actually last for more than a couple years. You can be a professional sports player because that can last you more than a couple of years. Being a gamer is short. You get replaced once somebody comes a beats you in a game. When compared to actual skills, video games really lack. Video games don't have actual skill, otherwise people would already have counted it as a sport. Video games are based off of luck and where luck is involved, there's no real skill."	PRO	166
166	Sea1be806-Aab9a4610	All video games should be banned	"However, it can't be denied that there exists video games that people can benefit from. For children, specifically, it can just be math, reading, or academic based games that will assist them in school. I'm sure that they would much rather complete a math problem in a video game, where it is embellished, rather than a math book, where it's just ""bleh"". I'm totally on board with placing limitations on the violent video games you have in mind, but I don't agree with removing ALL video games."	CON	167
167	S5b6b23f-A82dea8e2	Violent Video Games	Video games do have game ratings, But inorder to buy a M rated game you need an ID showing that you are 17+ or you need to be with an adult. The kids you are talking about, Your going to need to give me more information on how they acted like 1st graders.There are people that are like 20 years old that might want to play a M rated game. The kids your talking about are problobly just trying to be cool (witch their propblobly not.) & get peoples attention to they can be populor(witch their propblobly not.). But who knows how they act outside of school, they could be their regular self. Their actions might not have anything to do with violent video games, it could be that they are having trouble with someone or something like that. Playing violent video games can make some adolescents more hostile, particularly those who are less agreeable, less conscientious and easily angered. But for others, it may offer opportunities to learn new skills and improve social networking. ... The teenagers who were highly neurotic, less agreeable and less conscientious tended to be most adversely affected by violent video games, whereas participants who did not possess these personality characteristics were either unaffected or only slightly negatively affected by violent video games. (http://www.annarbor.com...) _____________________________________________________ Good luck and I can't wait for the next round to see what you say.	PRO	168
168	S5b6b25e-A77d9f33f	Violent Video Games	This debate topic is one in which me and my opponent will discuss violent video games, and it's affects on the users. I will argue that violent video games do in fact encourage the user to become violent, or to do violent things. While my opponent will refute this and give his/her reasons for refutation.	PRO	169
169	Saa60f638-Afcb7fe50	Video Games Are Harmful to Kids	Based on the deplorable results of all American school test scores in comparison to other countries, it is hard to believe video games to more good than harm. The 'stimulating of brain cells' by video games may be true, but it certainly hasn't done much to improve long-term memory and the ability to focus. Perhaps the heightened experience of gaming makes such concentration to onerous. Scores continue to fall as gaming continues to rise.	PRO	170
170	Sedfa0947-Aed80c27a	Video games are not useless in today's society.	"I would like to thank my opponent for accepting the debate, and wish him luck. I would also like to note that I will be calling my opponent ""Con"". Con says that popular games today have no moral values to teach. Although this may be true, it does not mean that they have absolutely no value. Many games have values to teach that aren't about morals. Con says that video games have adverse effects on kids. There are studies that say that it does cause violence, there are studies that point to video games making no difference in emotion of the player, and there are some studies that point to video games calming players down. There is yet to be a consensus among the professional field on this subject, so you can't really put forth something like this as fact. (Sources: http://www.webpronews.com..., http://seattletimes.com...) Now for my arguments Many video game players use videos games as a way of relaxing There are many cases where people with busy schedules use video games to escape the harsh realizations of reality. Many video games are made specifically to relax the player. Some examples are Flower, LittleBigPlanet, and Braid. (I have played all of these games and can attest to them being relaxing, as can many others who have played them.) Spas offer the same relaxation for incredibly more, and for only a small amount of time of relaxation. Video games increase hand-eye coordination. Many studies show that this is true, like ‘Extensive video-game experience alters cortical networks for complex visuomotor transformations’ by Granek, Gorbet and Sergio. Published by York University, Centre for Vision Research, 2010., and this link: http://www.medicalnewstoday.com.... There has not been much opposition to this fact yet. The harder video games also create a sense of accomplishment for the player once they are defeated."	PRO	171
171	S6706fda2-Ad4b92d82	Video games	Yes it is safe too purchase video games online assuming you use a secured site, Like you said steam. But be careful so that you dont work your way off the the site because with redirects and links. READ THE ADDRESS. P. S this isn't really a debate but i figured I might as well lend a hand.	PRO	172
172	Sd645ce1a-Ab00da185	video games help	People say video games ruin your vision, well correct them. After 40 hr of play 50% of people have better vision. A school tried an experiment and out of 22 people 43% of them had better vision. So someone who plays video games could have better vision next eye doctor visit.	PRO	173
173	Secdfb6e3-A1d0a460d	Video Games are a form of art.	Video games are a form of art because they are created. anything that is created is a form of art. A book or a movie can be looked at in the same way, you are enjoying and interacting with a creation, through one or all of your 5 senses. Video games are no different. The movement that a character makes was created and therefor is art. A stage that was created just as beautifully as a painting, also a work of art. Anything that is created, is a work of art. I would like to hear an opposing perspective on this topic.	PRO	174
174	Sa6fe5b30-Ae62a6e4f	Are video games good for you.	Pro doesn't really make an argument here. He gives us a quote from some a completely random person but does no provide any evidence to prove that the information he gives is correct, and essentially does not give any arguments for why video games are good for us. Video games harm your brain, making them terrible for your mental health. http://www.huffingtonpost.com...	CON	175
175	Sd0e5c093-Aaaa9b612	should vilent video games be banned	Playing violent video games increases aggressive behavior and arousal . A 2009 study found that it takes up to four minutes for the level of aggressive thoughts and feelings in children to return to normal after playing violent video games. It takes five to ten minutes for heart rate and aggressive behavior to return to baseline. Video games that show the most blood generate more aggressive thoughts. When blood is present in video games, there is a measurable increase in arousal and hostility . A 1998 study found that 21% of games sampled involved violence against women . Exposure to sexual violence in video games is linked to increases in violence towards women and false attitudes about rape such as that women incite men to rape or that women secretly desire rape.	PRO	176
176	Sfb8c8cc0-A4f3a4fd	video games are educational	Hand eye coordination-kids that play video games have better hand-eye coordination that kids who don't 2.Awareness- Kids that play video games are more aware than kids who don't. 3.Our world is forming around technology if you game than you become more familiar with modern technology.	PRO	177
177	Sd5c9fd7c-A8014b640	Video games do not cause violence`	"Hello once more, Before getting on to rebutting the points stated previously, I would like to add my arguments to the mix. In this instance, I am often addressing more violent video games, as they are included in the topic and pose the greatest threat and significance to my debate. First, let's look at some actual, hard evidence. There has been a task force report released by the American Psychological Association on August the 13th, 2015, stating that there is a ""definite link to increases aggression in children who play violent video games."" This statement clearly speaks volumes for itself. Not much else has been concluded, but there is a lot more research to be done and knowledge to be gained. Source: http://www.apa.org... Another argument to the negative affects of video games is that they cause desensitization to individuals. Multiple studies have proved that those who regularly play violent video games experience a reduction in emotion-related physiological reactivity to real violence. They come to accept violence rather than be overly repulsed or reactive to it. Surely, this highlights the negative and violent affects of certain video games. Even if you choose not to accept violent video games are the sole cause of violent behavior, it is clear that it is a large factor. Along with the increased aggression produced in people who play video games, players often watch their character perform violent acts with little or no punishment for them. If anything, violent video games could easily be considered something that nurtures violent and possibly harmful impulses. It has actually been shown by the FBI that many perpetrators of mass shootings played violent video games often. Is it a mere coincidence, or could violent video games have induced those horrible acts of violence? Would all of those offender's behaviors been affected by symptoms shown in some of the arguments above? Another point is that violent video games are more harmful than television shows, comics and other things of the like as they depict you; or a virtual version of you, performing those violent acts. It makes it all too easy to picture oneself doing violent things is if one has already done them in an alternate reality, with no punishment (referring to earlier argument mentioned). Yet one more argument to point out is that video games often promote violence as a suitable resolution to various conflicts. Rather than simulating talking problems out in a civilized manner, the cause and effect flow on from an altercation is usually violence or warfare of some sort. What is this teaching the players, if not violence? I will further these points in the later rounds, as well as rebut the opposing arguments. To my opponent, good luck in your rebuttals and the rest of the debate. Thank you."	CON	178
178	Sbed8bb66-Ab8c810e9	Feminism is ruining video games	I would like to invite anyone in the grand debate about feminism in one of entertainments biggest industries, video gaming. I would like to say that I am referring to feminism affecting games in regards to the games themselves. I am not referring to harassment in the workplace, domestic abuse, or differences in pay grade level. I am referring to the end product that received in the video game and how feminism affects it.	PRO	179
179	S5b6b29c-Ae3ad88fc	Violent Video Games	"Well as my opponent has, I would like to say outstanding points have been made, I feel I may find it difficult to rebut his rebuttal. Yes as you said it is possible the understanding, or misunderstanding, of a violent video game played by a child is probable cause to violence. Again, and I apologize for constantly coming back to this, the parent is responsible not only for the games their child plays, but to help them understand through human values that violence is not only wrong, but the violence in video games is only fictional and some of the time not even possible to perform in reality. As for the 19 year old, first he is 19, an adult and almost a full-fledged one, and knows the reality of violence, not only through games, or past situations, but through his own hands. I felt obliged to look this individual up, and as said in the article, there was history of family violence between his parents, which he was quoted upon by the police. ""Police quoted Polwat as saying in a statement: ""I needed money to play the game every day. My parents give me only 100 baht a day, which is not enough. I am also fed up with them fighting. They are civil servants and do not make good money,"" he said."" - ( http://www.telegraph.co.uk... ) So this 19 year old has had hardships in his life, family fighting, always low on money, and the assumption would be because of the lack of money, this individual would not have had decent living conditions. His reasoning was because he wanted money to buy the game. Sure he said he wanted to see if it was as easy to kill someone in real life as in the game. But the origin of the problem was money issues. He wanted money to buy the game, and as a secondary thought he figured he would try out the game in real life. I will agree with your last statement. Children should not be embellished in the acts of violence in games. You say they teach the wrong values, but aren't violent video games based off of survival of the fittest? The human mindset to be the one on top, and to not be run down? If I may not be mistaken, that is the value of almost every human being, conquer any challenge in any way possible, with or without help, through or completely void of violence. And yes, it's true that most situations do not have to be resolved through violence. More recently women have taken on many different, even important, and ""manly"" roles in video games. Sure women are depicted as sexy or provocative, but to be honest here, what female figure ANYWHERE within the media, is not shown as provocative? Movies, music artists, fashion designers, magazines, even social networking, women are depicted or even depict themselves as attractive more or less. http://www.economist.com... The above source is a reference to my below statement. It depicts the growth in the video game industry. I would like to bring up a new and final point, but it is a small one. The video game industry is huge, and growing bigger as more games are developed and new consoles and pc's are being made. As my source says, the market was worth $65 million, and has grown over 60% since 2006. If one were to remove violence completely, in other words if violence did not exist in video games what so ever, then where would the Video Game Industry be? Less jobs would be available, less money being brought to the governments, and also, the majority of video games have some form of violence in them. Be it mass killing or boxing. A recent game I have seen and played personally, called Rock of Ages, is a simple game in which you control a rock rolling down a hill. But the main objective of the game is to knock down the enemy gates and roll over the enemy ""king"". Like I said, many video games depict violence in some form, and to take that away would be like taking the meaning out of life away. Because the meaning of life is can be quite violent, and is shown not only through real life situations, but obviously in video games as well. I rest my case. I would kindly ask for my opponent to only create a rebuttal for my rebuttal, and bring up no new points unless it pertains strictly to the points i have made anywhere above, since this is the last round. Oh how I wish I made it five rounds now. Good Luck opponent, it has been pretty fun having a ""non violent"" debate! (pun intended) :)"	PRO	180
180	Se42653aa-A38d289d9	Video games don't equal violence	Video games can also make your eyes bad and make you addicted to the video game. Video games are not so great to play and it gives children bad education. It can also teach you to use the gun shapes with your hand and you can get suspended for that. A lot of crimes have been made because of the video games that are violent. The violent video games can also teach children to curse. I know I haven't said a lot for this round, but it's all off to the voters. Thank you for this challenge.	CON	181
181	S7d4cf2e8-A92404c98	are video games better than board games	"Sorry for responding so late; I am swamped with finals and tests right now so I'll keep my argument short. First of all, you didn't provide any actual evidence for any of the things that you stated. Who knows how reliable your studies are compared to the studies of those by professionals? In addition, you have failed to argue against any of the points that I made. This debate is about board games vs. video games, not about whether or not video games are beneficial. You made no point against board games this round, and therefore I extend all my arguments. Furthermore, many of your points are invalid. Your first point, for example, suggests that playing video games must be good just because it is debated just as much as other good but controversial topics. Aside from the obvious fact that novels aren't really debatable, one cannot prove something's ""goodness"" based on other things it has no relation to. Especially in this situation, your generalizations are too vague to make any sense. Finally, against the argument in your last paragraph, one could argue that there are many things that have those benefits, not just video games. For example, sports would be an even better way of improving those skills. [1] But while video games are generally mindless, like I stated in my first argument, board games are more educational and social. Therefore, there is no other option but to vote con. Sources: [1] http://truesport.org..."	CON	182
182	Sea1be806-A26bf1967	All video games should be banned	Hello, I am Korean and you know, I am very young, 13 years old. I did many debating but I am still don't know English well. I will start with video games. I strongly think that all video games should be banned because there are many games that are violent so children or even adults would not realize the real and the game world. Also, video games can harm people's health and children can easily be addicted. Also, I think there are many fun activities to do except video games.	PRO	183
183	Se42653aa-Afd5921f1	Video games don't equal violence	Well video games are not the cause of our violence, nor does it equal any. ARGUMENT 1 Video games are made for the entertainment not to cause havok to our society ARGUMENT 2 Crime rate has decreased and video game sales go up rapidly by a second and most of those games are shooting games. ARGUMENT 3 School shootings are caused by mental illnesses. Not causes of video games. It is the parents to blame for havok. And scientist has also researched and ran test that video games do not connect to the real world violence. REBUTTAL Some video games do equal violence. They sometimes include shooting guns and especially, if you have a sibling, they learn from the older siblings. No it doesnt that is not true dont listen to everything on the news. A child would not even be affected by video games. Although it may make them unintelligent and agressive but it has no real world link to the human bodies and crime. Video games are not the only blame the society and the parents are. And siblings do not obtain bad influences when playing video games. If it does how come when a 4 yr old child came to my house I let him play a fighting game with blood and he didn even cause any criminal behavior only crying because of losing. Once again my opponent did not provide a single source http://kotaku.com...	PRO	184
184	S7a99f4c0-Ad3b1c909	Video games cause violence	Thank you sir, and best of luck to you also. In the past two decades, crime rate has been going down, including violent crimes. Meanwhile, video game sales have been going up dramatically. The violent crime rate has gone down from 1,932,274 crimes in 1992, to 1,203,564 crimes in 2011, showing a drop by about 36500 violent crimes per year. (Source: http://www.fbi.gov...) While that was happening, video game sales has increased rapidly, from close to 2.6 billion dollars in sales in 1996, to about 11.7 billion dollars in 2008. (Source: http://www.forbes.com...) There is yet to be a study that conclusively proves that video games influence people to be violent, and many studies that try to prove it are biased in favor of video games causing violence.	CON	185
185	Se81dfba3-Ac9442d43	Video Games increase child violence	In the first two examples, the experiments showed increased blood flow in the certain parts of the brain that are associated with copycat activities. Blood flow to a certain part of the brain does not necessarily mean anything at all. People's thinking is like so: Oh, tests (i'm talking about EEG experiment method) shown that the kids that play video games (violent ones actually) have increased blood flow in the part of the brain associated with copycat activities, therefor they become more aggressive and prone to copy actions from a violent video game. Wrong. Increased blood flow, as any doctor will tell you is a very broad category, and thus can we not be sure. Also, let me confirm that i know people that play violent video games, and i mean violent video games, no such as Mario and Call of Duty, and wouldn't hurt a fly in their lives. I think that brings this argument to an end. You've done some research, but you haven't really understood what these tests have shown. Especially in the second one, there's a line that says that people who play violent video games don't do well at school and are more prone to get into an argument with a teacher or so. Actually, the people from my school that play video games turn out to be less aggressive than the ones that do play video games. What can happen is if a guy that is really violent or aggressive plays video games. It's more likely, and official tests have shown this too, that people don't get more aggressive because of playing violent video games, but actually guys that are more aggressive are attracted more to violent video games. It all comes down to what a person likes. Sorry for my late response, i was busy for the last 2 days.	CON	186
186	S739f2cb1-Aab1ba76e	Video Games are a primary source of violence	"Before I state my arguments on the matter, I would like to say I am aware that the reoccurring of this topic is getting annoying and it's repetitive. However, I've never talked about this controversial topic before, and I want to try debating on it. Schedule Round 1: Acceptance and Arguments Round 2: More Arguments and/or Rebuttals Round 3: Rebuttals Round 4: More Rebuttals Round 5: Conclusions and Goodbyes Thesis Statements Even though video games does cause violent acts sometimes, that doesn't really mean it's a primary source of violence. Don't just stereotype the gaming industry just because, sometimes, people use video games to do violent things. That assumption is ambiguous, it's full of fallacy, and I'll prove that it's fallacious. Arguments 1. There is no statistical evidence supporting claim. According to the information on Harvard Medical School's website, the research that is conducted to support the ""video games cause violence"" claim ""relies on measures to assess aggression that don't correlate with real-world violence. Some studies are observational and don't prove cause and effect. Federal crime statistics suggest that serious violent crimes among youths have decreased since 1996, even as video game sales have soared."" (http://www.fbi.gov...) (http://www.washingtonpost.com...) (http://cloudfront.mediamatters.org...) (http://www.washingtonpost.com...) Researchers have made assumptions that the reason behind this decline of crime rates is because of video games because violent video games has been used as a substitute to express anger and other strong emotions to a virtual world instead to reality. Chris Ferguson, chair of psychology and communication at Texas A&M International, has conducted several studies on video game violence and its affect on youth. He actively believes that video games DO NOT cause real-world violence. Quoting, ""Video games is just not a common factor among mass homicide perpetrators. Some have been players, other have not been."" 2. The killer who was involved in games either had some sort of mental illness and/or had poor parents. (Mostly, it's the parents fault). In almost every single shooting where violent video games were blamed, the individual involved was mentally unstable, ill, . But of course it's way more appealing for the media to blame violent video games and pay no attention to the fact that most of these tragedies are linked to mental instability and/or poor parenting. The blame on the matter at hand should be directed to the parents because there are ESBR ratings on the front cover of every single game you purchase. GameStop warns the parent and the child that there is mature rated content and asks if the parent consents on allowing the child to play the game. Therefore, it is the parent's responsibility to facilitate on what the child is playing. According to HuffingtonPost, studies have showed that the majority of parents don't care if their kids play violent video games. Quoting ""The majority of parents don""t check age restrictions on video games and don't think violent games affect their kids, according to a new poll. The study, conducted by gaming price comparison and swap site www.Playr2.com. 1,221 parents of children aged 17 who frequently played video games were surveyed. The parents were surveyed, and were asked if they checked the age restrictions of their children""s video games before allowing them to play. Just under two thirds (64%) answered no. The majority of these parents, 55%, agreed that they did not think that age restrictions mattered on video games. Similarly, they were not concerned that their under-18s could be playing grown-up games. Asked ""Would you be concerned if your child was playing video games with an age restriction of 18?"", 51% said no."" ""Richard Wilson, CEO of TIGA, the trade association representing the UK games industry, told The Huffington Post: 'Age ratings exist to provide parents and consumers generally with information about games and the suitability of games for children. Just as parents should not buy 18 rated films for minors, so they should not buy 18 rated games for children. Parents must take responsibility.'"" I'm not stating that just because someone is mentally unstable will most likely become extremely violent. But, studies have shown that mass murders have occurred because of mental illness. Aaron Alexis, the murderer of 12 people in the Washington Navy Yard, was mentally unstable. The lawyers of James Holmes, shooter of the Denver theater at the premiere of the Dark Knight Rises film, had repeatedly stated that he is ""mentally ill."" 3. The very vast majority of gamers are not violent. Just because video games only affect that small percentage of players, doesn't mean that video games cause violence entirely. You can say the exact same thing for films. Most of movie watchers are not violent themselves even though they watch violence all the time. I really don't need to go full into detail on this point as it's self-explanatory in itself. Sources 1. 2. 3. http://www.washingtonpost.com... 4. http://www.health.harvard.edu... 5. http://www.fbi.gov... 6. 7. 8. http://kotaku.com... 9. http://bigstory.ap.org... 10. 11. http://www.forbes.com... Sorry that my argument post looks like a mess. I initially attempted to post graphs supporting my thesis, but the script is discombobulated and just simply retarded. So, instead, I'm posting links to the pictures. Anyway, I hope to my opponent, good luck. Now, the entire ""rich text"" is screwed up. I only have to type in normal text. :("	CON	187
187	Sd5c9fd7c-Acdb0b074	Video games do not cause violence`	"Hello there, today, I'm going to be rebutting several of your arguments that you've made in the last round. Here we go; - Unfortunately, for your first argument, I'm going to be automatically debunking that one because once I clicked the link to that site, I got a security error on that site. Most likely because I have Norton installed. So if it's okay with you, I'm going to be automatically debunking that one. Next time, try to use a different web site. I would also like to say that even if video games DO cause aggression, it would be very little and would most likely just affect a particular group of people. Pretty much kids. - ""Another argument to the negative affects of video games is that they cause desensitization to individuals"". Now I suppose that video games do cause desensitization to individuals, I don't necessarily see how this is a bad thing at all actually. Just because these people aren't affected by violence, doesn't mean their most likely to cause violence or do anything bad. It also doesn't mean that they aren't affected by REAL LIFE violence since real life violence and video game violence are two whole entire different things. They aren't going to become non emotional sadistic people. There is no actual proof of this. If there is actual proof, then show me. - The con still hasn't answered a MAJOR question that I've asked him, has he/she ever played violent video games? If so, then did you feel any aggression? -If you see all of the articles about video game violence, you'll see one thing in common, the age group. The people that are making these articles about video games are only talking about KIDS and video game violence. They didn't mention anything about adults at all, because they know that their mature enough to be able to handle these violent games. But did you know, the average gamer is ACTUALLY 30 years old. The point that I'm trying to make of this is that when you say video games cause violence, maybe you should actually say video games cause violence for children, because the people who make those articles know that video games won't make adults behave more aggressively. But, the average gamer is 30 years old....... http://www.g4tv.com... ""It has actually been shown by the FBI that many perpetrators of mass shootings played violent video games often. Is it a mere coincidence, or could violent video games have induced those horrible acts of violence? Would all of those offender's behaviors been affected by symptoms shown in some of the arguments above."" Do you have any proof? Actually, I think your LYING because I just found an article claiming that the FBI doesn't think that video games cause violence. http://www.gameskinny.com... And another article; http://kotaku.com... So what do you think? -""Another point is that violent video games are more harmful than television shows, comics and other things of the like as they depict you; or a virtual version of you, performing those violent acts. It makes it all too easy to picture oneself doing violent things is if one has already done them in an alternate reality, with no punishment (referring to earlier argument mentioned)."" First of all, I never said that video games are more harmful than tv shows and comics, I specifically said that wouldn't violent tv shows and comics have the same effect as violent video games? Yet you still haven't clearly answered that question, the con seems to be trying to avoid the question. -""Yet one more argument to point out is that video games often promote violence as a suitable resolution to various conflicts. Rather than simulating talking problems out in a civilized manner, the cause and effect flow on from an altercation is usually violence or warfare of some sort. What is this teaching the players, if not violence?"" I would just like to make clear that I never said that video games are resolutions to various conflicts. I just said that they relieved stress. Of course video games wouldn't solve real world problems, because it's a virtual world. Also I would like to ask you something, in one point or another in life, haven't you ever had a huge anger burst and the way you tried to calm yourself was by maybe shouting or punching the wall (at one moment of your life). Video games have the same effect as this except you wouldn't be smashing anything in real life, but you would just be killing things in the virtual world. All of my fellow gamers out there would understand. -Like I've said before, I WANT you to play a violent video game like mortal kombat or call of duty before you post your next argument. I also want you to tell me how you felt when you played those games. I think it would only be fair for this type of debate. Anyways, this is my share of my argument."	PRO	188
188	Sa89adc77-Ac0199d63	Video games have positive benefits.	Non sequitur Con states video games have negative impacts, but that is not the topic of this debate. Something can have positive attributes while having negative attributes as well. So even if video games do have negative attributes that does not negate the resolution. For con to win he must show that video gave have no positive benefits at all. 1) Positive benefits Video games improve cognitive experience and improve problem solving capabilities. Video games help people react faster, have greater awareness , and even help people develops advanced problem solving capabilities. all of the above are positive benefits ( https://www.apa.org... ) resolution affirmed.	PRO	189
189	Sd645cdfb-A76702c4d	video games help	"I, too am a video gamer. And I cannot but acknowledge whatever research you got this from. I'm glad that it does something good as well. The unfortunate thing is that online video games create an element of competition amongst friends, mostly combined with the loser being laughed at. It can be really frustrating for gamers, they can get mad to such a level there is simply no fun left. Not only that, but they achieve nothing in life. The amount of gamers that make a living off gaming (on youtube, competition...) is so small, yet when talking about popular franchises; some players really put many hours into them. I believe everyone knows examples of people that waste too much time gaming, but ofcourse, it's only waste when you're not having fun! (to a limited extent of time, ofcourse). Not only that, but video games also cost alot of money these days. They are simply too expensive. These were the elements that I find disadvantageous to gaming. In reply to your arguments, I cannot refute that they help in a medical way. Only about the ""fighting spirit"" I can say that there are some bad sides to this. Adult males playing video games will, unlike kids, be taking a blow to the head less serious (movies are to blame too) and that might result in street fights happening more often - with the disastrous consequences."	CON	190
190	S7ba93df6-Afc8162aa	Video games are actually good for you	"Does your mother constantly nag at you for playing video games? Telling you that they""ll ruin your eyesight and social skills? Some studies show that video games can actually be good for you. Video games do not cause bad eyesight or a decrease in social skills, they can benefit the brain, help with school achievement, and can help keep criminals off the streets. From slowing the aging process, helping Dyslexic kids reading better, to improving eyesight, video games do it all. Drew Guarini, author of ""9 Ways Video Games Can Actually be Good for You"" ofn the Huffington Post, says, ""A study of 681 healthy individuals ages 50 and older revealed that playing 10 hours of a specially designed video game was able to stall the natural decline of different cognitive skills by up to seven years, in some cases."" This data is helpful because, this means video games can help families who are worried about someone with Alzheimer""s, if a family member were to hear about this they would be able to research more and figure out what video games would help the best to keep the person young in the mind. As stated in ""9 Ways Video Games Can Actually be Good for You"" the author claims that a study performed by the University of Padua shows that playing fast paced video games can help Dyslexic kids read better. ""The team separated children age 7 to 13 into two groups, one of which played an action game called ""Rayman Raving Rabids"" while the other played a lower tempo game. ""When the reading skills of the children were tested afterwards, those who played the action game were capable of reading faster and more accurately."" This information could aid parents who did not know how to help their Dyslexic child, or maybe the parents know how to help their child but the kid is not interested in the parent""s idea. This option would likely appeal to kids better. According to Drew Guarini, video games can also improve your eyesight. ""In the 2009 study, expert action gamers played first-person shooting games like ""Unreal Tournament 2004"" and ""Call of Duty"" while non-experienced action gamers played ""The Sims 2."" Those playing the shoot-'em-up games saw a boost in their ""contrast sensitivity function,"""" In other words, playing more action packed video games can help you react and analyze data coming from your eyes. This means we could try and correct bad eyesight with video games containing more action. Parents who think video games do not bring benefits when playing may say something along the lines of how they didn""t have video games when they were younger and that they are more well rounded because they spent more time outside. The truth is that times have changed, most kids in society play video games. Also, kids will always be playing some sort of games, when parents were younger they must have played games outside, this kept them busy. Video games are this centuries way of occupying themselves and staying out of parents"" hair. Many people have been linking violence in society to video games, claiming that these games cause shootings and other violence in players, but it turns out there is no actual data that shows this claim. This claim is false and as relevant as saying our tap water causes violence. 91% of society plays video games with all ranges of violence, therefore making that claim is useless and proves nothing. Erik Kain, author of ""Do Games like ""Grand Theft Auto V"" Cause Real-World Violence?"", voices that ""Overall, violent crime is down in the US""indeed, as violent video games have become more popular, violent crime has fallen."" Which means that violent video games are doing the exact opposite than the other side states. Steve Levitt has an interesting hypothesis, he suggests that, ""Potential criminals aren""t committing crimes because they are spending so much time playing violent video games."" Or maybe these violent video games are good for those who need to let out a little anger, they take the anger out on some fiction world instead of taking it out on someone in real life. In Steven Pinker""s book, The Better Angels of Our Nature, Pinker writes that despite high profile acts of digital savagery, we are actual living in the safest period in the history of history. Along with those facts, developers are coming out with more and more gruesome and violent video games and millions are buying them, this must play a part in how low crime rates have been. Countless parents and other adults are against the act of playing video games and often think less of children or teens who game. Dara Mohammadi""s article, ""How Online Gamers are Solving Science""s Biggest Problems"", documents that ""In 2011, people playing Foldit, an online puzzle game about protein folding, resolved the structure of an enzyme that causes an Aids-like disease in monkeys. Researchers had been working on the problem for 13 years. The gamers solved it in three weeks."" This means developers could make games like Foldit and come up with a solution for fatal human diseases. Mohammadi also stated that ""people playing an astronomy game called Planet Hunters found a curious planet with four stars in its system, and to date, they've discovered 40 planets that could potentially support life, all of which had been previously missed by professional astronomers."" What else could these games help with? Could players come up with the cure for Cancer? Now when your mother or any other adult goes to nag you about gaming, you have evidence to support playing video games. You can tell them how video games slow the aging process, help Dyslexic kids read better, and improve eyesight. Other things you can tell them is that video games are keeping potential criminals off the streets and solving science""s biggest problems."	PRO	191
191	Sc958dc5a-A902998c5	Violent video games should NOT be banned	"First of all this is my first debate so go easy on me. Lets start, Most of the bad effects of video games are blamed on the violence they contain. Children who play more violent video games are more likely to have increased aggressive thoughts, feelings, and behaviors, and decreased prosocial helping, according to a scientific study (Anderson & Bushman, 2001). The effect of video game violence in kids is worsened by the games"" interactive nature. In many games, kids are rewarded for being more violent. The act of violence is done repeatedly. The child is in control of the violence and experiences the violence in his own eyes (killings, kicking, stabbing and shooting). This active participation, repetition and reward are effective tools for learning behavior. Indeed, many studies seem to indicate that violent video games may be related to aggressive behavior (such as Anderson & Dill, 2000; Gentile, Lynch & Walsh, 2004). However, the evidence is not consistent and this issue is far from settled. Many experts including Henry Jenkins of Massachusetts Institute of Technology have noted that there is a decreased rate of juvenile crime whch coincides with the popularity of games such as Death Race, Mortal Kombat, Doom and Grand Theft auto. He concludes that teenage players are able to leave the emotional effects of the game behind when the game is over. Indeed there are cases of teenagers who commit violent crimes who also spend great amount of time playing video games such as those involved in the Columbine and Newport cases. It appears that there will always be violent people, and it just so happen that many of them also enjoy playing violent video games. Too much video game playing makes your kid socially isolated. Also, he may spend less time in other activities such as doing homework, reading, sports, and interacting with the family and friends. Some video games teach kids the wrong values. Violent behavior, vengeance and aggression are rewarded. Negotiating and other nonviolent solutions are often not options. Women are often portrayed as weaker characters that are helpless or sexually provocative. Games can confuse reality and fantasy. Academic achievement may be negatively related to over-all time spent playing video games. Studies have shown that the more time a kid spends playing video games, the poorer is his performance in school. (Anderson & Dill, 2000; Gentile, Lynch & Walsh, 2004). A study by Argosy University's Minnesota School on Professional Psychology found that video game addicts argue a lot with their teachers, fight a lot with their friends, and score lower grades than others who play video games less often. Other studies show that many game players routinely skip their homework to play games, and many students admitted that their video game habits are often responsible for poor school grades. Although some studies suggest that playing video games enhances a child""s concentration, other studies, such as a 2012 paper published in Psychology of Popular Media Culture, have found that games can hurt and help children's attention issues "" improving the ability to concentrate in short bursts but damaging long-term concentration. Video games may also have bad effects on some children""s health, including obesity, video-induced seizures. and postural, muscular and skeletal disorders, such as tendonitis, nerve compression, carpal tunnel syndrome. When playing online, your kid can pick up bad language and behavior from other people, and may make your kid vulnerable to online dangers. A study by the Minneapolis-based National Institute for Media and the Family suggests that video games can be addictive for kids, and that the kids' addiction to video games increases their depression and anxiety levels. Addicted kids also exhibit social phobias. Not surprisingly, kids addicted to video games see their school performance suffer. Kids spending too much time playing video games may exhibit impulsive behavior and have attention problems. This is according to a new study published in the February 2012 issue of the Journal of Psychology and Popular Media Culture. For the study, attention problems were defined as difficulty engaging in or sustaining behavior to reach a goal."	CON	192
192	Scc799d93-Aa74dac54	Some video games are bad for kids	"Millions of people spend hours on video games. That is cold stated fact known by all in this century. All in all is it beneficial for us in moving forward? Many people believe that video games are harmful to kids. Others may say it""s builds creativity in our mind. Although Video Games can be beneficial if appropriate .Video games helped me build a strong imaginary. It opens your mind to possibilty most positive but also negative. For instance Super Mario, amazing story line gives kids a super hero and a creative mind set were not all bad guys are not bad. Which is great and positive thing but not all kids play Super Mario or super hero games. Now as we go with increase technology more play video games it""s easy to get to. With increase technology and low amount of parents of watching what activity kids play in their games more filth can be in taken. Many kids can download ""inappropriate"" games without parents being verified.Due to all of this kids are playing wrongful games brought up by friends who let borrow games, downloaded games etc. Yes Kids are rotten kids minds as we go one. I""ve had experienced this effect even now playing video games as a 16 year old. I played a game where you put a chip in somebody""s phone and when you call them it blew their brains out. After I""ve seen that I freaked out for a lil bit knowing that can really happen in life. That was my reaction to it imagine a child""s response to that like your lil kid, or nephew they would be scared, terrified etc. In conclusion kids shouldn""t be playing so much video games. It helps but very little it mostly destroys the mind. By personal experience more kids have to be more active before the 40 or 60 not being able to run due to joint damage. All in all make our kids active today for a better much more active tomorrow"	PRO	193
193	Sb83ffb49-Ab4bc3916	Should Video Games be Restricted by Parents	Should kids be restricted from playing video games? I believe that kids should be allowed to play video games for the following reasons; they relief stress, they are very fun, and they are educational. -Relieves stress -students come home after school stressed out -playing video games allow them to forget about their worries and relax -When all stress is relieved, his/her mood is back to normal and will do better in his/her work -Very fun -ex: Minecraft -You can play with other people from around the world in your games -You can go kill monsters and other players Educational -Sometimes includes lots of thinking -Makes your mind sharper -Can make your reflexes faster In summary video games are very beneficial. Video games can relief our stress, very fun, and educational That is why I believe that kids should not be restrained from playing video games	CON	194
194	Sd5c9fd7c-Af7d1c652	Video games do not cause violence`	Hello there con, I think that the setup you have for this debate is a pretty valid and good setup. So yes, I think we might as well go with that set up. So with that said, I'm going to be posting my arguments for the first round. Here we go; -The Supreme court itself even said that video games do not cause violence. I just wanted to point this out. I would also like to add that the supreme court definitely wouldn't make a claim without actual concrete proof. Because they ARE the supreme court after all. -US news article states that video games do not cause violent. http://www.usnews.com... I'm just going to let you read that by yourself. -From my own personal experience playing all of the violent and bloody video games, I can safely say that they haven't influenced any kind of dramatic or over the top behavior that has influenced me to do violent things. I would also like to add that I am in fact a minor as well. Not going to go into any more specific details. - If video games actually DID cause violence, then wouldn't we be seeing more crime on the news? Think about it. Wouldn't there be more shootings, fights, and robberies? Of course not. Though occasionally, there maybe some person who DOES decide to commit murder because of video games. But it happens RARELY. Very rarely. -If video games did cause violence, then wouldn't movies, television, and comics cause violence as well? There is definitely plenty of violence going on in all 3 of them. Though ironically, the people who accuse video games of causing violence, usually don't think that either of those 3 things mentioned cause violence either. And I do understand the violence is being accused mostly for the kids. But haven't you ever seen a little boy or girl coming into the movies watching something like the avengers, or something like James Bond? - There are a HUGE variety of video games out there in the world. And not all of them are violent. Heck. some of them are the exact opposite of violent. So when your saying that video games cause violence. then maybe you should specify which type of video game genre it is. Because just saying that video games as a whole cause violence is wrong, because not all video games are even violent. But I know what you're thinking con, so in the next argument. I'm going to be going over why the violent video games don't cause violence. -Violent video games actually RELIVE yourself from stress. http://www.makeuseof.com... -I myself would like to ask the con an honest question about video games, have you yourself ever played a violent game like call of duty or halo? And have you ever felt any signs of aggression after you did? I just wanted to ask that.	PRO	195
195	Sd0e5c093-A7a4ae76	should vilent video games be banned	Violent video games require active participation, repetition, and identification with the violent character. With new game controllers allowing more physical interaction, the immersive and interactive characteristics of video games can increase the likelihood of youth violence. Playing violent video games causes the development of aggressive behavioral scripts . A behavioral script is developed from the repetition of actions and affects the subconscious mind. An example of a common behavioral script is a driving script that tells drivers to get in a vehicle, put on a seat belt, and turn on the ignition. Similarly, violent video games can lead to scripts that tell youth to respond aggressively in certain situations. Violence in video games may lead to real world violence when scripts are automatically triggered in daily life, such as being nudged in a school hallway.	PRO	196
196	Sc958dc5a-Ae1eb94ac	Violent video games should NOT be banned	"I think video games should be banned because there are much more better things to do that are more healthy for you. Not only do they take little physical movement but they also use electricity. Kids should be involved with a sport or school. But a pro to video games is the wii. Some games on it are actually good exercise for you. Try the "" WiiFit"" It all depends if video games are getting in the way of better things that you can do. Violent video games are not just violent on the screen-the violence can often be seen in the players actions afterwards. Popular war-based games such as Call of Duty and World of Warcraft can make the player lose respect for military and past wars. They also lose respect for the sanctity of life by underestimating the seriousness in killing or injuring another being."	CON	197
197	S7b564465-Af754954f	Should Video Games be less Violent	"Not all video games are violent. And even if those video games are violent, those are not bad for you. According to American Psychologist journal, playing video games may improve learning, health and social skills and strengthen a range of cognitive abilities. The researchers behind the study also said the children""s creativity was also added by video game play even if it is violent. However, the study would be false if a child is playing violent games in computer or mobile. Also, according to the study, although the game is violent (for example, shooting games), it boosts up a player""s scope to think about objects in three dimensions just as well as academic courses built to enhance the same skills would. (Natural World News) An Oxford study suggests that playing violent video games is ""no more likely to ruin young child""s behavior than those considered not harmful."" Rather than their content, the research found out that the time young people spend playing games (more than three hours) has an effect on their behavior or their performance in school, even if slightly. (Telegraph UK) And, video games are not as harmful as parents"" think it is. AP Study Notes presented details how violent video games aid children and economy. Violent video games give healthy and safe opportunities for children to analyze rules and aftereffects of violent doings. It also allows young people to experiment with issues such as war, violence, and death without experiencing it live. By allowing adolescent boys to play these games, it lowers the chance of causing physical harm and it also grants them of displaying assault and such without doing it in the real world. A 2007 study finds out that 45% of boys played these kind of games because ""it helps me get my anger out"" and 62% played it because ""it helps me relax."" Violent video games, according to ProCon.org, do not cause low levels of empathy for children. And, if you are to banning violent video games will never be able to do that because of the following: ""The Joint State Government Commission (2008): Video games are protected by the First Amendment of the United States Constitution, and laws imposing restrictions on their sales must withstand ""strict scrutiny,"" an exacting legal test that virtually guarantees invalidation. The courts have found that the social science research on the dangers age-appropriate games pose for children is insufficient to support statutory restrictions on free expression and that the existence of an effective voluptuary rating system makes penalties unnecessary (p. 2). Western culture has frequently dwelt on violence from its origins in Homer""s epic poetry and Greek drama down to such later media as the novel and the opera. Movies, popular music, and television all deal routinely with depictions of violent acts. If measures are taken to address the effects of violent media, it is important that no particular form of media is unfairly discriminated against (p. 1)."" ProCon also states that a relationship between violent video games and a player""s behavior is not proven."	PRO	198
198	S76692401-Ae8543603	Are Video Games Too Expensive	I think video games are too expensive because if I want to buy a video game I need to save up for about 20 weeks	PRO	199
199	S4b5a7a70-A10d9efa4	Video Games are the new art form	"This round I going to repudiate some of my opponent's points. 1. ""The majority of the players... do not look for a 'deeper' meaning"" While I agree with this point, I don't see it as a valid argument for saying that video games are not an art. When people watch films or look at a picture or read a book, most of those people aren't looking for the deeper meaning either, but yet we still consider art forms. If someone can enjoy an action movie without seeing it underlying message about war, its equally true that someone can play a video game and not see its underlying meaning(s). Most art doesn't have a deep meaning unless you really look for it, something not enough people do in video games. 2. ""I believe most creators do not intend so either"" (in the context of creating deep games) I assume this statement means that you believe that when developers make a game, they don't actually try to make it deep, and any depth in game is there by pure coincidence. I can tell you for a fact that this is wrong. Developers spend years working on a game, spending more time than they have to so that their game is amazing. They go over all parts of the story, game play, art style, and music a thousand times; its no accident that games have this amount of depth. Please note that many game writers are actually novelist who have decided to write for games now. They inject as much depth and complexion into the story in the video game as they do in any novel they write 3. It's a video game not real life Something doesn't have to be real for it to be deep and have meaning. There are tons of books and movies that very loosely resemble our way of life, yet still are deep. None of these books, movies, or even art is real, but yet we still find a deeper meaning in it. 4. ""'Grand Theft Auto Series'"" You use this series (the go to game series for anyone opposed to video games) to say even though they're might be some deep games, most of them are not. But asking for every game to be deep is like asking every song to win a Grammy or every movie to get an Oscar; the simple fact is that not every video game is great. The video game industry has had its share of flops (Duke Nukem Forever) and senseless titles (COD MW3), just as with any other art form. Every video game shouldn't be expected to be a masterpiece. 5. ""What does videogames provide aside form entertainment"" Here's just a few I thought up on the spot they let relatively introverted people interact and be social in an environment they feel comfortable in they can teach you advance problem solving skills they teach people how to work towards and achieve a goal they touch a multitude of idea that can make a player think about them in a different way they can teach players about real world subjects, be it math or terrorism they can lead players to have much more strategic thinking 6. ""For man students, Art is their prime motivation for coming to school whereas kids do not complete their homework because they are too busy playing video games"" (and you go on further to talk about video game addiction) First and foremost, just because someone is addict to something or not does not determine whether it qualifies as an art; they have no correlation. You argue that people go to school for other arts, video games only take away from school. The fact is that people are going to school for video games every day and getting degrees in everything from video game design to production. There's no doubt that schools have embraced video games as a new art. Thanks for responding to my initial argument and I wish you the best of luck in your response!"	PRO	200
200	Se42653aa-A381d6e69	Video games don't equal violence	Violent video games have been blamed for school shootings, increases in bullying, and violence towards women. Critics argue that these games desensitize players to violence, reward players for simulating violence, and teach children that violence is an acceptable way to resolve conflicts. First of all dont always believe in the news. the news could be unreliable and it doesnt even give two sides of a story this is the reason most people think violent games cause havok when it doesnt. Also if Video games are so bad and it teaches children violence how come China a place with twice more games than U.S and most of those games are shooting. How come the crimerate is very low. First of all the supreme court went against the act of banning violent video games. On April 20, 1999, two seniors kids walked into their high school carrying rifles, and they opened fire. They shot tons of people, killing 12 students and one teacher and the people were appalled. School shootings had happened before, but this was a violence shooting and in the ensuing search for answers it came out the shooters had spent a lot of time playing violent video games. (Source- how stuff works) Since then, the entertainment proclivities of the shooters are one of the first things reported by the press. There was a 20-year-old who killed 20 first-graders and six educators at Sandy Hook Elementary in Connecticut in 2012 played violent video games. So did the 24-year-old high- schooler who shot dozens of people in an Aurora, Colo., movie theater in the First of all there has been many test so many test and these test has been redone over and over and it shows that school shootings are caused by mental illnesses. That is a big misunderstanding and video games can lead children into less physical fights. Adam Lanza was mentally illed so he saw a gun and he was unstabbled. Like said there is no link with games and the real world violence. If you said 97% is playing violent video games why isnt most of them causing crime and saying it is from video games? Video game sales increase during 1994-2010 and there has been a decrease in crime.	PRO	201
201	S9a1a8408-Abee78727	Video games are a serious art form.	"Note to contender: I don't mean for this to sound inflammatory, but since you're expressing admiration for certain video games, always make sure you capitalize their titles. Anyways, in his/her conclusion, the contender defined the video game as not only a serious art, but also the art for a variety of reasons: 1. It is interactive. 2. They combine multiple artistic mediums. 3. They are available to your doorstep/screen. 4. They entertain. 5. They transport the gamer from their life and into the life of the protagonists. So I'll admit one thing: the technical production of a video game is a display of creativity. OK, but I will be arguing against the judgement that the theory of the video game as a serious art is supported by any of the five reasons mentioned above. 1. ""It is interactive art"" Good enough. We must, however, remember, that if something is interactive, that typically means that whoever is experiencing it can change the outcome. When F. Scott Fitzgerald wrote The Great Gatsby, he was making a commentary on the American borgeoisie. (The following three sentences are typed in vague terms so that nothing is spoiled.) There is a break-up. Then there is an accidental death. Then there is a murder. No matter who read it, and no matter how quickly they read it, the same events occured at the end. When Stanley Kubrick directed 2001: A Space Odyssey, he wanted to warn us, as stated before, about the dangers of AI becoming too advanced. No matter who saw the movie, and no matter over how much time they saw it, the ending would be the same. Games, in a broad sense, are not like this. There are rules, and there is an objective. This is the primary difference between the video game and a high art like cinema or literature. Yes, people play video games with the intent of experiencing the atmosphere and the visuals, but the main motivation (and intended motivation by most game developers) for most people to keep playing is the desire to win the next level or beat the game. If something is expression, then the outcome should not be able to be changed all that much, whereas the way someone plays a video game could, in some cases, affect whether or not the entire game's universe ends. If people could change the ending of The Great Gatsby (like you can change the outcome of a video game by pressing the right buttons or going to the right places), F. Scott Fitzgerald's expression would not be much of an expression, because he would not actually write what it was he was trying to make commentary about. Likewise for Stanley Kubrick if filmgoers could change the outcome of 2001: A Space Odyssey and keep HAL 9000 obedient -- not all of Kubrick's vision would actually have been filmed. If someone could make Romeo not drink the poison by pressing the A button enough times and fast enough, would the ending of Romeo and Juliet have been half as emotionally profound? Video games are literally programmed to change themselves based on what the person playing them wants. 2. ""They are a mix and mash and show the co-operation of next to all other artistic medium [sic] available to the common man"" [...] ""we [sic] have sculpturing [sic], architecture, CGI [...]"" Okay, so video games combine music and visuals. Music: has any video game music had much of an influence on separately-released, commercial music? Also note that nearly all video game music is instrumental (if not, there are some vocal chants) and composed only to fit the tone and/or action of the game. In other words, video game music is generally made simply as accompaniment to something else. In addition, none of the music in the YouTube videos linked above compare to a ""five-star orchestra piece."" The first song linked is not even an orchestra piece; it is a piano piece. Few things grant it any more attention than elevator music. OK, so maybe the last one linked sounds as if it could have been played with five or six different instrumentalists. But this is not ""five-star."" The great composers of two hundred years ago, on the other hand, were estimated to have often used over 100 people in an orchestra. Visuals: some game designs are quite impressive, but not even the best are comparable to the best paintings or sculptures. Most visuals are made to make the game more visually appealing to gamers. 3. ""They offer art right to your doorstep and to your screen"" This is not a video-games exclusive; just about all of today's popular arts have some form of availability to one's home. Books/e-Books can be purchased and kept on a reader's bookshelf. Albums can be bought, then shipped to your doorstep and imported to iTunes so you can play any of the songs from your computer screen whenever you want. Movies can be viewed with a Blu-ray/DVD player. 4. ""Video games [...] entertain you"" So do sports. But nobody calls basketball an art. We all refer to it as a sport, which is something that has rules and an objective, and an outcome that can be changed... 5. ""Video games [...] transport you from your life and into the life [sic] of the characters that inhabit them"" This goes back to the argument issue of games being ""interactive"" (mentioned in rebuttal to quoted reason #1). Heavy Rain (2010) was not about teaching the gamer what to do for someone they loved so much as simply seeing what the gamer would do for someone they loved...that's even pretty similar to the game's tagline: ""How far will you go to save someone you love?"" Rather than making a statement (like art does), it asks a question. The narrative completely changes based on what the gamer wants, meaning it is chaste -- something Pablo Picasso once said art can never be. Oh, and I never said that art MUST influence other art. I simply typed that video games not having as much crossover influence as music, film, et cetera is a sign that the video game is not a high art form. Bobby Fischer wasn't afraid to admit that chess was a sport. As with chess and other sports, video games: 1. are limited by rules. 2. have objectives. 3. have outcomes that can be changed according to what the person playing them wants. The design of a video game may show artistic talent, but video games are called video games for a reason. They are not made to satirize or comment; they are made to be played. Notice how when you go to a museum, you are not allowed to touch the paintings? What about when you listen to an album, and the disc is in the player where you finger can't reach it? Games operate the opposite way; they are made to be modified by people who didn't make them. I won't pull a Roger Ebert and stubbornly say that video games can NEVER be art, but so far it's not impressive enough. No video game designer has made a game worthy of comparison with the masterpieces by Orson Welles, F. Scott Fitzgerald, the Velvet Underground, etc. Maybe the defink this is what makes the average gamer appreciate the games he/she plays. If you took away his/her ability to change the outcome, a gamer's temptation to keep playing for five/10 more minutes than planned would not be half as strong. [1] 2001: A Space Odyssey. Dir. Stanley Kubrick. Prod. Stanley Kubrick. By Stanley Kubrick, Arthur C. Clarke, Geoffrey Unsworth, and Ray Lovejoy. Perf. Keir Dullea and Gary Lockwood. Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, 1968. Blu-ray Disc. [2] Fitzgerald, Francis Scott. The Great Gatsby. New York, NY: Scribner, 1925. Print. [3] http://en.wikipedia.org... [4] http://www.ign.com... [5] http://www.metacritic.com... [6] http://www.rogerebert.com... [7] http://www.theguardian.com... [8] Shakespeare, William. Romeo and Juliet. District of Columbia: Folger Shakespeare Library, 2004. Print. [9] Wikipedia"	CON	202
202	Sc827393f-Ae062706f	violent video games should be banned	"You have referenced a study from 2007 which showed that violent video games don't have negative affects but since that study violent video games have become bloodier and more realistic. I read an article and the author quoted ""Video games may not be the root of school shootings, fights or any other violent acts from teens or children but they are contributing to the mindset that these actions are okay"". There are many video games rated mature that underaged children play which causes aggression."	PRO	203
203	S8769b9cf-Abbf3f474	Violent Video games cause desensitization	If the army doesn't use video games to desensitize soldiers, why did the army put 50 million dollars into research for video games? You said video games aren't used to get soldiers used to killing, but it teaches them what to expect. It doesn't help them get over killing, but it helps them expect killing? That sounds like circular thinking to me. Soldiers out of the military have said that the military uses video games to train. I think they know more than me or you about this subject.	PRO	204
204	S74ad1395-A8c944d6c	Why video games are good for you.	I would like to make an argument with your statement, ' kid spend way to mush time in front of the tv screen they can become fat,volint, and can cause seizure and that is just some of the reasons'. Many kids gain weight every day, I play video games many times a day, but I play sports and don't eat a lot. When I play video games, yeah I might eat chips, but I work it off, in many video games statisticts have shown that for Wii Fit people have lost weight, COD and Battlefield aren't the ONLY video games on the planet.	PRO	205
205	Sc51b1af2-A5b462fe5	Video games make you violent	"Hello. I contend that video games have caused a nonzero amount of violence. PROOF 1: The topic is: ""Video games make you violent"". I am the ""you"" in this sentence. Video games make me violent. When I am displeased with a game I say foul words like ""darn"" or ""gosh golly"". That's verbal violence right there. PROOF 2: Video game rage can be violent. Evidence: I rest my case."	PRO	206
206	S8db68a9b-Af760348d	Video games encourage violent behavior	In a nutshell, you state that the act of playing video games turns the players into illogical and induces stress, which causes violence. However, you must keep in mind the following: 1: A video game is played for entertainment. I'd like you to explain how games cause stress (Physical strain does not count. We are talking about mental strain, as that is the argument you are using here.). 2: If playing violent video games increases violent behavior in children, as your argument stated, then why is that South Korea, a country that plays over two times more video games than the United States has ZERO shootings out of a sample of 100,000? Sources: [1]: http://en.wikipedia.org... (States that video games are intended for entertainment) [2] http://www.washingtonpost.com... (States that video games have no correlation with youth violence, often associated with shootings/gun murders) If you have any other arguments to present, please do. Until then, I will await your response.	CON	207
207	S5b6b23f-A2723e727	Violent Video Games	"But in order to buy a M rated game you need an ID showing that you are 17+ or you need to be with an adult"" This is irrelevant, I know a 16 year old that bought a few Mature rated game without ID. Also, this was not part of my original argument. My point was some parents were knowingly buying these games for their children. ""...on how they acted like 1st graders."" This is not related to the debate. ""...like 20 years old that might want to play a M rated game."" Again, this has nothing related to this game. ""The kids your talking about are problem just trying to be cool..."" False, they did this when no one was around as well. ""...get peoples attention to they can be popular"" Once again, they got popular because they were held back several times and most of them are still in that grade. This is also a unnecessary comment, because I in detail explained how violent video games effected this. ""But who knows how they act outside of school, they could be their regular self."" Once again, I did. They acted the exact same as they did in school. That WAS their regular self's. ""...that they are having trouble with someone or something like that."" Once again, I explained in detail on how this was caused by video games. I know a few people before they started playing them, and they were very normal and non-violent. Not much I have to say, because you don't have any information to support this. ""But for others, it may offer opportunities to learn new skills and improve social networking"" This is not part of what I was debating about. My argument was about how violent video games can effect children who are not mature enough to play them. But, I do not deny this. Because it is true. ""The teenagers who were highly neurotic, less agreeable and less conscientious tended to be most adversely affected by violent video games"" Exactly, this is what my debate is trying to prove. ____________________________________________________________________________ Seeing that the Con has not proved much information that proves relevant, I will end my argument for round 2 here. Good luck to the con."	CON	208
208	S6812fbe6-A5fe32996	Video Games are an art form.	You have some interesting points, thank you for posting. First, I would like to refute the arguments that you gave. A:Video games have goals All forms of art have goals, the only difference is that it is up to the player whether or not these goals are reached. In the Odyssey, the goal was to get Odysseus home. In Titanic, the goal was for Jack and Rose to survive the sinking. In all other art forms, it is up to the creator whether or not these goals are obtained, but the goals are still there. B:Deliberation What about cinema and photography? The first movie was not accidentally shot, then shown in movie theaters. The first photograph was taken deliberately. Yet both of these are considered art forms in today's society. Photography can be taken randomly, but the odds that it is admired among many people is highly unlikely. C:Creators of art Cinema and Drama both take many participants to make a masterpiece. Video games can be created by one man, but more than likely, it will suck. The same is true with Cinema and Drama. I think that the interaction of the gamers make it even closer to an art form. The creator must choose how the player interacts with the game, and this could make or break a game from becoming a masterpiece. It's just like an artist choosing the perspective angle of his drawing. Most forms of art also leave somethings up to the audience to determine. An example of this would be Ernest Hemingway's The Old Man and The Sea. It is up to the reader to determine if his final trip was a success or a failure. It depends on who you are on how the story ends. I also believe the goals you mentioned are also important to the art form. These goals determine how difficult the game is, and therefore determines that type of player that will enjoy the game the most. All forms of art have the same aspects. It depends on how funny a movie is to determine the type of people who will enjoy it. It depends on the detail of the painting to determine it's audience. It depends on the wording of a novel to determine if a kid is going to read it. These goals also could pertain to the story, making them all the more essential. I am also a lover of video games, and I realize their potential. If you have ever played Bioshock, it would be apparent that video games have the potential to have just as great artistic values as any other art form. People claim that most video games do not share these artistic values, but then I would like to point out that all art forms have it's crap. Cinema: Epic Movie, Twilight, and Santa Claus Conquers the Martians. Literature: Twilight. Music: rap. No art genre is perfect, and video games are no exception. But they are the newest of art forms, so we need to give it some time to evolve.	PRO	209
209	Sa5981922-A37edc47b	Violent video games being banned	"I am happy to accept this debate and hope my one argument will be compelling! Keep in mind, that I am a teenager and I too participate in violent video games, such as Call of Duty. I have accepted this debate simply for practice on debating different intriguing topics. I encourage everyone to vote based on who presented the best arguments and not on our own opinions. Thank you. I will begin by stating my arguments then proceed to pointing out some flaws in my opponents case Blood and gore intense violence, strong language, strong sexual content, and use of drugs. These are the words that you will see on every M-Rated Violent Video Game. The people who rated these games are not lying. The words speak for themselves. In this Debate, I will prove that the bad effects of video gaming outweigh the so called ""fun"" of video gaming. For these reasons and more, I strongly affirm the resolution which states: that Resolved: Violent video games should be banned. Contention #1: Brain Change A new study, conducted at Indiana University School of Society and presented at the congress of the Society of Radiology in Chicago found the first hard evidence of the effects of video games using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Playing violent video games for only one week can change the brain in regions associated with cognitive function and emotional control, the study found. A volunteer group of 22 young men aged between 18 and 29 years with low past exposure to video games were asked to play Call of Duty games for 10 hours a week for one week and to avoid playing at all the following week. A second volunteer group didn't play a violent video game at all. Each group was performed a test that quizzed their emotional and functional parts of the brain After only one week, those volunteers who played violent video games showed less activation in the area of the brain that control emotion and aggression. What this basically means: The test speaks for itself, playing video games effects how people think and tares apart their emotional and logical sides of their brains and can only lead to more harm than good. Contention #2: Why It's Particularly Bad for Young Brains Little kids have a hard time distinguishing the line between the real-world and the gaming world, as young minds are still forming what is real and what is make-believe. To kids, these virtual experiences feel very real, not only because the graphics today are so amazing, but because they are taking on a first-person role in the killing process. Rather than just watching a rated-R violent movie, when kids play a game, they are one of the main characters inside the adventure. The entire experience becomes a more meaningful -- and deadly -- in their brains, which are forming new connections What this basically means: Smaller children are affected the worst by video games because they cannot see the line between the real world and the gaming world. These kind of problems can lead to school attacks. An excellent example of such is the Connecticut school shooting. Adam Lanza was an American teenager who killed 26 innocent people during a school shooting. Adam went to the Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut on Dec. 14 and shot dead 20 children and 6 adults, including the school principal. He also killed his mother, Nancy Lanza, before he went to the school. He then killed himself, and the entire community has been left reeling in the wake of the horrific massacre. This is all because of video games. Adam was obsessed with Call of Duty, a very popular M-rated video game, and other extremely video games. Now on to my opponents case: First argument: If people ban the violent video games, and correct me if i'm wrong, it will almost wipe out our economy. My response: You are wrong.... this argument make absolutely no sense. Our country sells millions of other items to citizen of America and citizens all over the world to keep the economy. Another argument my opponent made: The mass killer, Adam Lanza, the guy that killed 26 people in Newtown, Conneticut, was not interested in video games as a child. My response to this: I would like to see some evidence on this because all the research I did brought me back to one point.... Adam Lanza was addicted to video games and guns in general. This should be another easy argument that should flow to my side simply because this is a key example of how video games can threaten citizens lives. Another argument stated: If the government regulates everything, what are we then? We aren't the free America that we used to be. We will be a dictatorship. A socialist country. And we don't want that. My response to this: Really? You believe that if the United States bands video games, we will turn into a dictatorship? I strongly encourage my opponent to do some research on dictatorship and socialist governments..... I believe my opponent had no other arguments that I need to address. Thanks for the fun and short debate! :) Sources: http://www.dailymail.co.uk...... http://www.africa-news.eu...... \ http://parentables.howstuffworks.com...... http://videogames.procon.org......"	PRO	210
210	Se62711e-Ac7e49d8e	Video Games do not Cause Violence	Sorry about the late response. The topic of video games' effect on violence levels has been debated for quite some time. I believe that video games do not have an effect on violence levels. Arguments: 1. Video games have been shown to have a calming effect. Recent studies have shown that video games have no effect or even the opposite effect on gamers. These studies show that gamers who were shown violent photos or photos with a negative connotation reacted the same as non-gamers. This study was published in an issue of Applied Cognitive Psychology. [1] [2] 2. Video gamers know about the difference between reality and fantasy. Another popular argument against video games is that gamers can't tell the difference between the video game world and the real world. This is not the case however, as many cases of gamers confusing them are not actually confusions of the virtual/real world, but just remembering repetitions. [3] Sources: 1. http://health.usnews.com... 2. http://gamepolitics.com... 3. http://www.rockpapershotgun.com...	PRO	211
211	S75fbfa8d-A8a96a15f	Violent video games, banning of	Let me get this straight. Out of a handful of violent act of CHILDREN you think that the government should, against the MAJORITY of peoples wills.. Ban Violent Video games for ALL PEOPLE So we are going to hurt businesses cut jobs, and the economy... Because you think that some parents have a hard time doing their job? You logic applies to cars as well. We should not drive cars because it can be used in violent acitons, And lets ban violent movies as well we will cure all violence with this! except... believe it or not. Violence is human nature. Before games, before movies, we still had killers, school bullies. and bad people. They do not need video games to do such a thing. I'll post a list of studies that refute your arguement http://www.independent.co.uk... http://psychcentral.com... http://www.theguardian.com...	CON	212
212	Sd94ca2d5-A64f8673	The content of Video Games	"According to the Columbine example, it may look as though these video games caused these teens to ""crossover"" but we have no hard evidence that it actually caused them to go out and do so. While they may have come from good families, and they received and gave the ""average"" bullying, and that might not have affected them as much as the game DOOM, there could have been more factors. Not only are there multiple factors there is a perception of schools that is wrong. According to Dr. Lawrence Kutner (http://www.huffingtonpost.com...) the violence in schools has gone down a lot. But there is much more coverage of schools which causes people to think that school are more dangerous. If you take a look at the game, DOOM, it is much less gory and violent compared to games such as Gears of War, or Call of Duty. Yet, violence has gone down, this proves the non affecting effects of video games."	CON	213
213	Sd94ca2d5-A262d526	The content of Video Games	No, violent or inappropriate video games do not necessarily cause teens to act violent. Hundreds of years before the present day, teens were surround with violent things. People would see death and violence much more often than we do today. Not only that, if video games did cause teens to be violent then we would see a much higher crime rate. According to http://www.pbs.org... According to federal crime statistics, the rate of juvenile violent crime in the United States is at a 30-year low. Not only that, but a 2001 U.S. Surgeon General's report, the strongest risk factors for school shootings centered on mental stability and the quality of home life, not media exposure. If you just take a look at the topic, it will be clear that violent games do not invoke violence in teens.	CON	214
214	S7ba93df6-Ab49a849a	Video games are actually good for you	I would like to thank my opponent for creating this debate. As she has not provided any framework, I will begin argumentation in this round, and also rebut her arguments as well. The BoP will be shared between the two sides. Pro must prove that video games aren’t harmful, while I must simply prove that they are not. Both Pro and Con must prove their side on a general basis. Whichever side more effectively solves their BoP should win the debate. Let’s begin. -=Case=- One of the most widely disputed topics in the modern age, video games, have been attacked and praised, put down and lifted up. I have definitely played my fair share of games, but I try to limit the exposure. Despite what personal beliefs may be, we need to look towards the experts, and find the cold hard facts as to whether or not video games are harmful. In doing so, I have found that video games are indeed harmful, and are a legitimate concern in our present society. It is for that reason that I negate the resolution which states, “Video games are actually good for you.” C1: Video games of violent nature are inherently detrimental. Although not all games are violent, we see an increasing majority of popular games being very violent and containing graphic images. An article published by Scholastic explains, “These [video] games can contain frightening images. Players are often facing an enemy in a fight, so the player is directly involved in a violent act. Mark Smith of Florida describes what he does in one game: “I’ll cut off a guy’s head,” says the 10-year-old. “Or sometimes I’ll take my sword and chop him into pieces.” [1] These actions can be not only imprinted on children’s minds, but also practiced by the children themselves. Steve Woodhouse, Steve Woodhouse, who is executive headteacher of The Wolds Federation of Schools described this effect, “Children who repeatedly play brutal video games are learning thought patterns that will stick with them and influence their behaviour as they grow older. Kids are playing on them not because parents don’t care, they don’t understand the content of these games and the impact they have on children over time.” [2] The most popular games are in the category of brutal and violent games, which will be a detriment to students in the present, but even more so later. Further, parents don’t realize the harms that come from the games, so they don’t do anything about it. Medical Expert James D. Sargent documents how such games can have a multitude of harms. In the study published by the Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, he finds, “Participants were selected with random-digit-dial procedures and followed for 4 years. Data were analyzed with linear mixed modeling to assess change over time and structural equation modeling with latent variables to test hypothesized mediational processes. Among those who play video games, playing MRRG [mature rated, risk glorifying] games was associated with increases in all measures of behavioral deviance. Mediational models support the hypothesis that these effects are in part a consequence of the effects of such gameplay on sensation seeking and rebelliousness, attitudes toward deviant behavior in oneself and others, and affiliation with deviant peers.” [3] (Other contributors to this report include: Hull, Jay G.; Brunelle, Timothy J.; Prescott, Anna T.) The evidence is overwhelmingly in favor of the notion that MRRG games can and have caused great harms to individuals and families as well. C2: Video games consume time, which results in negative consequences. Besides explicit content having a fatalistic effect on gamers, we see that time spent playing the games also has a diverse effect. University Herald published a news article on March 31, 2014 that showed, “Researchers at the University of Oxford found that the time spent playing video games affected children's behavior. Their findings suggest that children who play video games for more than three hours a day are more likely to be hyperactive, get involved in fights and not be interested in school.” [4] This heightened chance of harms results from the time spent playing. In fact, most gamers play for extended periods of time. Besides this, it’s one of the few things they do. Jack White, famous American musician says, “This generation is so dead. You ask a kid, 'What are you doing this Saturday?' and they'll be playing video games or watching cable, instead of building model cars or airplanes or doing something creative. Kids today never say, 'Man, I'm really into remote-controlled steamboats.'” [5] Simply too much time spent in front of a screen is bound to be detrimental. C3: Video game play is directly linked to criminalistic behavior. The games themselves can have mind-altering effects that can cause gamers to commit crimes they would have from which they would have otherwise abstained. Associate professor of psychiatry Vladan Starcevic exemplifies this in the report “Are Violent Video Games Harmful” which states, “The 1993 game ‘Doom’ belonged to the ‘first person shooter’ genre and was played by Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold before they went on a shooting rampage at Columbine High School in 1999, killing 12 fellow students and one teacher, before committing suicide. The two killers had mentioned the game in a video they made before the massacre, stating it would be ‘just like Doom.’” [6] The criminals themselves evidenced that their actions were in direct correlation to the violent game they had been playing. A study titled “Children, Adolescents, and the Media” done by Victor C. Strasburger, professor of pediatrics at the University of New Mexico School of Medicine gives input on how games can provide that mind altering effect on gamers. “Studies suggest that violent video games increase aggression by increasing aggressive thoughts and emotions, even when their physiologic arousal properties have been controlled. Playing violent video games can prime aggressive thoughts, increase positive attitudes toward violence, and help create a hostile attribution bias: a tendency to perceive other people’s behaviors as malevolent.” [7] Because of these mind altering factors, games are definitely dangerous and can lead to criminalistic behavior. -=Rebuttals=- My opponent brings up a variety of points concerning how video games are beneficial. However, most of what she brings up concerns games that are not MRRG games. Games such as those are somewhat beneficial due to the required thinking and problem solving. However, just like any other video game, the screen time is harmful psychologically and to the eyes as well. Popular Science published an article by Daniel Engber that explained, “staring at screens can cause discomfort, says Mark Rosenfield of the State University of New York’s College of Optometry. In a study conducted by his lab, about 40 percent of office workers from a sample in Manhattan reported having symptoms of eyestrain for at least half the time they’re on duty—a condition he calls “Computer Vision Syndrome.” [8] According to my opponent, games have led to scientific discoveries. However, these are once again harmful just do to screen time. Furthermore, findings such as those are very few and far between. Overall, we see negative consequences of video games around the world. Sources: [1] http://www.scholastic.com... [2] http://www.pocklingtonpost.co.uk... [3] http://psycnet.apa.org... [4] http://www.universityherald.com... [5] http://www.brainyquote.com... [6] http://www.easternct.edu... [7] http://public.psych.iastate.edu... [8] http://www.popsci.com...	CON	215
215	S3466ccde-A436b73f6	Video Games cause violence	"Brief Rebuttals to Brief points a) - Whether a video game condones nonviolent or ethical components in association with violence is not really relevant, as it is the exposure to the images of graphic violence and how it is portrayed as a normal element in media that allows young people to grow up and become more systematically violent (though not necessarily criminally violent) b) - Whether or not there is punishment or reconciliation, the game still promotes violence as being an overall 'fun' activity. Some games don't cause violence, but the resolution is not that ""All video games cause violence"". In conclusion, I have won this debate because I have filled my BoP with reliable sources to back it. Vote for me!"	PRO	216
216	Sdafffd65-A8aefeead	Video Games Are An Art Form	"Closing: I have given ample evidence to support my claim that video games art indeed art. I feel that my contender has not given any evidence suggest that it is not art, and therefore I believe I have won this debate. It seems to me that my opponent might have changed his mind with the statement, ""I must say you do make a point that video games are art."" So that should be even more reasoning behind my claim to victory."	PRO	217
217	S75fbfa8d-A5d941e4e	Violent video games, banning of	I think that violent video games should be banned because what good are they doing to society!!! Violent video games encourage a more violent society. The exposure to violence such as killing and assault. The extent to this brutality has become ridiculous and we are letting people play them for hours on end. What is this doing to our young people who are influenced by what they watch. For example there was an 14 year old boy committed murder with a hammer after repeatedly playing manhunt which displays the same kind of violent behavior	PRO	218
218	S5b6b25e-A8e050fb7	Violent Video Games	"I'll accept with only a few clarifications 1. I would like to limit the scope of research to the US just for relevancy's sake. 2. I would prefer that instead of using the Pro's interpretation of ""encourage the user to become violent"" that we instead ONLY argue that ""they encourage the user to commit violent acts"" as it is much harder to judge the merits of what it means to ""become violent"". Just to be clear then the burden of proof is as follows Pro: Violent video games encourage the user to engage in violent acts. Con: Violent video games do not encourage the user to engage in violent acts. I look forward to debating you!"	CON	219
219	Sfb8c8cc0-A6f9c990c	video games are educational	Video Games like movies can be educational, but I'm sure you are not going to watch Barney over Spiderman 2 (the 2004 one of course). My question to you is: What can you learn from Call of Duty? What can you learn from Halo? What can you learn from Half-Life? What can you learn from Doom? These are the video games most people play. Tell me what I can learn from them.	CON	220
220	Sc82afe8b-A53bebdf2	Video games are a sport	"Sounds like this will be an interesting discussion. My opponent brings up the argument that video games are not a sport due to lack of physical activity. Pro argues that other activities with little physical activity are considered sports, but he does not challenge the fact that video games lack physical activity. Since we are agreed on this, I will use it as my Contention 1: Video games lack physical activity. Video games, such as Star Craft, which Pro mentioned, can require a variety of mental skills, as well as good vision and hand-eye coordination. However, one thing they do not require is physical activity, which is something Pro confirms. My opponent uses dictionary.com, which is not at all a problem in the context of this debate. However, if we dig deeper, we can find that Pro trunucated his definition of ""sport"". Normally, this is not a problem, and such an action can often be justified for the sake of brevity, but in this case, the full definition has more useful information to consider: ""an athletic activity requiring skill or physical prowess and often of a competitive nature, as racing, baseball, tennis, golf, bowling, wrestling, boxing, hunting, fishing, etc."" This definition provides not only criteria for inclusion, but a variety of examples, including racing, (maybe not auto racing, but this works just as well) which is considered a sport due to the physical stamina that is necessary on account of the moderate G-forces that riders experience, and golf, which requires physical skill to control the ball with a wide variety of clubs and in many circumstances. This can be expressed as Contention 2: Sports require physical activity. I could stop right here, but it might also be very useful to return to dictionary.com. If a sport is an ""athletic activity..."" the definition of ""athletic"" might be useful here: ""of or relating to athletes; involving the use of physical skills or capabilities, as strength, agility, or stamina"" These are our established criteria for a sport. Sports involve physical activities or capabilities. We could discuss why video games do not meet these criteria, but that is unnecessary, since Pro argues that they do not, and we are in agreement on this. To conclude, let me explain my stance on the other four activities my opponent mentioned: Curling, chess, competitive eating, and poker. Curling involves the physical abilities to release a stone with vital accuracy in speed and direction, and to manipulate its trajectory by shaving the ice with technique and accuracy. These are physical activities. Conclusion: Sport. Chess is said by some to be a sport because professional games, which can last for six or even seven hours, require stamina and endurance. However, chess has always been a primarily mental activity, and it can be enjoyed just as well at faster time controls, in which games can be done in under two hours. The physical aspect does not play a role in most contexts. Conclusion: Not a sport. Competitive eating involves at its core a physical skill, the ability to ingest large amounts of food in a short time. Conclusion: Sport. Poker, like chess, involves mental skill and decisions. One could argue that it also involves the ability to psychologically interpret opponents, and keep them from doing the same to you. However, this again is a mental activity, not a physical one. Conclusion: Not a sport. The word ""sport"" can mean a wide variety of things. It does not only involve brute force, as in American football or wrestling, or endurance, as in long-distance running or soccer, but more subtle physical abilities, as in archery or golf. Video games are not a sport, since they primarily involve mental and not physical abilities."	CON	221
221	Se81dfba3-Adbd3ce89	Video Games increase child violence	"We are talking about human kids, and not rats. You can't watch how a kid behaves, ask him if he plays violent games and come to the conclusion that games cause the aggressiveness. The proper studies, and you showed some, are done by using EEG, standing for Electroencephalogram. Electroencephalography (EEG) is the recording of electrical activity along the scalp. EEG measures voltage fluctuations resulting from ionic current flows within the neurons of the brain. This technique is used in cognitive science, cognitive psychology, and psychophysiological research. In simpler words, EEG tests show the activity of the brain. There are many studies that have been done, and i there are some above, and are easy to find too, that use EEG to see if kids that play violent video games have any negative effects. What EEG shows is more blood flow to certain parts of the brain. Scientists say there is no link, or the statistical evidence is insufficient. I would like you to tell me what you get from the following link:http://b-i.forbesimg.com... My opponents words: ""People's thinking is like so: Oh, tests (I'm talking about EEG experiment method) shown that the kids that play video games (violent ones actually) have increased blood flow in the part of the brain associated with copycat activities, therefore they become more aggressive and prone to copy actions from a violent video game."" is an invalid claim here as I am dealing with real experiments conducted by scientists. Scientists will tell you that there is no link between violence and playing video games. Humans work like this. From an early age almost every person understands at one point the difference between fiction and reality. Kids that play video games realize it is just fiction, and thus don't affect them in real life for the most part. If any kid gets aggressive through playing video games then you may want to get it checked out. I would like you to explain what you mean by violence. If you are the guys that think that school shootings are directly linked to kids' exposure to violent video games, i'm sorry, but this is 2013 and you should be informed better. Generally the whole video games cause violence thing is agenda driven. I won't say that playing video games that show violence will not change you at all, because it's all an experience. There are other more important and common things that connect to child violence, and often a kid will be living and growing under those circumstances, though media only refers to violent video games. Like peer pressure, poverty and the way kids grow up, and even more. Check it out before you bash video games: http://goodwin.drexel.edu... The graph that i showed you before (http://b-i.forbesimg.com...) is connected to the above argument. In america, crimes happen all the time, but countries like Germany, France and more have way more sells in video games, but still the crime level is pretty low. Can you tell why that happens? Kids growing up in poverty, under heavy stress and pressure by pears, schools and their own parents or even society, health problem, and the the how easy it is to find a gun in the US. i think that my opponents argument ""All in all I don't feel con has really attempted to try and make a strong case for his stance at all. He has merely just tried to refute my sources, with absolutely no back up, references, cited sources etc."" is not that true after all. My opponent said this: ""A complete and unfair manipulation of my argument. My opponent then made another complete fallacy by claiming that people from his school who play video games turn out to be less aggressive than the ones that do not play video games."" Saying that i misleaded his argument? Erm, do you even read the sources you post? They talk about video games causing all that stuff, including arguments with teachers. I think you are starting to realize the absurdity of your claims or you are just posting sources without reading them properly. My opponent has said multiple times that i haven't given him any sources, repeating the same argument over and over again. I think i can fix this really easily. Also, my opponent's sources have insufficient information, thus i don't accept them as evidence. Your second source of the irish times talks about researchers, and even a 12 year old can be a researcher, that say they have found a strong link between violence and video games, but they don't show the way the measured it. Probably the just polled some kids and made a conclusion. I will not accept this as valid proof. My opponent cleverly skipped my question: How do you know that kids that play violent kids weren't already a bit more violent than the rest of their peers, and so they were attracted to violent games. It's the same reason why boys are not attracted to girl's games, and so violent kids won't be attracted to games about sport or love stories. After some research, sources and media (based on a howstuffworks.com article) say that mister Dylan Klebold and mister Eric Harris that shot 20 people and killed 13 in a school shooting would play a lot of video games like Wolfenstein 3D and so and so forth. What the media is saying is that violent video games were the cause of their aggression. It's a rational statement, but quite wrong. These people did not see something on a video game, so they said they should try it out on Monday at school. These kids have been proven to be mentally unstable. If you are mentally unstable to that level, violent video games is just the drop that spilled the drink. (i hope i wrote this correctly). Let me give you a rational question. If you yourself, mister QandA, went on and played games like Call of Duty or GTA for a month, do you think you would be able to shoot a person with no second thoughts? Do you think that playing violent games would turn you into a mad on-frenzy serial killer? I don't think so. And if that was the case, thousands of school shootings will take place every week all around the world. And if we didn't stop violent video games, in a couple of years everyone would be walking on the streets with an AK-47 mowing down people. It's not gonna happen and you know it. Conclusions are drawn because of other causes of violence. Check out my link above that talks about the real main reasons kids become violent. What your studies won't show is if those kids didn't have any of those problems, and just played video games. If there is an official study, by an official scientist (and not researcher) that would make a study on kids that do not suffer from any of those problems and just played video games, and it would be proven that indeed violent video games cause aggression, i would step back and call it a victory for you. Until you find for me a proper science research, i won't accept it, as i know it's agenda driven and covered by tons of other reasons that increase child violence. Thank you for round 2."	CON	222
222	Sc4008d1a-A6a4b31f2	Violent Video Games Shouldn't Be Banned	"Science has come to a general consensus that violent TV does have an effect on kids' behavior. video games have additional reasons for concern, leading psychologists to believe that it is worse than TV. 1) video games are even more likely to affect people's behavior than TV because they're immersive. People don't just watch video games; they interact with them. 2) The games are also repetitive 3) based on a rewards system. Repetition and rewards are primary components of classical conditioning, a proved psychological concept in which behavioral learning takes place as a result of rewarding (or punishing) particular behaviors. The brains of children and teens are still developing, & are thus even more susceptible to this type of ""training."" THE EVIDENCE: A 2001 study reported in the journal ""Psychological Science"" ( the highest ranked empirical journal in psychology) found that: ""Children who play violent video games experience an increase in physiological signs of aggression.""[1] In 2006 at the Indiana University School of Medicine researchers found that kids who played violent game showed increased activity in the amygdala, which stimulates emotions, and decreased activity in the prefrontal lobe, which regulates inhibition, self-control and concentration. [2] The 2008 study Grand Theft Childhood reported that 60% of middle school boys that played at least one Mature-rated game hit or beat up someone, compared to 39% of boys that did not play Mature-rated games.[3] In March 2011 A study published in the afore mentioned ""Psychological Science"" found that: ""playing violent video games is associated with denying humanness to other people and Violent Video Games Increase Aggressive Behavior.""[4] The APA: The (APA), is the largest scientific and professional organization representing psychology in the United States and is the world's largest association of psychologists. The following are from the APA: Article: ""Video Games and Aggressive Thoughts, Feelings, and Behavior in the Laboratory and in Life,"" Craig A. Anderson, Ph.D., Iowa State University of Science and Technology and Karen E. Dill, Ph.D., Lenoir-Rhyne College: Violent Video Games can Increase Aggression: ""...Video games may be more harmful than violent television and movies because of the interactive nature of the games. Playing violent video games increase a person's aggressive thoughts, feelings and behavior both in laboratory settings and in actual life. violent video games may be more harmful than violent television and movies because they are interactive, very engrossing and require the player to identify with the aggressor... ...Violent video games provide a forum for learning and practicing aggressive solutions to conflict situations,"" said Dr. Anderson. ""In the short run, playing a violent video game appears to affect aggression by priming aggressive thoughts. Longer-term effects are likely to be longer lasting as well, as the player learns and practices new aggression-related scripts that can become more and more accessible for use when real-life conflict situations arise... ...One major concern is the active nature of the learning environment of the video game,"" say the authors. ""This medium is potentially more dangerous than exposure to violent television and movies, which are known to have substantial effects on aggression and violence...""[5] ""Two studies examined violent video game effects on aggression-related variables. Study 1 found that real-life violent video game play was positively related to aggressive behavior and delinquency... Academic achievement was negatively related to overall amount of time spent playing video games. In Study 2, laboratory exposure to a graphically violent video game increased aggressive thoughts and behavior. The results from both studies are consistent with the General Affective Aggression Model, which predicts that exposure to violent video games will increase aggressive behavior in both the short term (e.g., laboratory aggression) and the long term (e.g., delinquency)... ...Violent video games provide a forum for learning and practicing aggressive solutions to conflict situations. The effect of violent video games appears to be cognitive in nature. In the short term, playing a violent video game appears to affect aggression by priming aggressive thoughts. Longer-term effects are likely to be longer lasting as well, as the player learns and practices new aggression-related scripts that become more and more accessible for use when real-life conflict situations arise. If repeated exposure to violent video games does indeed lead to the creation and heightened accessibility of a variety of aggressive knowledge structures, thus effectively altering the person's basic personality structure, the consequent changes in everyday social interactions may also lead to consistent increases in aggressive affect. The active nature of the learning environment of the video game."" [6] ""Research shows playing violent video games increases aggressive behavior and decreases helpful behavior..."" [7] From APA's Resolution on Violence in Video Games and Interactive Media: ""...Exposure to violent media increases feelings of hostility, thoughts about aggression... Comprehensive analysis of violent interactive video game research suggests such exposure a.) increases aggressive behavior, b.) increases aggressive thoughts, c.) increases angry feelings, d.) decreases helpful behavior, and, e.) increases physiological arousal (Anderson, C.A., 2002b; Anderson, C.A., Carnagey, N. L., Flanagan, M., Benjamin, A. J., Eubanks, J., Valentine, J. C., 2004; Anderson, C.A., & Dill, K. E., 2000; Bushman, B.J., & Anderson, C.A., 2002; Gentile, D. A., Lynch, P. J., Linder, J. R., & Walsh, D. A., 2004). Studies further suggest that sexualized violence in the media has been linked to increases in violence towards women, rape myth acceptance and anti-women attitudes. The characteristics of violence in interactive video games appear to have similar detrimental effects as viewing television violence; however based upon learning theory (Bandura, 1977; Berkowitz, 1993), the practice, repetition, and rewards for acts of violence may be more conducive to increasing aggressive behavior among children and youth than passively watching violence on TV and in films (Carll, E. K., 1999a). With With the development of more sophisticated interactive media, such as virtual reality, the implications for violent content are of further concern, due to the intensification of more realistic experiences, and may also be more conducive to increasing aggressive behavior than passively watching violence on TV and in films (Calvert, S. L., Jordan, A. B., Cocking, R. R. (Ed.) 2002; Carll, E. K., 2003; Turkle, S., 2002); and studies further suggest that videogames influence the learning processes in many ways more than in passively observing TV: a.) requiring identification of the participant with a violent character while playing video games, b.) actively participating increases learning, c.) rehearsing entire behavioral sequences rather than only a part of the sequence, facilitates learning, and d.) repetition increases learning (Anderson, C.A., 2002b; Anderson, C.A., Carnagey, N. L., Flanagan, M., Benjamin, A. J., Eubanks, J., Valentine, J. C., 2004; Anderson, C.A. & Dill, K. E., 2000)..."" [8] [1] http://www.apa.org... [2] http://www.soc.iastate.edu... [3] http://repository.upenn.edu... [4] http://www.academia.edu... [5] http://www.apa.org... [6] http://www.psychology.iastate.edu... [7] http://www.apa.org... [8] http://www.apa.org..."	CON	223
223	Sca66140c-Af1fa9870	should video games be banned	video games can teach kid the basic thing.	CON	224
224	S5b6b29c-A3c9fb809	Violent Video Games	"This is my first debate, just a side note. I have played video games since I was very little. Gaming has become a passion of mine and I want to follow that career path. Violent games I believe are not a direct source to violence in society. First from a personal note, I have had many hardships growing up and being raised and have played violent video games throughout my lifetime. In no way has video games swayed me towards violence against anyone or anything in real life. I understand not everything has my mindset. So a couple of my points are 1- Parenting. I believe parenting is a primary source to violence. In younger years of a child's life it is up to parents to decide whether or not a child or adolescent should be playing violent video games, but whether or not that actually happens, well no one actually has control over an individual""s parenting. Also family violence such as drug abuse, mental, and physical abuse, are the main factors to violence. 2- Reality vs. Fantasy. Some may not be able to differentiate reality from fantasy. To me, those people are more prone to violence without the aid of gaming. Many say violence in games cause people to act more violently, which in reality, if you think about it, how much of the violence in games is actually capable of being performed in real life? Infamous, for example, is about a man who can control electricity. How many people do you know can control electricity and shoot electric bolts from their hands? FPS (First Person Shooters) such as the Call of Duty or Medal of Honor series, have gun violence. Sure that is pretty realistic, but in some FPS you can't even cook a grenade, which is, in my opinion, very unrealistic. Also those particular series have a more historic and educational story line to them. The Crysis series, a FPS, involves aliens and abilities such as invisibility and suit upgrades. Sure you aim down a sight to shoot either human or alien, but still quite unrealistic. MOST people, I'm not saying all, can tell the difference from reality and fiction. I hope i have made my points clear, if not, please say so so I may go into more detail."	PRO	225
225	S6812fbe6-Aec19b14a	Video Games are an art form.	"I'll find one of my friends with Bioshock and borrow, thanks for the suggestion. A: All video games have goals In addition to all of the previous arguments for this, I like your new argument about new video games with choice manipulation. I can think of one big example that I have experienced, Knights of the Old Republic 2: The Sith Lords. In the game, one decision can change the rest of the game's storyline, which is innovative and very intresting. Unfortunatley, there are still decisions created by the game creators, in the case LucasArts. LucasArts is making you conform to a set way of thinking, a set way of interpreting the game. Standerd art forms allow the observer to decide how to interpret it, and though choice manipulation is much more of an art form than other video gameplays, it is still not a form of art. B: Deliberation Once again, I found your argument very creative. The most birds with one stone, amusing. But that still isn't a video game, thats a regular game. The definition of a video game as provided by Merriam-Webster is an electronic game played by means of images on a video. Electronic games can't happen randomly, they have to be man-made. Also, simply because only one person can enjoy doesn't discout a memory as an art form. Art can still be enjoyable if only one person could observe it. If the entire world was deaf, and only you could hear things, would music stop being an art form? http://www.merriam-webster.com... C: Creators of Art I have yet to see a book that, in the sense of a form of art, allowed the reader to make major decisions. I have seen 50 cent flip books that allow the reader to go on a 'quest' and make decisons for themselves by flipping to different pages, but these books are probably not considered art forms. Same thing applies to interactive movies. And though there might be many meanings in a game, the game still has a standard set of goals that the gamer must achieve, and the creators of the game are in essence forcing the gamers to conform to the set of goals. The goals of a video game do not allow the gamer to interpret it the way he or she pleases. Instead, the gamer must achieve a certain set of goals. The interpretation in a video game only goes as far as how the gamer views the game, not on how the outcome happens. And as for the kid/ college book and newb/elite gamer, though these may be considered analogies, these only perfectly correlate to each other if gaming is considered an art form, which this debate is all about. Also, movies are not all the time taken as a whole. For example, many movie soundtracks are given an award for the composer and the quality of the music, and not the movie as a whole. In the gaming world, this never happens. Soundtracks in relation to gaming always stick with the game. Thank you for clarifying your point. I understand what you were trying to say, but though standard art forms have less appreciated sides to them, they still have the characteristics of being art, while video games do not. At the beginning of this debate, I sought to define the word ""art"" as to further clarify this debate. Unfortunaley, I found many sources that had contradicting definitions. Also, many say that art cannot be defined, and though my opponent and I were able to establish what we consider art, it still the leaves the definition up in the air. Below I have listed a source that discusses how art cannot be defined. Voters, I urge you not to vote on anyone else's definiton of art, only vote on what my opponent and I have established as the definition of art through our arguments. http://www.smashingmagazine.com... In conclusion, I strongly believe that video games are not an art form for all the reasons listed."	CON	226
226	S2f5f5fc2-A46f7b5fd	Video Games Cause Bad Behavior	"Thanks again to my opponent for this challenge. My opponent (Con) Posted: ""Now you say games have been a root cause in our society? I have a problem with this and stop me if this is getting out of the way to much, let's go back 40 years ago. I could give many reasons why kids are being rude or even killing people and also how adults more so are killing people or even just stealing things and I don't think Mario or any game made back them showed violence to a degree that is today so bad behavior is just something this society faces. "" Yes sir, I do need to stop you there. You see, when I said that violent video games have been at the root of problems in our society, I never meant for anyone to take that as ""video games are at the root of ALL of the problems in our society."" There are an increasing number of incidence, however where video games and gaming addictions HAVE been at the root cause of violent behavior. Remember, you claim in this debate is that ""Video Games do NOT cause Bad Behavior."" It only takes one incident to prove your claim wrong (incorrect). My opponent (Con) has put himself into a indefensible position. To prove a negative in a debate is much more of a daunting task than is proving a positive. The claim that video games do not cause bad behavior should be easily destroyed by any one of the news stories that I linked to in the search earlier. And there were many. [1] _______________________________________________ My opponent continued; ""People today need to learn more morals and be smart enough to tell right from wrong. This goes with your advertisements. I just watch the Super Bowl advertisements because they are funny, I mean did you see the Doritos Ninja, that was hilarious. Everyone hates commercials unless they are for our favorite things. I am more inclined to watch a commercial about a game than to watch one about a Swiffer Sweeper, it all deals to personal preference. I mean commercials are good but some, as we know about Black Friday, actually get people killed or injured for no good reason, so is it safe to say commercials cause BAD BEHAVIOR, if it is Black Friday I say a big YES."" Con seems to have completely missed the analogy I made between TV commercials and video games. Advertisers spend MILLIONS of dollars on TV commercials because they WORK. They make people go out and BUY things they might not buy otherwise. To say that a 30 second commercial has a great enough impact on peoples behavior as to make the investment worthwhile buy affecting the buying choices by so many with so little exposure..... but that day in and day out INTERACTIVE exposure to the violence of video games has ""NO cause of bad behavior"" at all is ludicrous. It is especially so, given the many stories we already have where video games HAVE been a factor in the violence. My opponent makes several points in his arguments that it is not a one size fits all aspect that we are debating here. It is unfair to paint everything with the same brush; and I agree. Con adds (and wiselyso) that there are likely other causes at the root of these incidents as well but we don't live in a vacuum. If video games lead to bad behavior in any way and in any situation, you have no choice but to vote ""pro"" in acknowledgement of the fact that they do. This debate was never about whether or not video games are the ONLY factor. If video games are only one cause of bad behavior among many, video games are still a cause. And that's what we are debating. Thanks again to my opponent. Please vote Pro! [1] http://www.bing.com..."	PRO	227
227	Sf0a808a4-Abc160bbf	Video-Games Are Beneficial Towards Children	"I agree that video games are entertaining and fun. And as far my first argument, I take back what I said. Some video games are beneficial. Minecraft is a fun, creative stimulating video game. But it isn't real life. You aren't interacting with YOUR environment. You aren't moving things around and that makes all of the difference. You can improve your mind, but what's better? Designing a building or creating a model scale version? You can say ""oh well kids are never going to do that"" or ""kids will never read unless they are forced to"". But that's the problem. And video games aren't helping, they create a way out. As for ""developing literature skills"" maybe when your are a toddler it helps. But as your grow older you realize that reading is so much more than reading. Video games that have words don't have any figurative language, something that takes up over 50% of the English, or any other language. And as for it being easier to read, you can buy e-books that can enlarge the text. And on paper, the words don't ever appear or leave! Video games are for entertainment. Any benefits are just a side effect."	CON	228
228	S8a9f614c-A8c607807	should violent video games be banned.	"Pro: Intro: Blood and gore intense violence, strong language, strong sexual content, and use of drugs. These are the words that you will see on every M-Rated Violent Video Game. The people who rated these games are not lying. The words speak for themselves. In this Debate, I will prove that the bad effects of video gaming outweigh the so called ""fun"" of video gaming. For these reasons and more, I strongly affirm the resolution which states: that Resolved: Violent video games should be banned. Contention #1: Brain Change A new study, conducted at Indiana University School of Society and presented at the congress of the Society of Radiology in Chicago found the first hard evidence of the effects of video games using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Playing violent video games for only one week can change the brain in regions associated with cognitive function and emotional control, the study found. A volunteer group of 22 young men aged between 18 and 29 years with low past exposure to video games were asked to play Call of Duty games for 10 hours a week for one week and to avoid playing at all the following week. A second volunteer group didn't play a violent video game at all. Each group was performed a test that quizzed their emotional and functional parts of the brain After only one week, those volunteers who played violent video games showed less activation in the area of the brain that control emotion and aggression. What this basically means: The test speaks for itself, playing video games effects how people think and tares apart their emotional and logical sides of their brains and can only lead to more harm than good. Contention #2: Why It's Particularly Bad for Young Brains Little kids have a hard time distinguishing the line between the real-world and the gaming world, as young minds are still forming what is real and what is make-believe. To kids, these virtual experiences feel very real, not only because the graphics today are so amazing, but because they are taking on a first-person role in the killing process. Rather than just watching a rated-R violent movie, when kids play a game, they are one of the main characters inside the adventure. The entire experience becomes a more meaningful -- and deadly -- in their brains, which are forming new connections What this basically means: Smaller children are affected the worst by video games because they cannot see the line between the real world and the gaming world. These kind of problems can lead to school attacks. An excellent example of such is the Connecticut school shooting. Adam Lanza was an American teenager who killed 26 innocent people during a school shooting. Adam went to the Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut on Dec. 14 and shot dead 20 children and 6 adults, including the school principal. He also killed his mother, Nancy Lanza, before he went to the school. He then killed himself, and the entire community has been left reeling in the wake of the horrific massacre. This is all because of video games. Adam was obsessed with Call of Duty, a very popular M-rated video game, and other extremely video games. Sources: http://www.dailymail.co.uk... http://www.africa-news.eu... \ http://parentables.howstuffworks.com... http://videogames.procon.org..."	PRO	229
229	S8294b441-A6b546449	Video Games Cause Violence	"Video Games DO cause violence. The violent nature of our generations of current games brainwash peoples minds into thinking it's, ""Just a game."" Or, ""It's not bad."" Little do they know it makes them into killers."	PRO	230
230	S8294b441-Ae06db79c	Video Games Cause Violence	"To say that EVERY person who plays video games turns into a killer is not true. What a vast majority of people are saying is that games that require the player to kill or to injure another being or animal, may cause the person the become ""Interested"" in harming others."	PRO	231
231	Sf0a808a4-A9df6011c	Video-Games Are Beneficial Towards Children	While video games have negative side effects (as all things do), the benefits certainly outweigh the costs. Yes, video games are not realistic as they are designed to be entertaining and fun. If they were realistic, they would be called virtual simulators, which are extremely beneficial and are used by surgeons and soldiers respectively as modern training tactics (not all use it as it is fairly new). They may not be as beneficial as exercising, but video games were never meant to let people exercise, despite the numerous (failed) attempts at doing so such as the Nintendo Wii, PlayStation Move, Kinect, and Arcade Fitness Games. Lego's? What does that have to do with gaming? Anyways, there's a game called Minecraft, and you may want to look into that if you think Lego is more beneficial than video games. As with socializing, I completely agree that it is taking away talking face to face. Let's be honest, we all don't want to listen to those little kids and hardcore fanboys screaming and raging through our headsets just because they were emotionally offended by our opinions, right? People like them are what ruins the reputation of gaming. Yes, reading should be the basic foundation of developing literature skills, but again, let's be honest, no kid (except for parents who force them to) is going to read books on their spare time. Also, text in video games are much bigger and easier to see, allowing the readers to read it much easier as it also appears on-screen very slowly! One more thing before I am done my rebuttal, you contradicted yourself when you said that video games are not beneficial by saying the opposite at the end of your argument. I understand that you won't learn much when compared to other activities, but you have to understand that video games are entertainment devices, not virtual simulators meant to specifically be very beneficial to us.	PRO	232
232	Sc958dc5a-A1547c7e6	Violent video games should NOT be banned	According to a few people, violent video games should be banned. I am against them. Violent video games would be all of them. Mario... Zelda... Call of Duty... Pokemon. I stand that instead of banning violent video games, ban mental patients and kids (younger then the M rating).	PRO	233
233	Sf0a808a4-A7ac7c659	Video-Games Are Beneficial Towards Children	"Video Games are not beneficial. Their benefits are meager compared with playing with Lego's, exercising and actually talking face to face, which video games and phones are taking away. As for ""Increased literature skills"", should't reading be the backbone of that? Video Games are fun and enjoyable, but the benefits are limited when compared to many many other activities."	CON	234
234	Sd645ce1a-Aa2baadba	video games help	"Video games are therapeutic for children with chronic illnesses The University of Utah released a study last year that examined the effects of regular gaming on children diagnosed with illnesses like autism, depression, and Parkinson's disease. Kids who played certain games, including one designed just for the study, showed signs of improvement in ""resilience, empowerment, and a 'fighting spirit.'"" Researchers believe the games' ability to act on ""neuronal mechanisms that activate positive emotions and the reward system"" helped improve kids' demeanors as they faced the daily challenges of their illnesses."	PRO	235
235	S74ad1395-A4f6b13b5	Why video games are good for you.	I thank my oponnent for responding. Video games have many positive impacts on people, for one they can be inspired to do good things. Not all video games are about killing people. There are many more fun and interactive games for children and adults. Think about it.	PRO	236
236	S3b5955b2-Ad4cb4018	video games are a waste of time and money	"ok 1st im commenting on your first argument ok maybe i have better things to do than play video games but curing cancer a bit far fectched ""lets not play video games lets cure cancer"" 2nd video games arent a waste of money they are a luxury would you call eating out a waste of money its not a waste of money its a luxury"	CON	237
237	Se6270ff-A72cf826b	Video Games do not Cause Violence	"Do video games cause violence? In a simple answer, yes. In the past 15 years, the number of gamers has gone up drastically due to both increased gaming quality and the new notions of multiplayer games, such as MMO (Massively Multiplayer Online) games and simple 'LAN' games which allow you to play with a friend. Allow me to quote a news article. ""On April 20, 1999, two seniors walked into their Colorado high school carrying assault rifles, and they opened fire. They shot dozens of people, killing 12 students and one teacher, and the nation was floored. School shootings had happened before, but this was a new scope of carnage, and in the ensuing search for answers it came out the shooters had spent a lot of time playing violent video games."" I'm sure everyone is aware that the PG rating on First Person Shooter games, or pretty much any game that contains violence or sex is literally just ink. Do people really think that kids underage pay attention to those ratings? Get with the modern world. Though it may be unfortunate, it's common knowledge that children participate in over 18 activities including not limited to these video games. It was only last year that an 8 year old shot and killed his caretaker (87 years old) after playing a particularly violent video game. It's people like that little boy who are most vulnerable to influence from video games and from adults who encourage that sort of behavior that are often encountered online. The real reason these games cause violence is because they are given to people who are sometimes mentally unhinged, and also to small children who can easily pirate them from the web. The facts state that these games are mentally damaging to many people. But the biggest problem of all lies in the age rating, because it means nothing. In fact, I'd be willing to bet children want to play those games more, to feel like a proper adult. Winning in a game is a childish notion of victory and defeat is the same. Those notions, however, have killed people in the past. That is proof enough that the games cause violence."	CON	238
238	Se20430a8-A6f744d42	Video games are not bad	There is nothing wrong with playing video games. It is just an innocent hobby, and even an occupation for some people. Video game systems, such as the Wii, have actually helped people in Rehab! How can anyone say they are bad?	PRO	239
239	Sf0a808a4-A464cf38d	Video-Games Are Beneficial Towards Children	Okay, as for reading skills, video games can be a supplement. I know of plenty educational video games for toddlers that can help with reading. But I still don't believe Minecraft is as beneficial as something similar to Lego's. You can decide the colour shade of Lego's there are a lot of them. As for texture, what texture is there in Minecraft? And some lego's do have different textures. And moving the character? Is pressing w or a or s or d really that beneficial? And deciding what resources you need? There's critical thinking there sure, but many many other things that are not addictive can help with that, like puzzles or crosswords. And complex language? No, video games are NOTHING compared to books. I taught myself how to read and I know plenty of people who read books. Books vs Video Games? No contest.	CON	240
240	Sa808513e-A6661bafe	Violent video games should be banned	"As per the rules of the debate, I will use this round for presenting my opening arguments and nothing more. I. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights As humans, we have the inherent freedom and right to pursue that which leads to the good life. As we all know, the ""good life"" in itself is purely subjective, thus what might be the good life for one person, might not be the good life for another. However, within this inherent freedom to pursue such things, if something is brought into question, we must weigh the positive and negative impact that the object or thing in question brings with it. If we see that, on balance, something proves to be a net good, then there is no reason for such a thing or object to be banned from use. In this case, I do not believe that violent video games are truly a net negative which require the complete removal of it from our lives in the form of a ban. I was going to utilize the U.S. Constitution, but judged from Pro's first round that this debate will include the world as a whole (at-least countries under western influence), rather than the values of just one nation. Thus I will instead utilize The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which is a declaration adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 10 December 1948 at the Palais de Chaillot, Paris. The Declaration arose directly from the experience of the Second World War and represents the first global expression of rights to which all human beings are inherently entitled. [1] The reason I am utilizing this declaration is because within it there are several articles which serve to guarantee the freedoms of each and every living person in our world today. For this debate specifically, there are several articles which serve to strengthen my main points. For instance: Article 1. All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood. This opening article reflects the fact that we, as humans, have the responsibility to act accordingly to one another, and are free in our rights to pursue such things as the good life. This also reflects the fact that as free humans, it is us who are responsible for the harms brought on our fellow humans, not the object in question, but rather the human being using or influenced by the object. This reminds me of the saying, ""it's not guns who kill people, but rather the people who use the guns,"" and it's true, guns don't pull their own triggers, it's the humans using the guns who pull the triggers. I feel like the same can be applied for video games, clearly there are cases where video games influence people, however, we must remember that it is the humans themselves who carry out such actions, not the games themselves. Article 19. Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; this right includes freedom to hold opinions without interference and to seek, receive and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers. This article is key, because it touches on exactly what my opponent seeks to ban: the freedom to seek, receive and impart information through any media. Obviously violent video games are a form of media, and given that we have a universal right to receive information through such media, it stands to be argued that my opponent seeks to take away a fundamental right we have set forth for one another. Unless there is a net harm being caused, I see no valid reason for such a right to be stripped from us. Article 24. Everyone has the right to rest and leisure, including reasonable limitation of working hours and periodic holidays with pay. This is another key article because it reflects our right to periods of rest and leisure. As a working guy myself, I hold this article in the highest regard, because when I'm not working, and on my leisure time, I'm playing video games such as GTA 5. It provides entertainment and is a means for me to unload the usual stresses of everyday life. If I had that inherent right taken from me in the form of a ban, it'd be a clear violation of my rights to rest and leisure. Article 27. (1) Everyone has the right freely to participate in the cultural life of the community, to enjoy the arts and to share in scientific advancement and its benefits. This should go without say, but violent video games are indeed a part of the cultural life of our community, video games in themselves are the results of scientific advancements in the form of computer software engineering. I clearly have the right to freely participate in such things, as shown in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. **It should now be clear to both the audience and my opposition that I have the inherent rights and protections given under the Universal Declaration of Human Rights to partake in and play video games, whether they are violent or not.** A ban on violent video games is nothing less than a complete dismissal of the inherent rights we have as human beings. [2] II. There are controls on the accessibility of violent video games Whenever purchasing a new video game, there is always a rating on the game box or distributors websites. The Entertainment Software Rating Board (ESRB) ratings provide guidance about video games and apps so that consumers, especially parents, can make informed choices about the ones they deem suitable for their family. [3] In video game stores, if an ""M"" rated game is being purchased, the cashier has a legal obligation to ID the purchaser to ensure that they are of the correct age for purchase, otherwise, they will not be able to buy the game for personal usage. This is in line with current legal operations in regards to video games. It's already a given that violent video games are only suitable for select audiences/players. Our current society has deemed it acceptable for people of the age 18+ to be exposed to such things as violent video games. We are given the responsibility to handle the information within such media responsibly and accordingly with respect to current laws against violence amongst one another. If a minor is irresponsibly exposed to such things, then that is a failure on the part of their legal guardian, not the game itself. The same could be said for anything in life that has age-restrictions placed on it. It's not the games fault that the information within it was mis-used, but rather the agent who allowed for such misuse in the first place. Thus, when we hear about cases where someone who partook in acts of violence played a certain video game, we cannot reasonably blame the game itself, as it was the person who chose to carry out those actions who is rightfully at fault. As I mentioned earlier, I play GTA 5 all the time, but I'm not going around carrying out massive shooting-sprees or car-jacking people. The responsibility falls on the individual, and we have current restrictions which serve to protect individuals who are not yet at the appropriate age to reasonably handle the information presented within violent video games. I see no reason to ban such things when ultimately it is up to the distributors and purchasers to act within reason when partaking in such things. A ban would only serve to harm those who are responsible enough to handle such things. III. Punishing the many, for the sins of the few Whenever there are cases of violent outbreaks and it's found that the agent of such actions played violent video games, it's all too easy to say ""oh, let's ban the things that the violent person did."" However, this completely ignores the big picture. Let's take GTA5 for instance, as of 31 December 2014, the game has shipped 45 million copies to retailers. So, we can assume that around 45 million people have played the game since its release. Now, how many cases of violence has been associated with the game? I'll go way out there and say that there have been 1,000 cases. In reality there hasn't been nearly that much, more like 20-100, but let's assume that's the number. If so, then only 0.000022% of GTA5 players have turned violent in real life. There is no justifiable reason to punish the other 99.9978% of players who don't turn violent by banning the game. This can be applied to any violent game as long as we truly consider the numbers. This entire time I've been arguing that unless these games are shown to be a net negative, there is no justifiable reason to ban them. With these numbers now given, it's clear that the game is not only not a net negative, but furthermore that only a tiny, minuscule fraction of the players actually carry out such violence in real life. Why on earth should we punish the many, for the sins of the few? In this case the few being only 0.000022% of the population. IV. Avoiding the root cause This is personal, and pisses me off. Everytime there is a school shooting we try to ban guns, and blame the guns, instead of looking at the individuals mental history and finding the true cause of such violent tendencies. How would banning a game have stopped a mentally-disturbed individual? Would there not just be something else that would set them off? The same goes for video games. Blaming a video game for a shooting or other violent outbreak is absurd, because clearly there are other factors at play. By automatically putting video games in the cross-hairs, we are robbing ourselves of the chance to look deeper into the matter and finding a true means to helping and avoiding such things in the future on the individual level. Isn't it about time we stop looking at the easiest solutions and start fighting the true causes at their roots? I believe it is, and the first step in doing so is avoiding an unjustified ban which violates our inherent rights and misses the true cause. Sources [1] http://www.un.org... [2] http://www.un.org... [3] http://www.esrb.org..."	CON	241
241	Se55cb0cf-A4cd1e895	Video Games Are Art	"Listen here Art is defined by Merriam Webster as ""skill acquired by experience, study, or observation"" Someone that makes video games has a study for coding, computers, and ideas. They observe their surroundings by using real life scenarios to display messages and characters. The coder or developer had a purpose in putting characters in the game, while artists have a purpose in putting objects or people in their painting. Obviously, they observed the surroundings and have a general idea of idea of life. They used observation to add key scenes in the plot. They used observation to fix bugs, add new characters, look at critiques, and add new game modes, etc. An argument against this would be invalid because they are using observation to code.. and code is a skill which leads to skill Skill is known as being good at a certain thing that maybe other are not... Coding takes a skill in computers and in coding to program. They need a skill to fix bugs and add new patches to improve a game, which is harder than making a painting because everyone will keep wanting and if they don't deliver, it can lead to a bad rep and people not wanting to buy a game. Art is the opposite, you can make art people do not like and they cannot do anything as the piece is set and stone. Artists tend not to listen, for example Michelangelo was told not sculpt the privates in David statue. he did it anyways because he didn't care You can not pick up a coding manual in one day, and make a hit game. You need experience. Art and video games are the same way. Need experience in having art design, need experience for coding In conclusion...the definition I got from Merriam Webster is what art is defined as and the best definition. I answered the definition and proved my point in all. Video Games and classic art are the same thing. Video games meet all the requirements from art."	PRO	242
242	Sd645cdfb-Af48d0969	video games help	"I cannot but agree that SOME video games really do improve some of these skills. But these are obviously not the overly popular video games. Your found research is solid, so I'll try to argument why the video games most people play are not having these benefits. Call Of Duty series have an overly popular online mode, which is known to come with alot of stress. This game is easily the most-bought game yearly. In these games, children obviously learn alot less than they could elsewhere. While I have no research to contradict what you say, I think everyone knows that the best games are challenging and obviously aren't much of a ""relief"" from stress. The fast-paced action in CoD rather provides the gamer with alot of frustration everytime he is killed, obviously quite alot of times daily. Emotionally, you could only see it as a break from work. Not some kind of therapy that would make you suddenly feel better, because just like watching a movie, the only thing it does is make you focus on something else. That is, ofcourse, the distraction you spoke of. But is it the best way to distract someone from pain? I believe that here, gaming is only good for those exceptional cases that really need aid like the ones with diseases you named before. This does not prove that video game is good for common, healthy people. It proves that they are useful medically, but they don't provide ""help"" for healthy people. Then, you said that the fast-paced action is good for visual capabilities. Numerous amounts of friends that i have, end up crying if they play too much. You focus on a limited area, and your eyeballs barely move. That can't be good, can it? But again, only for people who already have medical problems. Another argument you gave for vision improvement, was that facial recognition went better etc. But is that really a necessary thing? I wouldn't count this as a big advantage when seeing the disadvantages. Decision-making skills: can't deny it, but in this case, video games only make your reaction time faster rather than thinking more clear. In real life, most decisions don't have to be made in an instant. Then, you talk about happiness. without doubt, video games are one of the most fun inventions ever. I can't argue here. Lastly, you speak of research why gaming improves mental abilities. The research clearly states that ANYTHING requiring mental energy does that, though. So, there must be alternatives. - personal addition I notice that you simply copy and paste researches you have found on the internet. They clearly are articles in favor of gaming, but not entirely objective. When talking about health, the cons should be mentioned, that occur to ALL people: their backs are bent, in a bad position; they sit still for hours, and ofcourse, they barely do any sport."	CON	243
243	Secdfb6e3-A24fbce04	Video Games are a form of art.	"In Pro's final round, he provides two understandings of what 'art' is and why we should believe that video games should be classified as them. The problem is, they are mutually exclusive and so Pro's position is inconsistent. Let's look at these two definitions; 1) Art is completely subjective. Whether or not something is art depends not on some criterion that must be met, but is relative to the observer. In Pro's own words ""An artist determines what is art for he alone can understand why it is considered art to him"" - the key word to recognise here is 'determines'. The artist does not recognise that something is art because it possesses qualities that match up to a criterion; whether it is art is relative to him. So, what's the problem? The problem is that given this definition of art it is impossible, in principle, for Pro to prove that the resolution is true. If I believe video games are not art and he believes video games are art there is no way way of determining which of us is right - the resolution is not stating any true fact about video games. The resolution is like ""marmite is tasty"" - it is not true or false, but is relative to the taster (observer). Pro illustrates the point perfectly ""What one person sees a work of art, another sees as nothing artistic at all"" 2) Art involves ""Shapes, colors, sounds, movements, etc."" - this is completely new understanding of art introduced in the last round and should be rejected on that basis. In addition, it provides a criterion for something to meet to be art and thus contradicts definition 1). Pro gives the example of Final Fantasy XIII and says why he considers it to be a work of art - he sees it as beautiful amongst other positive characteristics. However, we then have to accept that art not only includes those elements included in the definition but that they are used in skilled ways that excite the observer's senses, intellect or emotions. Pro's definition is incomplete"	CON	244
244	S8769b9cf-Ade445619	Violent Video games cause desensitization	"Where is the article from the Journal of the American Medical Association? Also even if the article does exist somewhere the claim is that television technology would hypothetically bring more deaths. The article is from 1993 before reasonable video games existed. Soldiers in the army do not play violent video games to get over killing. Soldiers play violent video games before they become soldiers and will continue to play after. There is no proof or support saying that Soldiers play video games for the reason of getting over killing. The website put as support is not a valid source. It doesn't support any of its claims with valid sources. ""Studies were done"" isn't valid support for your argument."	CON	245
245	Se20430a8-A7291c4db	Video games are not bad	Video games do not always contribute to obesity. Playing for about 2 hours a day isn't going to make you obese. Also, in the Wii's case, you actually move. Video games don't trigger a psychopath. They are actually used as a way for friends to communicate, and share time together. They also raise hand-eye co-ordination. To extend that, here is an example. I have a cousin in California I rarely see. We both have Xbox 360's, and Halo 3. Just recently, we have often played together. Halo is fun for the both of us, and is a common hobby. Along with that, Xbox Live allows us to talk, just as we are next to each other. We ask each other how things are going, how school is, and even almost plan a trip for him to see me! This communication creates fun, and linking, while not having to pay for the long distance phone bills. Now, to answer the second argument, it IS a needed simulation. Many things in video games are impossible, or very hard to do in real life. SO, this allows you to do those things! Also, for those things simple to do, such as ride a bike, or play baseball, video games can be used to do those things, while it is winter, or you are sick. As I stated in my first speech, the Wii is used in Rehab. This helps people get the feeling of being free, and relieves pain. Also, the probability of someone going out, and killing someone just because they play Halo, or another shooter is very low. Millions play Halo every day, minute, heck every SECOND, and they aren't killers. We would all be dead if every gamer was a killer!	PRO	246
246	S8db68a9b-Ae14d5a77	Video games encourage violent behavior	"Most of the videos are most likely staged, as were the first two[1][2]. Next, ""Flashing light cause migraines, and migraines come from stress."" Only problem is, yes, Flashing lights can cause migraines, but stress is a trigger for migraines, and does not mean that you are always 100% stressed when you have a migraine after playing video games. It's worth noting that studies conducted by the UK say that it's not video games that cause the violence or misbehavior, but screen exposure. Watching more than three hours of TV a day at the age of five lead to a small increase in behavioural problems in children between the ages of five and seven. Also a much lower number of children spent as long playing video games as they did watching television[3]. Keep in mind that video games are not the only source of violence in the media, as television and movies also have their own surplus of violence. Other studies claim that violence is a biological trait, has something to do with led exposure, etc. etc.[4] There are so many ways that people can develop violent behavior video games can't be the only blame. Sources: [1]http://www.cracked.com... [2]http://newsok.com... [3]http://www.ign.com... [4]http://www.npr.org..."	CON	247
247	Sca66140c-A3a9c9d07	should video games be banned	Yes Video games should be banned because it teaches kids violence.	PRO	248
248	Saa180ed6-Ad4a25504	Video games are for retards	I am definitely not trolling and I am glad you also believe that video games are not for retards.	CON	249
249	S76692401-A57f55783	Are Video Games Too Expensive	Video games are too expensive because when it comes out newly it costs about 70 dollars.	PRO	250
250	S2537bf98-Af1a2a505	Video Games Are Not Bad For You	I do not believe that video games are bad for you or anybody else.	PRO	251
251	S75fbfa8d-A44449e5e	Violent video games, banning of	I appriciate your concern for saving lives. it is quite noble of you. But I feel that you are looking at the solution that is not rational. Once again rather than placing the responsibility on parents to take care of their children as most do. you think that it is more reasonable to take away millions of peoples rights? As a question of morals and what is wrong with playing video games, you are pushinhing your opinion onto others. That is morally wrong. Many would argue they enjoy playing games because its a fun stress releiver, its not reality because they are smart enough to tell the difference between real and fake. You have yet to accept the fact that the cause of these violent acts really have to do with video games or mental disorders. It could be simply that they are mesed up in the head and its a coincdence that they play those games. My last round I will summarize why everyone should vote for me. I await your closing argument	CON	252
252	Scd07580a-A180d48c9	Video games effect kids behavior	I accept this debate. Since Pro has not established any rules, here are a couple guidelines to follow: 1) Be polite and respectful. Avoid the ad hominem logical fallacy. 2) Sources are not necessary, but recommended. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Pro claims in the title that video games affect kid’s behavior, but then goes on to mention TV shows in their first sentence. We are left to assume that their resolution includes TV shows and video games. That being said, Pro’s resolution seems to be that video games and TV shows are directly having a negative net effect on kids. As Con, I assert that video games and TV shows do not directly have this negative net effect, but that these forms of entertainment can be educational, mentally stimulating, and helpful in developing a vivid imagination, as well as the notion that parents and guardians should be responsible to the content their children are exposed to. Burden of proof is shared. Definitions TV Show: A program broadcast by television [1] Video Game: An electronic game in which players control images on a television or computer screen [2] Parental Responsibility Let’s assume that particularly violent video games and TV shows do have a negative impact on kids. The issue with Pro’s claim is that the blame cannot be directly attributed to those entertainment methods, but rather the burden of responsibility lies with the parent(s) or guardian. All TV shows and video games have a blantantly clear and simple rating system. TV shows that are rated TV14 and above are obviously not made for children. [3] Games that are rated T may be acceptable for children depending on the game (maybe it’s a racing game or something), but games that are rated M and above certainly weren’t created with children in mind. [4] If the parent(s) or guardian feels that the child is mature enough to handle adult content and lets the child go ahead and use the entertainment, that is their call. Any negative effects reaped will be their fault due to the lack of insight in their child’s development. That being said, it is not directly the fault of the violent TV shows or games if a child is impacted negatively, it is directly the fault of the parent(s) or guardian for not being responsible for their children. TV Shows “Kids are mimicking tv characters behavior and are play fighting and other things.” – Pro As a side note before I continue, I’ll be splitting this quote in two. “Kids are mimicking tv characters behavior” – Pro As mentioned before, it is the fault of the parents if the child is mimicking characters from adult shows in a negative way. Otherwise, there’s frankly not an issue with imitating a character from a show that was created for children. “and are play fighting” – Pro Play fighting is not inherently bad. It’s just a natural part of growing up. Besides, children will play fight with or without the entertainment we’ve been discussing. That’s just what kids do. Video Games “In addition kids are playing video games like Black OPs and Modern Warfare which gives them access to firearms NOT GOOD” – Pro Pro asserts that virtually firing a weapon (at an enemy) is not good. There is no physical harm and little chance for mental harm to come from using guns in a video game. They’re not real weapons, they’re virtually generated. Once again, the responsibility lies upon the parents to monitor a child’s gaming activity if they truly dislike virtual guns. As a side note, if there is a gun in the house that the child is aware of, it’s also the parent’s responsibility to teach them gun safety and to keep the guns hidden away (if they feel the child is not mature enough). Education There are hundreds, if not thousands of entertaining games out there that are educational alternatives to games that some may deem mindless. Video games can be an enjoyable way of learning new things for children. These educational games are easily accessible and often free (via the App Store or Google Play Store, for an example). This gives parents the option to let their child play games that they feel are beneficial to them. The same essentially goes for TV shows. There are thousands of them out there for children to enjoy. That being said, there is an option for video games and TV shows to be used for educationally entertaining purposes as well as just normally entertaining purposes. They are not all bad for kids. Imagination Video games in specific have a way of transporting adults and kids alike into the wondrous world of the game they're playing. This occurrence develops a child’s imagination in that they are exposed to many exciting scenarios within the game that they cannot do and/or may not be aware of in real life. Taking in these scenarios builds the child’s imagination in that they are able to be more creative because they have the content from the games in their minds to mix into their play out in the real world. It mentally develops more options for the child’s play (outside of electronic entertainment) and encourages creativity in mixing the scenarios to create new ones. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- In conclusion, if a child is negatively impacted by a TV show or game, it is directly the entire fault of the parents or guardian for being irresponsible. Otherwise, this electronic entertainment can be educational and have a positive or at least neutral net effect on kids. Vote Con. [1] http://www.thefreedictionary.com... [2] http://www.merriam-webster.com... [3] http://www.tvguidelines.org... [4] http://www.esrb.org...	CON	253
253	Se6270ff-A924f60c	Video Games do not Cause Violence	I would like to thank my opponent for accepting this debate. As to the Columbine massacre (the news article that you are talking about), it has never been proven that Eric Harris' and Dylan Klebold's playing of violent video games had influenced their actions. The most likely cause of the massacre was bullying and mental illness (as the FBI had found). Many implications have been made pointing to video games being the cause but the majority of these are either proven untrue or not confirmed. [1] To the 8 year old killing his grandmother, the link between playing violent video games and the murder is unproven. This was just the police racing to find a cause of the attack and finding out that the kid played a violent video game. This unfortunately happens a lot with violent crimes, people will race to find a cause and end up finding the wrong one. [2] A study published in the Journal of Youth and Adolescence found absolutely no evidence between video games and violence in vulnerable teens. In fact, in some cases the violent video games had a calming effect on the player. [3] My arguments: Many studies have shown that violent video games do not desensitize kids and those most liable to have their minds altered. The studies would show kids who play non-violent and violent games different pictures, some showing graphic scenes (like a man holding a gun to a woman's head). The subjects would have their reactions to the photos monitored and recorded. They found that there was no difference between the violent game players' and non-violent game players' reactions. Many kids recognize and respect the boundaries between the virtual and real world, and would not cross them when it comes to violence. [4][5] Sources: [1] http://en.wikipedia.org... [2] http://www.cnn.com... [3] http://www.springer.com... [4] http://health.usnews.com... [5] http://gamepolitics.com...	PRO	254
254	S6a618e4b-A23efed0c	Video Games Are Causing Violence In Children	"This debate will have 3 rounds 1. Representing a case that fully proves why or why not video games are creating violence 2. Attacks/Rebuttals 3. Why one side has clearly one the round and should be voted for. I will now affirm the Resolution: Video Games are Causing Violence ""Video games are bad for you? That's what they said about rock-n-roll."" Shigeru Miyamoto Contention 1: Parents are Disregarding the Game - Now, must of us grew up playing video games and wanted a game that had a lot of violence in them. And since we were not old enough to buy it, our favorite grandparents or parent(s) got the game for us. In this generation, it is without a doubt that video games are getting much more violent. However, the exposure of this violence has to do with parents, and how they decide to raise their kids. It is clearly put on the back of a violent video game ""M"" for mature rating: strong langue, intense violence, sexual themes, and drug abuse, etc. Therefor, if a child does cause harm, the parents are the ones to be to blame as they bought the game for their child and are responsible for the outcomes of what happens to their child. Don't blame games for violence in kids or young adults, blame the irresponsible parents for that act of violence. According to a KOTAKU article, 2/3 of parents don't even bother looking at the game's rating. And believed that the games' age rating even mattered when purchasing a game. As you can see, it should be ultimately the parents fault if their loving angel had did something bad. http://kotaku.com... Contention 2: Correlation Does Not Prove Causation - This is the most logical and most proven philosophy ever, and has yet to be refuted. This philosophy basically states that just because you have a bigger shoe size doesn't mean you are a better runner. Things like this are completely logical and don't prove anything special, such as I have a size 10, but my dad can run way better than me and has a size 9. When it comes to video games, violence cannot simply be directly related to playing too many violent video games. I myself play a lot of violent video games, assassins creed, black ops, GTA, and others yet feel no compulsion to go and shoot out a super market or stab random people on the street. If a child plays a lot of call of duty, it does not mean that he is going to try and kill someone at school. It just doesn't relate. Many people after the Sandy Hook Shooting blamed violent video games on the shooters behavior because he tended to play them a lot. However that just wasn't the case, he was mentally unstable in the first place. Therefor, if my opponent wants to address this issue, he/she must EXPLICITLY show how video games do in fact, create violence in children. http://www.princeton.edu... http://www.pbs.org... (When reading this article, please read the FULL and Complete thing) Contention 3: No sufficient Studies -This argument will embody the fact that, regardless of how many studies that show video games (especially violent ones) are causing violence, they are completely false as they lack the correct variables and correlation to even prove that there is a direct link. Again from the pbs.org link above, regardless of the famous Ohio State University study on violence in video games (130,000 people surveyed, the variables weren't controlled and the subject results were skewed) the study was a complete fallacy and failed to make a direct link to why video games are causing violence. Now, lets start off with the fact that we are not addressing ""aggression"" we are explicitly addressing violence and should be the base of all studies shown in this debate. Studies on video games causing violence follow the same path, AS CORRELATION DOES NOT PROVE OR IMPLY CAUSATION. I must affirm because of my three points."	CON	255
255	S185c50aa-Af2a244e7	Are Video Games A Sport	Ok if ur going to say that video games is a sport that is sad because they are clearly not	CON	256
256	Sc958dc5a-A82747155	Violent video games should NOT be banned	Many people have many studies that contradict others. Parents should not allow children to play video games if they have home work. If Call of Duty wants me to buy a gun (witch I can't) and go shoot some one, then wouldn't Mario want me to jump down pipes and smash Venus fly traps? Video games do not lead to obesity. The reason why more kids are playing video games then before is because they have become more available. I go back to the parent. If the parent sees a decline in academics, social skills, and see an increase in isolation, then they could just stop the kid from playing video games. And yes, if they do play online they could pick up on bad language and behavior. But, they will only say it if they want to. Most games that you could go online to play asks if you are over 13. Yes, they could lie. When a kid starts up his game console, he always runs the risk of picking up the language and/or behavior. But when they start fighting, they are doing what they think is acceptable. The parent should be the one to censor what games the kids play. If an eight year old beats some guy up with a bat because of Grand Theft Auto, its the parents fault for letting him play it!	PRO	257
257	S74862f47-Aec39b893	Video games should be censored	"I perfectly understand what you were saying when you said that the US wasn't the only producer of games but what I meant by what I said was that international game producers have rights, and thus my argument is flawless. But the point, as we discuss it more, is taking us off topic. You also say that I am not understanding the resolution that video games SHOULD be censored when in reality, I do. As proof let me say this. When I argued that the first amendment protects us from censoring the games (and as I can tell the argument still stands), I not only meant that we cannot censor them but we should not either, because when you think about it, censoring games would take away the rights of game makers and producers. Doing this would ultimately rob us of our democracy and promote fascism. Are you really taking a fascist stance, a stance were a freedom is taken away? If this were to go through, it would open the door for even more freedoms to be taken away. This is an example on how I am following the resolution, and thus my arguments are not irrelevant, flawed, or wrong and still stand. As you say, I took the words right out of your mouth when I said that my parents LOOK OVER the ratings, when I did just the opposite, I said that they ""look over"" not overlook and if you cant see that to look over means to look at then please tell me to speak in plainer terms, so really I was never supporting your argument and it still stands. You say that if a child is subjected to language of the darker nature through video games then they will think its ok? Well, let me ask that if a parent were to cuss and/or promote violence in the home and it makes an impression on the child to where they think it's ok, dose it make it ok? Of course it does. now I bet a ton of readers right now are all like ""what the crap is he talkin' bout'!"" and ""how the heck does it make it ok!?!?!?!?!?"" These questions are somewhat hard to answer but I have given it hard thought and have come up with answers. If we're talking about the U.S.,the Government greatly supports the family, and also recognises the leaders of it as ""the last line"" in matters that pertain to the raising of the children, as long they are not abusing them in any way whether it be mentally, or physically. This means that if the parent is ok with it, so is the government as long as the parents don't hurt the child in the process. So you were wrong when you said ""in no way can this be interpreted as being good"" you were wrong, because in the eyes of the parents it's acceptable, even if it's not exactly ethical. All in all video games shouldn't be censored, it's against what our country in general is based off of, and I have presented evidence and points that support the stance of con but have no evidence to support you or any points I haven't shot down. Friend, no offense, but look who has ""NOTHING left"" now. (also, you keep on saying ""we"" like in round 2 when you said ""I stated we SHOULD censor video games"". Who is ""we"" anyway? you cant battle all the countries of the world you cant say that the worlds video games needs to be censored it's too broad to even begin to discuss, so if you'd please clarify who is ""we"" so I can actually know who I'm debating for and about then I would appreciate it, but until then I am only going to refer to the U.S. due to my limited knowledge on other countries)"	CON	258
258	Scfd4c48a-A519c4662	Video games cause bad behavior.	Now days, people, especially teenagers, like to play video games. But actually, do the video games cause them bad behaviors?!	PRO	259
259	S5ee22d2a-A6256e206	Should schools have video games	there are things worthwhile in video games i mean look at woodlands maths, people are learning their maths even better on it.Schools should have video games because of education, memory and new information	PRO	260
260	S6039c51a-A17e6861f	Are video games good for you	Video games are good yahh yahhh yahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh Because they improve memory and skills and stuff like that Yahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh	PRO	261
261	Sbed8bb66-Ad78cdec8	Feminism is ruining video games	Dearest apologies to my opponent for my forfeiture. It being Christmas time, I was lazy in my checking this site. I quite simply forgot to post my previous argument. Voters, please factor this into your consideration for the debate. It was unprofessional and deserves to be penalized in the conduct section. Since this is the final round, I shall refrain from posting any new arguments and instead sum up why I deserve to win this debate. Throughout his arguments, my opponent has provided arguments based more on his own personal bias against changes made in certain video games he favors than on accredited data. He even goes as far as to admit this, saying “You say I am making assumptions without any hard data or articles to back it up. Well I don't plan on having to rely on a sited source because I don't need to. Some things are just felt and seen by people who have a love for the medium.” Because of this, my opponent has failed to prove his point. My opponent has yet to prove any changed came from feminism, therefore, he has yet to prove that feminism is ruing video games. And, to briefly restate my main argument, I’ve still yet to see what games have been ruined based on changes stemmed from feminism. The truth is that more people are finding that females are just as capable in hero roles. While this may negatively affect a few games that have strictly masculine lore connected to it, it is not ruining video games in their entirety. Therefore, I urge you to vote Con on this debate. Thanks to my opponent for a well argued, very engaging debate. Once again, I apologize for my forfeiture. Have a great holiday season, and a happy New Year!	CON	262
262	Sd645ce1a-Aeb5ce8b7	video games help	video games are bad. they make people throw up. tv's and technology will ruin the world. your argument is invalid. canada isnt real.	CON	263
263	Sbd51665d-A805e1910	Video games are for loser Nerds	I contend that Video games are for stupid nerds with no life. Debate me if you desagree IMO	PRO	264
264	Sc827393f-A9458f73e	violent video games should be banned	"That is true. However, kids who play these games are not mature enough to understand the link between video games and the real world shootings. So they play the game, but they do not know that the fake gun they are firing can actually be used to shoot a person in the real world. However, I have many friends who played violent video games at a young age, and they have never used any violence they could have ""learned"" in those games. And I have seen many games rated Mature that are not violent."	CON	265
265	Sd5c9fd7c-A6b64b6d6	Video games do not cause violence`	"Hello, This round is dedicated to my rebuttals. Your first argument was supported with a link regarding an article published in 2010. Given the little knowledge know around the topic, there could have easily been a change in 6 or so years. The American Psychological Association released their information in 2015, meaning it is more recent, credible and therefore valid. Multiple times throughout this debate you have mentioned personal experience and opinion. While you said that you ""didn't feel aggressive"" after playing a violent video game, you do not represent the average across a whole board of people. This applies to my experience as well. Neither of us accurately represent, psychologically, the average person in this topic. Therefore, none of these points hold true. ""If video games actually DID cause violence, then wouldn't we be seeing more crime on the news?"" Isn't there already enough crime? This topic is not specifically talking about robberies and shootings. The violence could be as simple as a fight in the school playground, r out on the streets. The violence can be reflected in many ways, and is not always on the news. As for your point about television and comics, I have answered that. I said that when playing video games you are playing as yourself in the game and controlling it. You have the added simulation that it is you playing, not just a character in a television show or book. On top of this, it has no relevance to the topic, which centers on video games. When you suggested that I was only addressing children, that is not true. These statements can apply to most people. As well as this, if it only has relevance to children, then that is still part of the topic. In a whole, you have to address all parts, and as children are the most affected, it is perfectly reasonable to base some arguments on that. I can't argue with your next point. Sometimes video games are used for therapy, but this is not true for everyone. For a lot of people, video games wouldn't be a successful form of therapy, as for some there would be quite a few negative reactions. My first argument is proved directly on the American Psychological Association website. A small amount of searching would have you find it, and the hyperlink still works on my computer. This being said, my first argument remains completely valid. There is an article saying that the FBI found that some, and I stress the word some, perpetrators of mass shootings played video games regularly. Once again, I am not saying that they performed the acts they did solely because of video games, just remarking on that information. The information you presented for the average age of a games was published in 2012, so the age group may have changed, considering there was a 7 year age drop in the time span of 1 year. That being said, it is of no particular importance to this topic anyway. Thank you."	CON	266
266	Sc827393f-Af9e3cc0	violent video games should be banned	They get anger out by trying to kill a person that is not actually real. Therefore, they will not hurt actual people. You know people that play violent video games and got sucked in. However, that is just people you know. Yes, I have been hearing about mass shootings lately. But, according to ijreview.com, the shooter in Newtown, Connecticut, did not play any video games as a child. According to Science Illustrated November 2011, soldiers use violent video games to cure their stress.	CON	267
267	S57837677-A82cddce9	Video Games are better than Movies.	For starters, I love both video games AND movies, but I find video games far more entertaining. Thus, I will be arguing the point that video games are the better medium. Con must argue the opposite. Ground rules: 1: No cursing. 2: No personal attacks, otherwise you forfeit. 3: Stay on point. No semantics, kritiks, etc. If there are any rules for common decency I missed, feel free to let me know and we can apply them before we begin.	PRO	268
268	Sd407e82c-A854e3a34	Video games caused WW2.	Good debate. I was just mocking people who actually blame video games and music for violence.	PRO	269
269	S3307f209-Abcac14d9	Ban the sale of violent video games	"http://www.neisd.net... These are the rules that go with an LD topic such as this p,ease provide by them and no plagiarizing. Please also share sources. I will do so likewise. Let's begin! -Here is what some of the people out there have to say: ""Violent video games are teaching are kids to be violent. It is a known fact that we learn by repetition. By allowing children to play violent video games it starts to desensitize them at an early age to the effects of violence. These games were originally designed for military training to help soldiers overcome their hesitancy in shooting the enemy."" -""Video Game Violence and Why It Should End Video games these days are now just shooting and killing. Children play these games for entertainment and I know that they are fun, because I play them too. But this is a serious thing. Children do not need to play violent games because games can influence children to do so. People say,""Oh, my son promised to never act like that,"" or,""Tyler loves these games and he keeps asking for a BB gun"". The BB gun may be just for fun, but soon he'll get a real gun. Violent video games like MWF3 or Call of Duty or Assassins Creed are insults to military men. They're at war, fighting for our country, and you've got your butt on a couch, laughing at people who are getting shot on a video game. This is a serious offense to soldiers. And what if you played these games and someone you love is in the military. Would they feel offended. Go on. Ask yourself. They are insulting, bad for children, and brutal."" -""Those Who voted 'No' are delusional fools. It's plainly obvious, video games make people of all ages agitated and aggressive. -I've seen it in my nephews and niece and there are countless studies available at your finger tips. The vast majority of respondents to this article are delusional people with absolutely no sense of what's going on. Now that is a cold hard fact and highly unfortunate that there are so many video game addicts."" -""Yes violent video games should be banned!! Police have linked several violent cases to violent video games. For example a 8 year old boy oblivious to the real life fact that if you shot someone in real life they would die and not come back, took out a gun and shot is grandmother. His grandmother did die and did not come back. He is now facing life in prison after juvenile hall of course for something he didn't realize was bad in the first place. Video games pump things into children's heads so bad these days they have no way of knowing the difference between real life and video game life."" -Now let's talk some philosophy. -Posted by Mike LaBossiere on June 27, 2011 Leave a comment (21)Go to comments I have been using my budget-cut based summer break from teaching to do various home improvements. The point of mentioning this is that I have been alternating between baking in the Florida sun and being exposed to ""second hand paint fumes"" (as opposed to directly huffing the stuff) as such, my writing might be a bit off. I have checked for any obvious weirdness (well, weirdness beyond the usual sort), but I apologize in advance for any heat/paint induced lapses in logic. I blame the flying frogs that seem to be infesting my house now. In any case, down to business. -The supreme court recently ruled that California""s law banning the sale of video games to minors that ""depict serious injury to human beings in a manner that is especially heinous, atrocious, or cruel."" The ruling was, of course, based on the first amendment. -Being both a gamer and an ethicist, I have thought (and written) a fair amount about the banning video games. On the one hand, a very reasonable case can be made for placing age based restrictions on video games. While studies of the impact of virtual violence on children are hardly conclusive, it seems reasonable to accept that exposure to virtual violence can have an impact on how the child thinks. As Aristotle has argued, people become habituated by what they do. Children are, of course, even more likely to be influenced. They are more receptive than adults and tend to lack the cognitive resources that adults are supposed to possess. As such, it seems reasonable to keep young children away from violence-even the virtual sort. -On the other hand, there are reasonable grounds for rejecting such bans. First, there are reasons for doubting that such games have a significant impact on children. The psychological studies are open to question and, of course, humans seem to be naturally prone to violence ( the stock ""we like violent games because we are violent, we are not violent because of the games"" argument). When I was a kid, long before violent video games, we spent a lot of time playing war. While the effects were not very special (cap guns), we certainly did act out killing each other. When violent video games came along, they simply allowed me to do what I had done as a kid (play at killing) only with ever better graphics and effects). As such, banning violent video games to protect children from the influence of violence seems like something that simply will not work, thus making such a law unnecessary. -Second, there is the matter of freedom of expression and consumption. While minors do have a reduced right of freedom of consumption (they cannot but alcohol, tobacco, guns or porn), imposing on their freedom only seems justified when it protects them from a significant harm in cases in which they lack the judgment to (in theory at least) make an informed choice. Even if violent video games have a harmful impact, it can be contended that the harm is not on par with that of adult vices such as alcohol or tobacco but rather on par with junk food. So, just as it is sensible to think that children should not eat junk food, yet also think there should not be laws banning children from buying candy bards, it seems sensible to think that although young kids should not buy violent video games, there should not be laws against doing so. -Third, there is the matter of what is fit for the state to control and what is fit for parents to control. There are, obviously enough, matters that should be handled by the state and those that should remain a matter of parental choice. Alcohol, guns and tobacco are so dangerous that it seems reasonable that the state has a interest in keeping children away from these things by force of law. There is also a category of things were the state should aid parents in making choices, such as diet and exercise, but where the state should not intervene except in extreme cases. As noted above, I am inclined to put violent video games in the category of junk food. As such, parents should be informed about what the games contain (which is already done by the rating system) and the choice of whether or not their children play the games or not should be up to them. Naturally, children who lack parents or whose parents are dangerously incompetent will fall under the domain of the state, but these would be relatively rare cases."" http://blog.talkingphilosophy.com... -BY ERIK BRUDVIGViolent media has existed as long as human history and the debate over how or when to control it is as hotly contested as ever. With the trend towards greater realism and graphic content that began in the 90's, videogames have found themselves the focal point du jour. But how much of an impact have these violent videogames had? We'll take a look at the psychological, political, and economic issues surrounding violent videogames and try to make sense of it all. No matter which side of the fence you sit on this argument, it is important to know the facts. -Selling an Image Anybody who has been playing games for the past five years must surely have noticed the recent and accelerating trend towards ""thugsploitation"" games. The success of Grand Theft Auto III assured us all that we'd be seeing a steady stream of imitators hoping for their own piece of the pie. Over the top violence, sexual themes, and drug references have become commonplace in videogames and certainly take more than their fair share of the mainstream press's time. But how far has this ""even negative press is good press"" philosophy taken these games? Eighty-five percent of all games sold in 2005 were rated ""E"" for Everyone, ""T"" for Teen, or ""E10+"" for Everyone 10+. (Entertainment Software Association) Additionally, only one (Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas) of the top 10 grossing games for 2005 was rated ""M"" for Mature. That's not to say that these top selling games are suitable for all ages. Seven of the top ten games of 2005 have some form of violence listed as a descriptor by the ESRB, but it certainly speaks volumes about what the impact of the steady stream of Mature games is on the consumer side. Nintendo, a company always concerned with the content of games appearing on its systems, may be on to something more than just being ""kiddy."" Despite the relatively small market share these Mature games have garnered, it hasn't stopped our lawmakers from latching on to them and turning them into a political focal point. -Public Policy With all of the uproar surrounding the Columbine shootings and other similar tragedies, as well as the Hot Coffee controversy, lawmakers have been quick to propose legislation that would limit the access of violent material to minors. Violent game laws have been proposed or considered in Kansas, Utah, Michigan, Maryland, Indiana, Washington, Illinois, California, Germany, and recently, the U.S. Senate. So far, none of these proposals have become a reality at your local videogame store. -read more @ http://www.ign.com..."	PRO	270
270	Sa9323a86-A62828ed2	Video games are the fall of humanity	The average person spends about 900 hours a year playing video games. This is time well wasted	PRO	271
271	S6812fc05-A5c060fdf	Video Games are an art form.	My only argument to post in particular is that art forms are specifically fine art, which video games are not classified as.	CON	272
272	S4b5a7a70-Aa49dd2ab	Video Games are the new art form	"I'm not sure which comments to address so I will address all of them. ""Answer those questions and you'll understand my argument."" First, I will state your questions: ""Does literature have a monopoly on expanding people's ideas? Is it the only way that people can learn something? And is it nearly half as effective to read something, as it is to live it?"" Now, the title of this is ""Video games are the new art"" This isn't relevant to the title and to your introduction. Of course I brought it up and thereby you coming to ask these questions but, I don't think you could say I'll understand your entire argument from just those questions. As for each question: ""Does literature have a monopoly on expanding people's ideas?"" As of now, most people and teachers, will continue to express literature being the prime source of people's ideas. At least this is what they are trying to influence kids. When you read in school, often teachers will tell the kids look for a deeper meaning hence, expanding their ideas. When children play video games, no one influences them to think like that. Whether they should or shouldn't is a debate I would not like to get into. But this must be noted and is a fact for the majority of people. ""Is it the only way that people can learn something?"" What made you think I said that? Please quote where I said that. I don't think at all literature is the only way people can learn something. And most popular literature books do not possess academic benefit but more spiritual benefit and morals. If you would be able to say what you said above, I could ask you ""Is video games the only way that people can learn something?"" But of course you meant to say that sometimes you could learn something academically on the side although I disagree with you. ""And is it nearly half as effective to read something, as it is to live it?"" 1) You are still not living it by playing video games just because of good graphics. It's like saying you're living it because of good imagery. Of course people reading novels will often say, ""It's like I'm living what happened"" but it's just an expression. 2) That is an opinion and I agree with you but not in all cases. It's good to read about something or maybe even play a video game before you live it. I asked the same thing in my previous debate and opponent made a good point so I will quote him ""you probably have never read the book ""Desert Flower"" but ill break it down for you to the basics. Its about a Somali girl dealing with her genital mutilation by her father who runs away from her home searching for truth. Now when you said 'experience helps you deal with it, not reading about it', tell me Pro, when was the last time you had to deal with your genitals being mutilated? Would reading about genital mutilation still have an impact on how you would deal with? Experiencing it first hand would be far more emotional but reading about it would still have an impact on your perception over the matter, and that cannot be denied..."" ""'living' it is entirely different."" Okay and I will stress the answer to your point again: Playing video games is not living it. Playing video games is not living it I will say it in Spanish jugar juegos de video, no está viviendo get the picture. ""when someone enjoys something, they're much more receptive to it."" Name me common video games kids ""enjoy"". I bet you very few of them have academic benefit. No one is their to explain to them what academic topics come up in the video game if there is. The child might not be capable of understanding it. ""The potential to teach people with video games is enormous and if ever harnessed effectively, could change how everyone learns on a day to day basis."" I'm going to focus on the word ""if"". As of now they aren't. There are few like leap frog, or jump start but those aren't extremely popular nor do they have benefit for a little older kids over 8. ""I challenge you to find a sport that is more strategic than games like Starcraft 2"" This is off the top of my head. Basketball: I'll name you zones, which are strategies. 2-3 zone, 3-2 zone 1-3-1 zone, box-1 zone, diamond-1 zone... This is all strategic thinking. Football: The best quarter backs like Aaron Rogers (Best in the league) or Drew Breeze (Good luck on Sunday) are strategic thinkers. They have to think of hundreds of plays. The list goes on and on. ""the website of a college only for video games"" 1)Okay, there is a football school. Does that mean football has academic benefit? Of course not. 2) I meant in everyday classes. ""The people who spend tons of time on video games would have probably been anti-social any way and this just selves as the best means of entertainment."" So parents should just give up and not prevent it and try to help their children be more social? A good parent would not give up and I hope the majority of people disagree with you. ""being online"" dependent on if you're talking to your friends. ""playing video games with someone else"" In moderation I agree with you but, if you just play video games, that won't make you very social. ""TONS of games have puzzle aspects to them,"" It might warm up your brain this is true, but it doesn't help you with everyday problems. ""And this is much better than reading it in books"" It's not because books make you think more. ""and Don is much more powerful than just simply learning."" Right there! Video games do not have ""simply learning"" Your point on video games helping one work toward and achieve a goal If you need to rescue someone, like you might in call of duty, playing the video game doesn't give you the military training or help you at all. (Aside from strategic thinking which is just a tiny head start in military training), ""it will be widely accepted as the art that it is."" They don't give as deep insights as the other things I have listed. Some video games give insight this is 100% true. But it is not a primary source of insights nor does it have as much insights as the things I mentioned. ""Just because a game is popular don't mean it has to be deep."" I said that because you said every game being great is like every song to win a grammy and a grammy is usually won from how good the song is not the insights. So that is why I asked my question. I didn't feel your simile was relevant. ""don't really know what you're trying to say here"" I'm trying to say that one of the reasons it's not taking over as the new art right now is because most people aren't looking for a deeper meaning thereby rejecting it as an art. The name of this argument is ""Video Games are the new art form"" meaning currently while you are saying it is going through its process of becoming a new art and you are changing your words at the end of the debate. Currently, it's not the new art. ""Yes the majority of game developers..."" That's why movies and tv aren't a prime source of insights and neither are video games. This went under the topic Video games give deep insights. ""For something to be an art it doesn't take a majority to care about it."" Well the majority of the world has to agree that it's an art for it to be an art so if they don't care about it, it can't be an art right now. ""and that's enough for it to be considered art."" Because the majority of the world agreed on it being an art which is why it is a mandatory class. I thank my opponent for an interesting debate and I hope the saints beat the 9ers. (Please don't not vote for me if you're a 9ers fan. Good look to them too."	CON	273
273	S3466ccde-A25e2d200	Video Games cause violence	Thanks for the reponse I shall add a new argument onto this 1: The GTA example was a basic comparison 2: Ill let that argument pass 3: Most violent video games that are popular now adays punish extreme or unessecary violence examples of this are -Dis-Honoured. If you kill anyone in the game the game will punish you by making enemies harder adding more enemies etc. -Deus Ex Human revolution -This game dis courages killing and wants you to be more diplomatic and use non lethal non violent techniques (Killing also gives much less points compared to knocking out with a tranq gun) -Gta Cops come after you -Payday Money is subtracted from your account And the list can go on. Most video games have a system or choice that dis courages killing.	CON	274
274	Sdafffd65-Ab5cbac3e	Video Games Are An Art Form	Art in deifinition in my means is the picture of imagination and also by skill like a sculpture etc. I oppose your claims because video games are more social than art and for video gamers like you is art. People who plays these games might call them pixel virtual images or pixelations. So for u (the pro) might think they are art in your eyes anime people and cool scenes and images it's not i'm very sorry to say. Pixelations is classified differently than art it's more computer than by actual physical skill.In my oppinion killing and blood all over the place is not the type of art and lovely beautiful animes are just making the storyline of the game interesting and also can have more sales.	CON	275
275	S75fbfa8d-A74efc2a1	Violent video games, banning of	I will be arguing against the idea of banning violent video games. There are three points I will focus on why banninging video games is wrong 1) No one should take away an indivduals right to choose what they do on their free time. 2) Just looking at one game, call of duty there are 100 MILLION players. How many of those are causing violence on their free time? You gave an example of one 14 year old boy. As we debate I will go into statistics and sources 3) Why should the government ban something that PARENTS should control not the GOVERMENT. Why should adults not play a game because some 14 year old was not proerply supervised by a parent. He was allowed to play a game that was rated M. Should I a grown man, not be allowed to play a game because of that poor choice? That is illogical.	CON	276
276	Sfadd659c-Abbdbc87a	Are video games corrupting children	You see, even if you do have the money to support yourself and don't need to work, you are pretty much deleting your purpose in life. No one will gain anything, including yourself if your life is wasted on video games. The difference is that it's not face to face interaction. People loose their social skills such as non verbal communication. Some people even loose their sanity and think they can do things they can do in the game. You'd still think that's just one person, but it still is a problem. A reason why kids hate books is they are being forced on them. If we just lowered the amount of video games in our day to day life just a little bit it can show great inprovement. You know a boy got cancer from staring at a screen all day.	PRO	277
277	Sfadd659c-A372e2f23	Are video games corrupting children	Food is a survival need. We will survive without playing video games. They are destroying social skills, causing obesity, and people souks rather sit in their house all day then appreciate life. It's currupting our brains, gamers, and by that I mean intense gamers who spend their life playing video games do not do so well. Some people are quitting their jobs to play minecraft! (Stampylongnose, I like his videos but that is just insane!) Humans are becoming too reliant on electricity and if it was ripped off this earth forever there'd be a riot. That's what extreme fans do when their team looses the world cup. And it's fun debating with you too.	PRO	278
278	Sf888e5a8-A50c9c5ee	Video Games are Sports	After reading your argument, I conclude that it's incredibly solid. I concede that at some point, video games will be considered sports at the same level of competitive physical sports. At the moment, eSports is not widely regarded as a sport outside of the eSports community (I'd personally have no problem with it being accepted as a real sport, but that has no bearing on the argument), as the president of ESPN said that video games are a competition rather than a sport, and Colin Cowherd publicly voiced his disdain for competitive gaming at the professional level on his show, The Herd (although it may be worth noting that these men were born in the 1950s and 60s respectively). Thanks to pro for showing me the reasons why you think the way you do, you have officially swayed me. I concede.	CON	279
279	S1dd4cde4-A1bdde76e	Video Games Can Cause Violence	The most common argument is that video games desensitize your reaction to violence, thus making you violent. But anyone who has the cognitive faculties to purchase, set up and operate modern games consoles won't have trouble with being desensitized. According to records held by the U.S. Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention and Office of Justice Programs, sales of video games have more than quadrupled from 1995-2008, while the arrest rate for juvenile murders fell 71.9% and the arrest rate for all juvenile violent crimes declined 49.3% in this same period. It should be the other way around, if that was true. although researchers have often noted the preference of violent video games by many school shooters, given that 97 percent of adolescents play video games such a preference is not overly surprising. It could similarly be argued that oxygen consumption predicts school shootings and crime, because most school shooters likely breathed within 10 seconds before their violent attack (Hey, maybe it does) I'll post more if you actually respond	CON	280
280	Sd645cdfb-Aa2baadba	video games help	"Video games are therapeutic for children with chronic illnesses The University of Utah released a study last year that examined the effects of regular gaming on children diagnosed with illnesses like autism, depression, and Parkinson's disease. Kids who played certain games, including one designed just for the study, showed signs of improvement in ""resilience, empowerment, and a 'fighting spirit.'"" Researchers believe the games' ability to act on ""neuronal mechanisms that activate positive emotions and the reward system"" helped improve kids' demeanors as they faced the daily challenges of their illnesses."	PRO	281
281	S8db68a7c-Aaed1d3ac	Video games encourage violent behavior	"It looks like my opponent is a glutton for punishment. In today's round, I will disprove the notion that ""Video games encourage violent behavior."" First, the job of the instigator is to prove that video games encourage violent behavior. My opponent only list one event to suggest this. Keep in mind that during this event, they two boys played a VIOLENT VIDEO GAME. Now, onto his argument. He suggest that the Columbine massacre was caused due to both Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold both being fans of the video game listed as Doom. My opponent is either guilty of ignorance and dishonesty, as this valid assessment points to their psychological problems being caused by other factors: http://www.slate.com... . In fact, the following quote sums up their reasons for committing the school shooting: ""These are the rantings of someone with a messianic-grade superiority complex, out to punish the entire human race for its appalling inferiority"" (by the way, the specific rantings are listed in the article). I would like to add that studies performed have actually suggested that video games have an even LESSER effect on the aggression of an individuals than television does: http://www.blackwell-synergy.com... Finally, given that the video game industry is very beneficial to the entertainment industry, logic suggest there are quite a plethora of individuals who buy and play video games. If that is the case, shouldn't there be far MORE incidences of violent behavior as we've seen with the Columbine catastrophe? At any rate, my opponent has not provided you with valid evidence that would suggest that video games (not just ones that fall under the violent category) encourage violent behavior. Since the burden of proof belongs to him, the contender automatically wins this debate. Thank you."	CON	282
282	Sd672d38d-Aa56abe10	Violent Video games should be ban	In your last post, you said there are many crimes caused by video games. Actually, no there are not. You cited 1 example out of a country that has over 3,000,000 prisoners and 7,000,000 more who are not in the system any longer. Bottom line is this, you can find a relationship between crime and anything you want. All the people who ever committed crimes were breathing that day. So therefore, breathing causes crimes. Come on, who are we kidding? Like I said, I have been around real violence. In real violent confrontations, there are very specific reasons why people commit those acts. It isn't the video games. Plus, 67% of American households have video games in them. Out of all those households, we have one incident of a violence that was supposedly due to a video game. There does not need to be a ban.	CON	283
283	Sbed8bb66-Ace47bc57	Feminism is ruining video games	While my opponent has listed several changes in which Feminism might have influenced video games, he has yet to A.) Affectively persuade me that they’ve ruined video games (singular or plural), B.) Prove that feminism is the direct root of the change he mentioned, and C.) Provide sufficient evidence that suggests these games are worse because of their depiction of women. I, on the other hand, will suggest an instance where Feminism might have positively influenced games. The example that first comes to mind is the Dragon Age series, which depicts feminine characters in a much more positive light than games before it. 1.) The characterization of Cassandra is both somewhat masculinized, but does not suffer because of this. The depiction of Women in Power, especially in that of Inquisition, could be seen as a direct change because of Feminism. To argue that this is a negative aspect of the game would be somewhat ludicrous, being that it bears no influence with how the story is told. However, my second argument is not based on feminism’s influence on games; it’s actually based on its lack of influence. It is my contention that society’s changing viewpoints of sexualization and objectification caused a greater need to have female characters whom are portrayed as far more than sexual objects and damsels in distress. If one were to look at films, television series, and games throughout the past few decades, female characters have undergone a very specific evolution in attempts to battle the Male Gaze. Because of this, it is only natural that a video game will mirror the rest of society’s thoughts. Lastly, my final rebuttal deals with a specific point made by my opponent. In regards to a sexualized character in Metal Gear Solid 5, my opponent stated, “There was a big controversy over Metal Gear Solid 5 because one of the females had a typical athletic but sexualized body. So what is a developer suppose to do, make a woman fat? Well they did with Fat Princess and that got heat for depicting woman as fat, even though there are plenty of comedic fat male characters.” My opponent erroneously thought the complaints were directed at the woman’s body, whereas they were actually directed at the woman’s clothing. Here is an image of the woman: This is clearly sexualization, if not objectification. My opponant assumes feminists had a problem with her body, but it is my conjecture that they were more disappointed with the clothing depcition of this woman. If the woman had been more naturally dressed, the issue would be far less severe. That's it for now. I look forward to my opponents arguments!	CON	284
284	Se81dfba3-Afc153f44	Video Games increase child violence	I'm personally against that statement, and i can prove it wrong. Pro: Says that video games increase child violence Con(me): Says that video games do not increase violent behavior to children You may go first.	CON	285
285	Sc51b1af2-A58724170	Video games make you violent	"The violence is not caused by the video games, they are not designed for that, that other people tells you ""fat"" (like in the video you showed me) or they losing and scream because they lose, can happen not just by losing in video games, in every single thing that requires competition. Or the German kid impatient for playing and he don't know how to lose."	CON	286
286	Se9e7c17-Ae71d1ad9	do video games cause viloence	I think video games don't cause violence because kids have accepted the fact that it isn't real. They know the consequences of doing the things they see In video games and accept it. In a case ,involving a school shooter who played Dance Dance Revolution, it showed no connection between the game and killer. The case was given to a lieutenant who came up with the conclusion that games have no effect on kids.	CON	287
287	Sb83ffb49-Ad10c5bd1	Should Video Games be Restricted by Parents	"Well yes. I agree with what you are saying. ""games can be violent and lead to certain behaviors."" That is VERY true. But, there is a certain twist to it. Those specific video games can be banned by the parents. If they have no control over this, this would be the child's decision if he/she wants to play those games. Its just like stopping people from taking drugs, smoking. I mean we just can't stop these things ether way. I suppose you understand my point. If this child chooses to play these video games, no one can stop that decision besides the parents or guardian."	CON	288
288	S6fcc7b94-A4703d16a	Video games lack actual skill.	"I am sorry if you got a little confused with my previous argument, Pro, but I am stating that by your logic, pressing a button takes no skill. If these gamers do not actually have ""mad skills"", they would be just as unskilled as me. Video games take skill. While the gamer may be moving his or her thumb or finger(s) to play, they also do use some brainpower to think about the strategy, and in order to perform certain tasks in a game, there is timing involved. Video games is not all pressing buttons. There is precision and strategy involved in video games, it is not just pushing buttons. Professional gamers do have skill, though. Why else would they be called professionals, as you wrote yourself. According to this article: http://www.futurity.org... , video games actually speed up reaction time. While you may compare a professional gamer's reaction to a professional sports player or a professional musician, but how do professional players' reflexes to one of an average person? According to another Futurity article, gamers, amateur and professional have better reflexes than most non-gamers. I am afraid that I am not familiar with Star Wars Battlefront. Based off of your argument, forty kills is very good, but that would not make you a professional. I threw for 2752 yards in 10 games of football, and I am not a professional at football. I struck out 168 batters in 25 games of baseball, and I am not a professional. I have been playing clarinet for almost 5 years, and I am nowhere near being a professional. Professional gamers actually dedicate their lives to being great at video games. That is how they get mad skills and is how they are professionals. I play a lot of football and baseball, and I practice my clarinet often, but I do not devote my life to them. You could call me a professional student, because I pretty much devote my life to school."	CON	289
289	Sfadd659c-Af9e43118	Are video games corrupting children	See, the thing that I do not understand is, what gives someone the right to say you are wasting your life on something? If someone wants to sit and play video games all day everyday than who are you to say they are wasting their life? And I disagree, you will gain something. You will gain happiness. You argue that the reason social media hubs like Facebook and Twitter do not work is because it is not face to face. That can actually be a good thing. Think of non face to face as practice. Someone typing to their friend can practice how they word/say things. Also video games have been proven to help with hand eye coordination visual acuity and social disorders. Video games have a lot of pros to them, these pros well outweigh the cons. As for the comment you made about a kid getting cancer after looking at a screen all day, I could not find a single article or news article that said anything about it. However, even if it were true, you cannot say that every kid is going to get cancer because they watch t.v all day. If that were the case than all the people that go to work everyday and stare at a computer screen should have cancer. Which brings me to my next point. If you go to a work place and stare at a screen all day working on programs and making money than you are doing something productive, than you are accepted. But if you play games all day and make money than you are cheating and not being productive in society.	CON	290
290	S5b6b29c-Ae7b3946	Violent Video Games	Hello, I would like to debate on the subject of violent video games. I will now counter argue my opponent's points. First of all, you said that parenting is a primary source to violence, while this may be a legitimate statement, it does not pertain to the argument at hand. Second, you mentioned that some people may not be able to differentiate reality from fantasy, and that may cause them to be more prone to violence without gaming. This is only true in some cases. For example, a child. If a child plays this game, he will be prone to violence he is most likely has not been exposed to otherwise. You mentioned that parents should be deciding at an early age whether they should play violent video games or not. Well if video games that were violent were not sold, this would not be a problem at all. You mentioned call of duty, or medal of honor. You said that while realistic, it is educational. I have to disagree, as the last four Call of Duty games have taken place in modern ages. With most taking place in the near future. Did you know the Military uses first person shooters to make them less sensitive to killing. Why would you expose that to children? As for Crysis, it still involves shooting humans. The fact stands that you shouldn't put children in the hands of someone who is killing another person.	CON	291
291	Se81dfba3-Aa0920d2e	Video Games increase child violence	"Thank you for your response. It is certainly interesting. First, I have no idea where my opponent is coming up with his ""increased blood flow"" claim, I do not see anywhere in my sources where it mentions this. Also scientists do not make anything up. These are valid studies in which I have shown that show a correlation between increased violence among children and video games together, based on study and evidence. Scientists DO NOT and CANNOT sub in made up information wherever they want. Therefore my opponents claim that: ""People's thinking is like so: Oh, tests (I'm talking about EEG experiment method) shown that the kids that play video games (violent ones actually) have increased blood flow in the part of the brain associated with copycat activities, therefore they become more aggressive and prone to copy actions from a violent video game."" is an invalid claim here as I am dealing with real experiments conducted by scientists. Also I would like to point out that my opponent shows absolutely no sources to back up his claim whereas my argument is solely built on cited sources. My opponent shows an extreme fallacy by trying to make a claim that he knows kids that play violent video games but who aren't violent. This argument is invalid on many levels. He has given absolutely no evidence or source to back up this claim and it does absolutely nothing to attempt to disprove that ""video games increase child violence"". My opponent then tries to make an argument that I have done my research but haven't really understood what the tests have shown. I have understood the tests perfectly and have made valid claims based on the results of the tests. Again my opponent has done no such thing. Again my opponent uses a complete straw-man argument by 1st manipulating the argument to fit his desire. For example the actual line I used in my argument is ""teens who play violent video games for extended periods of time: tend to be more aggressive, are more prone to confrontation with their teachers"". My opponent manipulated this line into ""people who play violent video games don't do well at school and are more prone to get into an argument with a teacher"". A complete and unfair manipulation of my argument. My opponent then made another complete fallacy by claiming that people from his school who play video games turn out to be less aggressive than the ones that do not play video games. Lastly my opponent claims that people ""don't get aggressive because of playing violent video games"" but he again has given absolutely zero references to back up this claim, or any other of his claims. All in all I don't feel con has really attempted to try and make a strong case for his stance at all. He has merely just tried to refute my sources, with absolutely no back up, references, cited sources etc."	PRO	292
292	Saa180ed6-Af77b45cb	Video games are for retards	You just agreed with me... But anyway, video games are an incredibly useful tool through which it is possible to develop many skills such as 360 no scoping and just generally being an mlg pro. Basically, Gabe has infinite swag an is a fabulous human being. One of his favourite games is quick scope simulator which only the most intelligent and fabulous people play (search it up).	CON	293
293	S45462ad0-A301161ca	Can video games be healthy	Video games are a major health benefit to the people of the world. They can: reduce stress, improve eyesight and help dyslexic children, and it can help manage pain, depression and addiction.	PRO	294
294	S2120845c-A6193e890	Video games can be good.	I think video games don't cause crime but they can do harm but don't get me wrong they don't cause crime but it can do harm I accept on to Pro	CON	295
295	Sd94ca2d5-Aff3874d3	The content of Video Games	"We are now at our final round of debate. I'd like to summarize by saying while I agree there is no direct evidence of the cause-and-effect relationship between violent video games and teen violence, we can NOT afford to think that having violent video games readily available for people of all ages does not pose certain degree of concern. The concern is it occupies the mind of immature and mentally unstable teenagers with aggressive thoughts and might trigger violent behavior, causing great harm to other people and demoralize the rest of society. Just because there is no direct evidence does not mean it is not the case as I postulated. We are actually quite used to believing things without direct evidence - most religious beliefs fall into this category. Another similar example: when one plays Sudoku, sometimes there is no obvious hint what number one should put down in a cell, but by indirect deduction, we reach the conclusion that there are no other possibilities but to put down a certain number. I believe that violent video gaming contributed to the Columbine incidence because no other possible causes made profound sense to me. The two teenagers engaged in playing Doom constantly. This couldn't have been a good thing. Yes, there might have been other contributing factors. But who is to say that the violence they practice in their virtual world did not become the ""last straw on the back of the camel"" and played into their final act? One day when you have kids of your own, you might have second thoughts of allowing them unrestricted access to violent video games. Don't you agree?"	PRO	296
296	Sfadd659c-Abf20cf4c	Are video games corrupting children	"I am on the con side because of multiple reasons. I have heard that video games are corrupting the minds of children for quite awhile. Now my whole view point is that I do not thing video games are corrupting kids, nor are they ""bad"" in any way. I mean I guess you could use the argument that kids have (for instance) played superman and then jumped off a roof. These kind of arguments make me laugh. So just because someone is allergic to peanuts then they should ban peanuts? the kid that jumped off of the roof had some kind of ailment. Now do I think that a 8 year old should be playing grand theft auto? No, the ERSB rates games accordingly. However I do think that if a child is 15 and shows maturity for their age than yes they should be able to play such a game. There is physical age and also mental age."	CON	297
297	Sb83ffb49-A825c8b07	Should Video Games be Restricted by Parents	"I believe video games must be restricted by the parents to a certain extent, I am not saying completely it is true that kids come home stressed out after school, But one thing we have to keep in mind is that the video games the kids play influences them a lot. It can sometimes influence his/her character. It can take away his concentration from studies completely at times. Just imagine a kid is playing a video game which has not been recommended for his age for example games like Grand Theft Auto, Bullet storm etc. these games are all very violent they even have sexual scenes in them and also in these games they use a very vulgar language which aren't recommended for children, seeing these things in games they would want to try this out in real life. That can also lead to the kids under the age of 12 being exposed to drugs. For something silly a kid can even kill his own brother or sister without hesitation because in the games he has played killing people and monsters was "" F U N"". It is also not necessary for parents to buy them these games, it will be supplied to them by their friends. I would always recommend kids to play video games but thing is all must be careful because everything has its other side. So watch out ! and think again before buying Your kid a gaming console and a Game."	PRO	298
298	Sca66140c-A794dd831	should video games be banned	video games are good for u. for example ABC mouse teaches kids to read, write, and math and other important thing that can help you in the future.	CON	299
299	S5b6b29c-A216eee33	Violent Video Games	"I would like to thank my opponent for his great rebuttal. You said that a childs mindset may not understand the violence portrayed in video games. My response to that is ""exactly"". Due to the fact that the child does not understand the violence, he or she is more likely to think that his kind of behavior is okay. Mostly because, as you have stated, they do not understand he violence, or how it is wrong. I can also give many examples in which children have commited acts of violence due to a video game. One for example,On August 2, 2008, Polwat Chinno, a 19-year-old Thai teenager, stabbed a Bangkok taxi driver to death during an attempt to steal the driver's cab in order to obtain money to buy a copy of Grand Theft Auto IV. A police official said that the teen was trying to copy a similar act in the game. Another thing I forgot to point out. is that some video games teach kids the wrong values. Violent behavior, vengeance and aggression are rewarded. Negotiating and other nonviolent solutions are OFTEN not options. Women are often portrayed as weaker characters that are helpless or sexually provocative, is this the kind of stuff you want a small child playing?"	CON	300
300	Se20430a8-A3ffb742	Video games are not bad	If anything, parents need to be educated that video games could be bad when in the wrong hands. if they are passive about it, then there is a chance of bad things to happen. good debate.	CON	301
301	S60e33950-Adfae913a	Video Games Are Too Violent	"May I start by pointing out that humans will always have the urge for violence since the dawn of time. I'm a strong believer that video games are providing a peaceful way of letting out this violent intent within all people. In fact, today's murder rates are at an all time low. May I also ask that you provide citation to the quotes you use? You seem to use rather extreme examples in quoting children that wish to express their violence in real life, but I'm not sure where you have gathered such quotes. Also, as far as I'm aware there has been no scientifically PROVEN link between the playing of video games and violence in later life. Lets be honest, the same issue has been raised for a number of cultural developments such as Rock music and mobile phones. Today most people wouldn't consider these as ""violence-inducing"". I think that video game violence is used as a cover up too often to mask wider issues of mental health care and ingrained mental attitudes towards the glorification of violence. To conclude, every age has its psycopaths and every age has its entertainment... they are NOT the same thing."	CON	302
302	Se4cd6b8-Ac3f5ad49	violent video games	i think playing violent video games can cause brain damage and they do nat spend time there family.they also can start fight in school	CON	303
303	S43993ce5-A54ae1ee3	Video Games Can Be A Sport	In this debate, we will discuss if video games have the verifications of a sport. And wether if it should be allowed to the people to consider it a sport.	PRO	304
304	S4da27ee5-Aa50e28a0	Video Games are not a sport	amuse oneself or play in a lively, energetic way this is another definition of sport, video games do all of this BOOM goes the dynamite -Maddie Roonie	CON	305
305	S6a618e4b-Aa54c1f32	Video Games Are Causing Violence In Children	"Thanks Con, For the following reasons Voters should vote for Pro. I have proven that Cons statements, "" Therefor, if a child does cause harm, the parents are the ones to be to blame as they bought the game for their child and are responsible for the outcomes of what happens to their child."" That this is not true. I have shown that Video Games are Directly influencing kids, and not the parents buying them. This Refutes Cons 1st Contention ""Parents are Disregarding the Game"" Also I have shown proven evidence that kids who have played video games with violence have shown a increase in violence and aggression in real life. This Refutes, Cons 3rd contention ""No Sufficient Studies"" http://videogames.procon.org... I have shown that we can directly relate events to other events. Adam Lanza had previously played game where he controls a character that enters a school and shoots everyone. --- We can directly relate this to the Sandyhook shooting. (Video Games to Violence) Just as Con said in his opening argument "" It just doesn't relate"" --- BUT IT DOES. I said the following Quote to Con in my last argument. ""Now, I wish for my opponent to provide a piece of evidence that EXPLICITLY SAYS there is NO WAY Adam Lanza, could've been influenced by video games to commit this horrendous crime."" He has failed to do so. So his statement "" That means that my opponents arguments (as of right now) are completely invalid."" is actually Fasle. I have given proof that Video Games are Relating to Violence amongst kids. Cons Statement - ""Please vote con as his case is contradictory and holds no ground in this debate, he is completely contradictory of himself, and has failed to attack my second and third contention."" Is ENTIRELY FALSE. I have attacked his 3rd contention via --- http://videogames.procon.org... , and how can I Refute a Philosophy, that is the most proven and undoubtedly true Philosophy ever! That is like trying to debate that Water isn't a Liquid! I will not try and dispute Common sense, but my opponent is. Voters, please, make your own decisions, but please keep in mind that Con has showed no evidence to attack my studies, that DO SAY that violence has increased amongst students because of video games, and realize that we as Humans can make relations from events to other events, via the evidence I HAVE SHOWN. In this case, Video Games to Violence. So, Vote Con. I would like to personally thanking con for bringing up a good debate."	PRO	306
306	Se927395d-A1d2cd330	Video games can actually be beneficial	"The burden of proof is entirely on my opponent to uphold the resolution. If he can't do this without reasonable doubt, the debate goes to me. My opponent still wants you to believe that I'm playing semantics. I'll refer back to the resolution. Full resolution: ""Video games can actually be beneficial"" Actually: """"1. as the truth or facts of a situation; really."""" My opponent points out that this can be converted to ""Video games can truthfully/factually be beneficial"" My argument is that nothing can be truthfully or factually beneficial unless humanity has objective purpose. If humanity cannot be shown to have objective purpose as a logical possibility, whatever is ""beneficial"" is entirely subjective and cannot be predicated on actuality, truth, or facts. Therefore it's logically impossible to assert that video games can actually (really, truthfully, factually) be beneficial if there is no such thing as actual, true, or factual benefit. ""First, fact means ""something that actually exists; reality; truth"".(1) Since empirics show us what actually is within the real world, it""s a display of something that actually exists. This is sufficient to meet his standard of factually beneficial."" That's the problem - it is logically impossible for something to have factual benefit if there really isn't such a thing. If humanity exists for no reason, nothing could be actually, truly, or factually beneficial for a human to play video games. What can truly or factually benefit something that exists for no reason and for no purpose? Second, true means ""being in accordance with the actual state or conditions; conforming to reality or fact; not false"".(2) Empirics are sufficient to meet this because they show you exactly what""s happening within the real world, i.e. reality. Nothing could empirically prove that video games can have actual benefit if the data is meaningless (shows it to be factually beneficial to what end?) My opponent says that ""our subjective values and beliefs are always capable of being wrong"" and "" Even if we aren""t aware of our objective purpose in life, that doesn""t mean that there isn""t an objective purpose in life. First, subjective values and beliefs cannot actually be wrong if all values and beliefs are subjective. In order to show that subjective values and beliefs are actually wrong, there must be an objective standard to measure the wrongness of this against. Second, I argued that my opponent must show that humanity having objective purpose is logically possible in order to show that video games can *actually* be beneficial. I stated this in R1: ""The burden of proof rests on opponent so he must show that objective purpose for the human race is logically possible in order to show that video games can *actually* be beneficial."" Moving the Goalposts My opponent says that the acceptance of my rebuttal depends on whether or not you buy the argument that humanity has objective purpose. This is false because in order for video games to *even possibly* have actual, true, or factual benefit, something factually, truly, or actually beneficial must exist. If humanity exists for no reason (has no objective purpose) the possibility of actual, true, or factual benefit is logically impossible. My opponent cannot show objectivity using empirical data - this just shows consensus. If humanity exists for no reason (has no objective purpose) the possibility of actual, true, or factual benefit is logically impossible. The full resolution states: ""Video games can actually be beneficial"". Thus, this is what my opponent had to uphold with his burden of proof. Since he has not given any argument for logical possibility of humans having objective purpose, his resolution cannot be upheld. Since he has not met his BoP, the debate goes to me by default."	CON	307
307	Se62711e-A1c072e05	Video Games do not Cause Violence	"Since you had no arguments to rebuttal, I will not rebuttal in order to create a fair debate. This round will be separated into 3 main sections: Definitions Explantions Contentions Conclusion sources Definitions Violence: ""Behaviour involving physical force intended to hurt, damage, or kill someone or something"" [1] Videogame: ""A game played by electronically manipulating images produced by a computer program on a monitor or other display."" [2] Influence: ""The capacity to have an effect on the character, development, or behaviour of someone or something, or the effect itself""[3] Cause: ""A person or thing that gives rise to an action, phenomenon, or condition"" Explanations Because of the vagueness of this debate, we need to further understand how to distinguish ""causing violence"" from ""influencing violence"". This debate is if videogames cause violence, not if they influence violence. So influencing is when you have and effect on someone, whereas causing is when you give rise to an action. So let us give examples. If you were to influence, or convince someone to eat a strip of bacon, it would be influence. However if someone punches someone else because they were fighting for the strip of bacon, the bacon caused the punch. The reason I explainened this is because it will have a great effect on this debate, and both our further contentions. Contentions Everything can cause violence How video games cause violence Video games can be used to hurt people So I have 3 main contentions for this round, to save other contentions for the later rounds. To begin, I would like to explain how the debate topic is "" Video Games do not Cause Violence"". So if 1 person creates violence due to a video game, it still means that video games cause violence. Anyway, to get back to the point of this contention, everything can cause violence. A hand can cause violence, a book can cause violence, anything. Video games are not exceptions. Once I punched my cousin because I was mad at my video game. The video game was the cause of me punching my cousin, therefore the videogame caused violence. So videogames do cause violence. Now to get into further understanding, I will explain other ways on how video games cause violence. Well as we all know, humans learn the most when they are children. 32% of gamers are children, which is quite a large number. [5] Children learn alot from what is around them, and media is included in such. Anything they see can be the cause of their aggresion. So if they are in the perspective of some guy who kills thousands of people, they will be feeling the same way, and cause violence. These video games can be the cause of violence, so videogames cause violence, and also influence violence. Now for my last argument, let us imagine such a scenario. With 7 billion people on earth, with the number rising, the odd of such a scenario occuring is quite possible. [6] So basically, if let's say a person get's mad at someone for winning a video game, and starts being aggresive, they may want to hurt someone. So if someone was to pick up the video game, and slap it into someone's face, it would be violence. Violence caused by the videogame. So the videogames caused violence. Conclusion In conclusion, in some scenarios, videogames cause violence. So I pretty much already proved my point. Sources: 1.http://www.oxforddictionaries.com... 2.http://www.oxforddictionaries.com... 3.http://www.oxforddictionaries.com... 4.http://www.oxforddictionaries.com... 5.http://www.theesa.com... 6.http://www.worldometers.info..."	CON	308
308	Se81dfba3-Ab8659403	Video Games increase child violence	"Thank you for the debate, I look forward to a fun and interesting one. Now my argument: Example 1: A diagnostic study of more than 1,000 teenagers took place in Poland between 2011 and 2012, aimed at measuring the impact of computer games on young people. Researchers said the results showed that there was a strong link between young people who played games on a regular basis with an inability to control emotions, increased isolation from friends and higher incidences of aggression Source: (http://www.irishtimes.com...) Example 2: In a study led by Gentile, Lynch, Lander & Walsh in 2004, the authors also stated that teens who play violent video games for extended periods of time: tend to be more aggressive, are more prone to confrontation with their teachers and increased incidences of fights with their peers. Source (http://drdouglas.org...) Example 3: There is empherical data showing that video games increase violence among children in the book ""Violent Video Game Effects On Children And Adolescents"" Source: Polman, J., Orobio de Castro, B. & Van Aken, M. (2008). Experimental study of the differential effects of playing versus watching violent video games on children's aggressive behavior. Aggressive Behavior, 34(3), 256-264. I feel that these examples show solid fact that there is a definite link to video games increasing violence among children. I look forward to your response."	PRO	309
309	S8db68a9b-Adbd2f58d	Video games encourage violent behavior	"Thank you for this debate. We agree that video games although they are not the only cause of violence, they are a cause. Since exposure to the flashing screen is always present in the video games, playing video games leads to violence. I think it would be safe for anyone to infer fro your information that playing video games for more than three hours a day would cause an increase in behavioural problems. Because your statment only focuses on 5-7 year olds there is no way to know whether it only affects children of that age or if it affects children of that age the least meaing there is a significant increase of behavour problems in children age 8-11 which isn't shown. I don't believe that your arguments follow. that just because a part of these videos are fake that all of them are fake. The audio of kids playing xbox should be enough to prove the increased violent behavior. It ought to be concern to everyone who hears the amount of ""I'm going to kill you,"" and you suck at life type comments. If someone talked to me on the phone like that, I'd call the police. However, this behavior seems all to commonplace in the virtual world. Sadly it carries over into the real world and thats one of the points of the study you first posted. At the end of this debate, There is this conclusion. Video games are not the only encouragement of violent behavior. My opponent provides evidence that they are a method of encouragement for violent behavior even though his stance claims that cracked (a dirty european fluff magazine) is more credible than a study vetted and published by a leading college. Cracked doesn't even include sources. Because my opponent provided the study that he wanted to debate, my burdon of proof was to provide social evidence of the behavior in question which I did. My opponents burdon of proof was not to prove that other factors also encourage violent behavior in children. It was to prove that vidoe games are not a factor which he failed to do."	PRO	310
310	Sdb09cefc-A735faf3d	Video Games should be banned for people 18 and younger	"Topic: Video Games Should be Banned for People Under 18. Stance "" Con *Con""s case revolves around the interpretation that this topic applies to the USA. Argument I first want to thank my opponent for issuing this challenge. This is a topic that I have a personal passion about. To keep with the parameters of the debate, my R2 will only be the Argument for Con. My rebuttal to Pro""s R2 Argument will be in R3. Definitions Video Games "" Any various interactive games played using a specialized electronic gaming device and a television, or other display screen, along with a means to control graphic imagery. Banned "" To prohibit, forbid, or bar by law; interdiction. People under 18 years old "" Applying to US citizens in identifying the ""age of voting"" as the social ""rite of passage into adulthood recognized by law."" For clarity, I will offer the outline for my case ""Parental Responsibilities ""Protecting Civil Liberties ""Higher Learning Opportunities, Job Placement, and Military Service through Video Games ""Video Game Addiction as a Symptom, Not Root Cause ""Driving Age is 16 "" Voting/Military Service/Smoking is 18 "" Drinking is 21 (I)I believe this may come down to be the core issue that surrounds this debate "" the role and responsibility of parents. More importantly to that point is the significance of the ""parent/child dynamic."" Issuing a ban on anything is only limited to the individual decision of what the law recognizes as ""legally able"" to obtain restricted items. I would like to point to the underage smoking and drinking statistics as a parallel argument to support the stance that ""banning an item from people under 18 does not stop people from under 18 from legally obtaining said item."" If there is to be a restriction from people under 18 to play video games, it will ultimately come down to the parent""s decision on whether their kid will/won""t play. Parents do have legally protected rights in deciding the way their child will be raised, and in many states (pertaining to alcohol) the consumption of alcohol is permitted by law if the parent is ""in direct, not obstructed, supervision and presence of the minor."" With this, the parent also bears the responsibility of consequence of their actions. If you look at the current prescription drug problems and see that the root cause isn""t children obtaining medication from the streets, but rather from their parents. Everything under the roof of the parent is the parent""s responsibility. So, to begin this argument "" A ban will do nothing since the decision to play video games under 18 is a protected parenting right. To double, a ban can be argued as ""unconstitutional"" as I will further elaborate later. Labels and restrictions currently exist "" just the same at movies, music, tv shows, and various forms of entertainment. Regulations already currently exist "" it is up to the Parent/Guardian to adhere to the ratings system and make the best decision (they feel) there is to make on the matter. (II)The second observation is that of the civil liberties of: artists, developers, minors, and citizenship (in general) must be protected. For artists and developers there is the freedom of speech and media. To issue a ban on video games is to directly ban a form of recognized Art "" which, in turn, infringes on the freedom of speech and media (1st amendment) of those creating video games. There are ""unalienable rights given by their Creator"" that are also in need of defense for this case. Even if you are under 18, you are still recognized as a US citizen. ""Among these rights are: life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness."" As the Con, I would like to argue that removing video games removes a viable outlet for an American citizen to ""pursue happiness."" Along with ""liberty"" Con is attempting to protect the freedom of choice for US citizens with what they consume. Pro""s argument that video games threaten ""life"" will be dispelled during rebuttal. A person under the age of 18 should be allowed the same protected freedoms that exist in ""channel surfing"" tv shows in playing video games. WHAT video game they choose to expose themselves to is a liberty each free citizen is entitled to have. We are all responsible for the choices we make "" and must be allowed to make our own choices, protected by law. Personal tastes in ""satisfaction"" does not allow for an ""absolute solution"" through restriction. The solution is freedom, the American ideology. (III)To elaborate a main point for my case I would like to state that in today""s world, video games have opened an entire industry, and with that countless opportunities. There are numerous accredited schools of higher learning that are currently recruiting and educating gamers on: game development, graphic arts, coding, programming, and even alpha/beta testing. There are recognized degrees that can be earned through the video game platform. Playing video games now provides the youth an opportunity that never existed years previous "" to attain a college scholarship and degree through video games. The workforce is in demand for video gamers as well. We see the ever-increasing usage of automation in the workforce, and the need for people with sharpened ""digital skills"" are in the highest need ever. If we apply the same training methodology in the workforce then it can only be suggested that for a person to ""better their prospects in a digital workforce"" is to have as much practical experience in the digital world to grow those skills. The sooner the exposure, the greater the probability of higher skill than the labor pool compared to those who weren""t exposed as soon. We see this with specialization in the sports world as well. This is the method of job placement we utilized "" gaining experience is so vital, and in today""s world, video games are providing practical experience for many in-demand jobs. Another observation to this point is that of the active military recruitment for advanced video gamers: mainly to fly drones. The ""ways of war"" have evolved into the unmanned/digital warfare age. Opportunities for people to serve their country have directly opened for video gamers "" specifically that of ""translatable skills video games provide to fly drones with greater precision than those who did not play video games growing up."" I can argue that our national security is currently seeking/depending on gamers to populate the military force in the future. The last observation on this point is that video games are currently being adopted into learning institutions as we speak. More and more schools are looking for ways to engage the students and for the information to ""stick"" "" video games have been identified as a great ""tool for learning."" Whether it is typing, data entry, graphic designs, software applications, digital performances, retaining attention, more opportunities to practice, instant feedback on errors, etc""Schools across the country have noticed the value of influence video games possess and implemented their usage within their curriculum. (IV)To offer another point I would like to identify that the main problem identified by Pro is that of ""video game addiction."" I would like to state that video game addiction is not the root cause of ""problematic behavior"" but rather a ""symptom."" Of the examples listed from the psychologytoday.com source Con would like to argue that: the root cause to the deviant behavior is more likely to exist in the personal relationship the child has with the parent. Traumatic events (like that of divorce/separation) are identified as a more severe root cause to a child""s behavior and social assimilation. Video game addiction is nothing more than another symptom of a greater underlying problem existing in the individual "" it is not the root cause. Con is arguing that by banning video games we are misdirected in working on the real issue that is causing the detrimental behavior in children, thus never truly ""fixing"" the real problem. Video games are nothing more than an outlet "" a personal entertainment device "" to the user. The contents of each game are novel to other games and thus the entire industry would be unfairly punished over the contents of a small percentage of what can be identified as ""a problem for kids to play."" Effects from video gaming are not 100% negative and I would like to argue that for every ""bad"" there is a ""good"" to balance. Hand-eye coordination, self-esteem growth, measurable academic improvement, increase in online social presence (which is important in today""s working world), and in some studies, it also leads to a decrease in crime. Con will not argue that there are only ""good benefits"" to playing video games "" but I would like to exude the thought of that of "" ""Screen Addiction"" (ancillary argument) The most measured impact on the physical nature of gamers is that of ""screen exposure."" This isn""t a ""video game problem"" as video games are consoles "" this is a problem with the manufacturing of what we call ""smart screens"" and the intense displays of LED lighting. Turning off the video game to watch TV does not provide time to heal, it is the same lighting impacting the eyes. Studies have proven that ""screen addiction"" exists in children and adults and that the compulsion to stare at LED screens (via phone, tv, computer screens) are the cause of ""distraction, eye damage, and sleeplessness."" If Pro would like to correct a ""root cause"" to a problem "" Con would like to suggest the energy be focused on the constant factors that video games must adhere to be ""played."" That may be where your problem with video game addiction exists. (V)My final point will be that of current statue age restrictions compared to applying a video game ban to persons under 18. Driving, in the US, is legally obtainable at the age of 16. The statistics of deaths of people under 18 related to driving is staggering""and on the rise. The need to drive outweighs the risks, however the dangers are not reduced. We are actively placing people on the road facing the real possibility of dying before they are 18. To do this the person must display competence and skill in driving. Even with all these restrictions, driving accidents and deaths are not being decreased "" they are on the rise. Along with the hypocrisy of banning video games until a person is 18 compared to what is legally allowable by law would compromise citizens 16 years old from using a cell phone "" yet permitted to drive. Video games are not limited to a single console, and the video game industry (like all industries) strives to reach newer and more people to participate. What constitutes a ""video game"" currently exists with each person""s cell phone. How are we to punish a person more severely for ""playing a video game"" compared to the life and death moments driving offers? A game over/death in video game can be restarted""not so much with human life "" regardless of age. If we are to state that people under 18 cannot handle the influence of video games, Con would like to argue that by this standard we should restructure the age of driving in harmony with the danger associated with usage. Smoking and Drinking are directly related to many unnatural deaths; thus, the age restrictions are placed (18 and 21 respectively). The number of people killed from driving would suggest that the age of driving be greater than that of drinking "" and the number of deaths directly attributed to video games (to receive a ban) would raise the age of smoking/drinking ten-fold (if we are to have proportion in our legal restrictions.) Keep in mind that what you are arguing is that a person is not responsible or able to handle video games until they reach the age in which they can Vote and join the Military. The age ban has always been a key concept in increasing life expectancy. In Closing Placing a ban on video games is: unconstitutional, disproportionate, misguided, detrimental to the economy, limiting the future potential of citizen""s contribution to our society, and cannot be viewed as anything other than ""Wrong."" The consequences of removing video game access to people under 18 can only be detrimental to the social development of our youth in assimilating (plus contributing) to our evolving culture. The world of the youth is digital "" to remove this from the youth can be equated to ""burning books"" to limit information/experience. America is the ""land of the free"" "" freedom is scary. Our social solutions and reasonings why we have age restrictions to begin with do not apply to this argument. Video games are quite simply "" and entertainment TOOL. Tools do not do anything other than what the person using the tool decides. People are responsible for their decisions and consequences "" but please, for the sake of video games, do not conclude that only negative things exists in the world of ""video gamers"" "" it is an ever-growing industry that continues to gain legitimacy in our culture and develops a newer ""type"" of citizen that is now more well-equipped to handle the demands of our evolving society. Sources ""Military Recruits Video Gamers (www.cbsnews.com/news/army-recruits-video-gamers/) ""Schools Adopting Video Games to Teach (www.usnews.com/education/high-schools/articles/2011/11/01/high-school-teachers-make-gaming-academic) ""Role of Parenting in Child Development (www.pediatrics.aappublications.org/content/104/Supplement_1/164) ""57 Schools Offering Video Game Degrees (www.successfulstudent.org/best-video-game-colleges) ""Colleges Offering Video Game Degrees (www.foxnews.com/story/2005/11/07/colleges-offering-video-game-degrees.html) ""The Business of Video Games: A Multi-Billion Dollar Industry (https://www.forbes.com...) ""Cognitive Benefits of Playing Video Games (www.psychologytoday.com/blog/freedom-learn/201502/cognitive-benefits-playing-video-games)"	CON	311
311	S7d4cf2e8-A6399b90	are video games better than board games	I think video games because you don't have to play with at least two people	PRO	312
312	S2f5f5fc2-A168071de	Video Games Cause Bad Behavior	"Thanks again to my opponent, Con for his views and an informative debate. My opponent has taken the liberty to introduce other sources of entertainment to show how they too have been in the past accused of ""making people do crazy things."" Pro- posted; ""I shall bring up Ozzy Osbourne. His music that teens listened to made them kill themselves. The parents tried to sue him, but get this a court defended him and not just any court THE SUPREME COURT. The highest court authority is defending a man whose music made children kill themselves but was it truly the music that made them kill themselves? No"" This is known as a ""red herring"" AND also as an ""appeal to authority"" fallacy. [1] Ozzy Osbourne's music is not interactive; video games are. The courts may have ruled in Ozzy Osborne's favor but that does not in itself prove that his music had no effect. The authority of the courts in a ""music causes bad behavior"" case is not an immediate and undeniable expert in a case regarding video games and their influences. As a person who has written a couple songs for himself, I find the claim that an artist would craft a song and get it marketed with the deliberate intent of it having NO effect on the listeners at all. Do the words and messages in a song not have any meaning at all? Why would the artist bother to put any thought into their lyrics at all, if there is no desire to affect the listener? If Con will acknowledge that there is a certain amount of intent by the song writers to have an effect on the listeners, then it becomes germaine to the discussion to examine what the lyrics are and what message they convey. Likewise for the video games. My opponent (Con) continued; ""It takes a very weak mind to not being able to stop yourself from taking a gun and high-jacking a car and going on a rampage. Games themselves may, how would I say this, ""influence"" the actions some kids may take but who is it actually doing these actions?"" It is to Con's credit that he is NOT of a weak mind and that he can play games and either not be influenced at all, or keep the ""influences"" under control. However, this debate is not an indictment on my opponent. This debate is about whether or not ""video games cause bad behavior,"" period. Con just has pretty much acknowledged that for some (weak minded) people... the games do have an ""influence."" The definition for the word Influence is; 1. The capacity or power of persons or things to be a compelling force on or produce effects on the actions, behavior, opinions, etc., of others:[2] Influence is indeed the very means by which video games can and do ""Cause Bad Behavior"" in some people. With the hopes of keeping this response short, I have elected to end my closing argument with the above. Pro goes on to ask several more questions regarding parenting, other causes for bad behavior etc. But those only serve an as appeal to ridicule at worse and fuel for side bar discussions at best. The challenge of this debate was to address the single point of whether or not video games ""cause bad behavior."" It's my hopes that the voters will agree that even Con (though reluctantly) agrees that they ""can."" Please vote PRO if you agree that for some people (weak minded in Con's opinion) the video games do in fact ""influence"" their behavior, thus acknowledging the cause and effect relationship of the games. [1] http://nizkor.org... [2] http://dictionary.reference.com..."	PRO	313
313	Sff9d8103-Ab5b9b0b0	Video games make a positive impact on today's society	Thank you for accepting my debate. Video games do make a positive impact on today's society for many reasons. Video games calm players down. Many studies have shown that video games, even violent ones, can calm people down and make them more relaxed. Many video games have been specifically created to calm people down. A study published in The Journal of Youth and Adolescence shown that a link between violent video games and relaxation exist. Video games are used as an outlet for stress in many people, adults and kids alike. Sources: http://www.webpronews.com..., http://www.cbsnews.com... Video games increase creativity in kids. Studies have also shown that a link between video games and creativity in drawing pictures and such exist. These studies have stated that children who play video games show more creativeness when doing things. Video games have also been shown to increase problem solving skills. Sources: http://psychcentral.com... Sorry about the late response, I was busy all weekend. Good luck!	PRO	314
314	S9a1a8408-Aa930aa05	Video games are a serious art form.	Hello, whomever opponent chooses to reply. In this debate I will be discussing two reasons why I believe video games are not worthy of being called an art form. Firstly, art is one's reaction to life. A masterpiece of rock music is 'Pet Sounds,' and most the songs on the album are about relationships and break-ups. A masterpiece of literature is 'The Great Gatsby,' which was F. Scott Fitzgerald's commentary on the behavior of the rich class. A masterpiece of cinema is '2001: A Space Odyssey,' in which Stanley Kubrick warned us about the risks of AI becoming more and more advanced. Nothing produced within the video game industry is comparable to any of these. Some have really innovative visuals, but even the best video games very rarely have themes or commentary on society. 2. Video games do not influence art forms. We have seen music influence music (The Beatles' influence on pop). We have also seen movies influence albums (effect of the movie 'American Gangster' on Jay-Z's album of the same name). We have even seen novels influence music, and vice versa. But rarely, if ever, will you see an author, film director, or musician cite a video game as an influence for any of their works.	CON	315
315	S3b7f3588-A92e1a367	The Way video games are demonized in the news	Well games aren't at all making killing glamorized all publishers and developers all just want to give the player an enjoyable experience and not to make killing look good and on top of that reason games exist is to have these power fantasy's that can't and shouldn't be done in real life and I've played video games since I was 5 and I have never came with intent of hurting someone because I don't have a weak mind most people don't let video games change them but I do agree with you on the fact the news doesn't matter but the more the news says something to more idiots believe it and the more strikes and anti-gaming groups get started. Games are meant as entertainment not to make you think killing is fun :/	CON	316
316	S8a9f614c-A7765656d	should violent video games be banned.	"To start off, I would like to resolve an issue that I knew would be a problem even before this debate started. Noting the comments, you can see that people are already siding with CON on this topic mainly because they play violent video games also. Yes they're fun, I personally enjoy such video games. I am only discouraging violent video games for the practice in future debates and for this school project I'm doing right now. I know a fair amount of people in my school who play them also. I would like to ask those of you judging and voting, to vote based on how we debate rather than your own biased opinion. This for a school project and I really appreciate it. Thanks! With that cleared up, I would like to address his argument he made then move on from there. My opponent stated: “stores take precautions for selling games to young minds."" In response to this, I would like to state that my opponent’s arguments have no ground to stand on. there are tons of arguments out on the Internet to attack our case so far, we haven't seen any attacks on our arguments yet. His arguments are based entirely on personal views of what he thinks. im basically saying that i would like you to challenge me a bit more. To debate, you need evidence which have provided. So yes, there are warning on the back of the case and the choice is yours. But often times those warnings are ignored. How old is the average high schooler? 13-16 right? Rarely are they ever 17 until they are seniors. Most violent video games are rated M for Mature 17+. So the warnings are being ignored. People are purchasing violent video games at younger and younger ages. I was at the redbox just last week when I saw probably a 11 year old renting Black Ops 2, a rated M game. Thirteen years ago (2000) was the low point: 85% of minors were able to purchase an M-rated game. So warnings being ignored results in children being exposed to violence at a much younger age. With buying and renting violent video games being easier and easier to get, we need to see that not only are the children of our generation suffering from it, but violence is rising because of it and I will go into that in my next argument. About 90 percent of U.S. kids ages 8 to 16 play video games, and they spend about 13 hours a week doing so (more if you're a boy). Now a new study suggests virtual violence in these games may make kids more aggressive in real life. Kids in both the U.S. and Japan who reported playing lots of violent video games had more aggressive behavior months later than their peers who did not, according to the study, which appears in the November issue of the journal Pediatric. ""It's not the violence per se that's the problem, it's the context and goals of the violence,"" said Olson, citing past research on TV violence and behavior. Olson is right. Imagine the goals of he violence. Rewards for killing people, shooting people, and doing drugs? In most games you are rewarded with money or points the more you kill. So in a game, the more you kill, the better you do. Do we really want youngsters being exposed to this? No, We don’t. For my opponents first attack, he said that playing violent video games sharpens your skills in the military. First off, no it doesn’t. Video games support you to rush into a situation and be a “Hero”. Imagine doing such in a real life scenario. In all actuality, if you catch a bullet in real life, your down and its basically a real life ‘Game Over.’ No respawn or second chance. So sharpening your skills for real life situations? Not one bit. His second argument he made was that young minds cannot purchase violent games. Ive already proved otherwise and all my arguments still stand seeing how no attacks have been made. Credibility: http://www.cnn.com... http://videogames.procon.org... http://www.drphil.com..."	PRO	317
317	Se81dfba3-Ade055b8b	Video Games increase child violence	"Where do my sources say that the experiments conducted were done using EEG? However if they were all EEG experiments then that is still showing a positive correlation between violence and video games. My opponent claims that scientists say that no link can be drawn from EEG tests yet he fails to back up this statement. He gives a reference that shows the statistics of video game spending versus gun related murders and video game consumption. I would like to point out that this statistic is very invalid to this debate for many reasons: 1. It just deals with gun related deaths as opposed to every other form of violence. 2. What child has access to a gun? Remember we are solely dealing with children 3. The population, size and laws of every country is vastly different e.g United States already has a massive chance of having more gun related murders over the Netherlands for example as there is a difference of about 295 million in population. Also guns are much more accessible in the US This cannot possibly be an accurate statistical argument for this debate. You keep saying that scientists will tell me that there is no link between violence and video games but you show absolutely no example of this. I have shown plenty of examples for my contrary motion. I found it very humorous that my opponent asks ""If you are the guys that think that school shootings are directly linked to kids' exposure to violent video games, I'm sorry, but this is 2013 and you should be informed better"" yet included gun related murders as a statistical source. You are the one that brought up gun violence my friend, not me. My opponent lists a source that claims to know all the causes of youth violence and he is basically saying that because video games is not on the list then it doesn't increase child violence. Therefore according to the list and my opponent, the only causes of child violence must be what the list says: Home environment, depression, stress and anxiety, weapons, media, peers, learning difficulties/health problems, lack of guidance and attention seeking. Although I don't discount that these cause child violence, it would be foolish to think that this is a definitive list. I have shown multiple examples of the positive connection between video games and increased violence. Again the graph that my opponent shows solely deals with gun-related violence and I have shown the problems with this argument. My opponent tries to argue that in America crime happens all the time but countries like Germany and France have way more video game sales yet crime rates are lower. Again I reiterate that my opponent can not speak on behalf of crime rates from the graph, just gun related murders. It is a completely invalid argument. So yes I don't think you have tried to make a strong case for your stance. Only this time your attempted refutes stem from invalid arguments. Yes you did mislead my argument. I said ""teens who play violent video games for extended periods of time: tend to be more aggressive, are more prone to confrontation with their teachers"". You turned this into ""people who play violent video games don't do well at school and are more prone to get into an argument with a teacher"". Total manipulation. You say ""I think you are starting to realize the absurdity of your claims or you are just posting sources without reading them properly."" Again I laugh at the fact that my opponent tries to make a claim that my cited references are more absurd than his totally non-cited references. He tries to say this multiple times during the debate. Why do you not accept my sources as evidence? You say they have insufficient evidence? Let me get this straight, you can call my sourced claims insufficient but I'm supposed to accept your totally non-sourced claims? On what basis? There is absolutely no basis for me to accept them. I can however refute them. You try to refute my Example 1 experiment by saying that (1) a 12 year-old can be a researcher, (2) that they don't show the way they measured it and (3) that they probably just polled some kids and made a conclusion. Well, (1) unless you think that a 12 year old can research a diagnostic study of more than 1,000 teenagers then I think we can rule that out. (2) They showed it was the result of a survey (1000 kids to get a fair, random and accurate result). (3) Again, they showed it was the result of a survey (1000 kids to get a fair, random and accurate result). I didn't skip your question, I just felt it did not need an answer as it does nothing to enhance your argument. Example 1 of my round 2 argument holds a 1000 child survey. Unless all 1000 of those children were more prone to violence than their peers I think we can rule that one out. In your Dylan Klebold and Eric Harris paragraph you say the confusing sentence that ""These people did not see something on a video game, so they said they should try it out on Monday at school."" I am having trouble trying to comprehend this sentence, as there is an apparent contradiction in it. However if you are trying to say that that they did not cause the murders as a result of video games then obviously that is very likely but you seem to think that I believe that every act of violence caused by a child/teenager must be because of video games. That is ridiculous of course. One or two people can not speak for everyone, as the case of your argument however 1000 people for example, can speak for a lot more. (My argument). We are slightly getting off topic. Remember the debate is whether or not video games increase violence not whether every act of violence is a result of video games. It is totally invalid to say that Klebold and Harris didn't kill people because of video games so therefore video games can't increase violence. You ask me the question that if I played violent video games then would I shoot a person. Of course I wouldn't but what are you trying to prove? You seem to think that shooting is the only form of violence. I never said anything about shootings in my argument. I only mentioned things such as higher incidences of aggression, more prone to confrontation with their teachers and increased incidences of fights with their peers. I don't know why you are so caught up with just shootings. If you are trying to make the argument that video games doesn't increase violence because there isn't school shootings every week then I'm sorry but that is a seriously flawed argument. In your last paragraph you tell me to check the link that talks about the real main reasons kids become violent. Again this is extremely flawed. If that link did in fact show evidence of the main reasons of child violence (which it doesn't, just opinions) then it would still in no way disprove that video games increase child violence. Again my opponent feels as if I should take his unreferenced claims while he shouldn't take my referenced claims. All in all I feel I have refuted all of my opponents attempts at making a point while at the same time defended my solid sources. With all do respect I don't feel that any of my opponents points were valid or that my opponent really addressed the title of the debate. Having said that, I thank him for the debate and wish him luck."	PRO	318
318	Sa808517c-Ab0f842f8	Violent video games should be banned	violent video games can be beneficial for people other than just developers. games such as assassin's creed can teach history in a more realistic way. games like god of war can teach mythology, and fallout games teach science.	CON	319
319	S2f5f5fc2-A95c4df77	Video Games Cause Bad Behavior	"Thanks to my opponent (Con) for a well worded and thoughtful response and debate. I (Chuz) took the ""Pro"" position and I accepted this challenge, because I believe that video games can and do cause ""bad"" and even ""violent"" behavior in some of the people who play them. As we have four rounds to this debate and I honestly will not need that much time for my own arguments, I would like to ask my opponent (Pro) a couple of simple questions that will set the premise for my position. Please complete the following saying; 1. ""Garbage in equals ___________ out."" 2. ""You are what you ______."" MY opponent answered; ""To answer your questions, Garbage in equals garbage out and You are what you eat."" Thank you. My opponent asked me to list specific games and seems to want to get into the specifics of the ""cause and effect"" aspects of playing violent video games. However, this debate (challenge) was not worded that way. This debate simply said ""Video Games Cause Bad Behavior."" Essentially, either they do or they do not. The news is repeat with incidence where video games HAVE been the root cause of violence in our societies [1] and I believe that when one considers the two questions that I asked my opponent earlier (garbage in = garbage out & you are what you eat) the relationship becomes increasingly clear. And I would like to add one other perspective to be considered. Anyone who follows the Super Bowl in football knows that businesses will spend MILLIONS of dollars for a 30 second spot halftime advertisement during the Super Bowl. Why else would businesses be willing to spend that kind of money, if they didn't think that 30 Second ad would have the result (effect) of enough people buying their product as to make the investment worthwhile. 30 SECONDS. Let's think Logically for a minute; If a 30 second commercial on TV can have the effect of so many people buying a product that they would not otherwise buy,... what sense does it make to hold that the violence and such that a viewer plays an INTERACTIVE role in for HOURS at a time will have absolutely NO affect on that ""viewer"" at all? Obviously, statistically it CAN have an affect and this is evidence by many of the stories found in my search. [1] My observations are made from a logical and realistic perspective. I hope my opponent will not take my observations as a want to further regulate or to ban violent video games. As I am not trying to do so. I am only trying to keep it real. ""Video games CAN cause bad behavior"" Please vote Pro if you agree. [1] http://www.bing.com..."	PRO	320
320	S7b564465-A69219fa3	Should Video Games be less Violent	Video games, in my opinion, show what's reality. According to Huffington Post, there are many researchers and studies of universities all over the world that show that video gaming is actually good for people. Some video games can be steroids for your brain, may make you smarter, may slow the aging process, may help dyslexic kids read better, can be a pain reliever, can improve eyesight, can be as effective as one-on-one counseling, and can help stroke victims more fully recover.	PRO	321
321	Sf2f51256-Af8c07618	Video games cause more harm than good	Thank you for accepting, and i am looking forward to a great debate, and here are my main points to my cause. 1. Video games is a great way to earn money. There are many competitions that involve video gaming, and if you win there is many great prizes to win. There are hundreds of students at university that could use the money from winning at these events. Apart from winning competitions, companies such as EA Games and Valve make millions of dollars for creating video games that are popular in modern society. Video games have become a great part of todays society, and companies use this to their advantage. 2. Video games are a great way to play with your friends. Almost every video game is multiplayer, and there is even a genre of video games that is mainly multiplayer. Mainly multiplayer online video games, or MMO's are extremely popular among teens. Video games can bring people together, and you can have some friendly competitions and challenges to yourself. Achievements enable bragging rights and show your extreme skill. 3. There are many benefits to playing video games. Better Reflexes: Many things happen extremely fast in video games. Playing them helps your quick thinking in your brain. Better Multitasking: Many games have you focus on several things like your health and the enemy, your surroundings etc. Video games also help with stress and the ability to focus on a certain thing. 4. Video games has so much variety There is so much variety, everyone from any age can find something that they enjoy. Not all video games are gory or inappropriate, in fact there is so many to help with your brain, such as Portal 2. There are many games for children of a younger age to go on an adventure with their favorite characters from TV, such as Dora. There is so many consoles that a person could choose from, like Xbox, Playstation, Wii, etc. 5. Video games have started to add exercise. Due to advances in technology, we now have devices such as Kinect for the Xbox, Wii, etc that people can use for extremely fun, fitness. Now we have the technology for it, any age can use these consoles for exercise. There is now many games for exercise that include many different sports and exercise programs.	CON	322
322	S758ea5f9-A1b7bb749	Are Video Games the main cause for Violent Juvenile Crimes	Increasing reports of bullying can be partially attributed to the popularity of violent video games. The 2008 study Grand Theft Childhood reported that 60% of middle school boys who played at least one Mature-rated game hit or beat up someone, compared to 39% of boys that did not play Mature-rated games. [2] Video games often reward players for simulating violence, and thus enhance the learning of violent behaviors. Studies suggest that when violence is rewarded in video games, players exhibit increased aggressive behavior compared to players of video games where violence is punished. [23] Violent video games desensitize players to real-life violence. It is common for victims in video games to disappear off screen when they are killed or for players to have multiple lives. In a 2005 study, violent video game exposure has been linked to reduced P300 amplitudes in the brain, which is associated with desensitization to violence and increases in aggressive behavior. [24] A 2000 FBI report includes playing violent video games in a list of behaviors associated with school shootings. [25] Violent video games teach youth that violence is an acceptable conflict-solving strategy and an appropriate way to achieve one's goals. [26] A 2009 study found that youth who play violent video games have lower belief in the use of nonviolent strategies and are less forgiving than players of nonviolent video games. Violent video games cause players to associate pleasure and happiness with the ability to cause pain in others. [3] Young children are more likely to confuse fantasy violence with real world violence, and without a framework for ethical decision making, they may mimic the actions they see in violent video games. [4] Violent video games require active participation, repetition, and identification with the violent character. With new game controllers allowing more physical interaction, the immersive and interactive characteristics of video games can increase the likelihood of youth violence. [5] Playing violent video games increases aggressive behavior and arousal. [27] A 2009 study found that it takes up to four minutes for the level of aggressive thoughts and feelings in children to return to normal after playing violent video games. It takes five to ten minutes for heart rate and aggressive behavior to return to baseline. Video games that show the most blood generate more aggressive thoughts. When blood is present in video games, there is a measurable increase in arousal and hostility. [28] Playing violent video games causes the development of aggressive behavioral scripts [29]. A behavioral script is developed from the repetition of actions and affects the subconscious mind. An example of a common behavioral script is a driving script that tells drivers to get in a vehicle, put on a seat belt, and turn on the ignition. Similarly, violent video games can lead to scripts that tell youth to respond aggressively in certain situations. Violence in video games may lead to real world violence when scripts are automatically triggered in daily life, such as being nudged in a school hallway. A 1998 study found that 21% of games sampled involved violence against women [23]. Exposure to sexual violence in video games is linked to increases in violence towards women and false attitudes about rape such as that women incite men to rape or that women secretly desire rape. [30] Several studies in both the United States and Japan have shown that, controlling for prior aggression, children who played more violent video games during the beginning of the school year showed more aggression than their peers later in the school year. [31] Exposure to violent video games is linked to lower empathy in players. In a 2004 study of 150 fourth and fifth graders by Professor Jeanne Funk, violent video games were the only type of media associated with lower empathy. Empathy, the ability to understand and enter into another's feelings, plays an important role in the process of moral evaluation and is believed to inhibit aggressive behavior. [32] When youth view violence in video games, they are more likely to fear becoming a victim of acts of violence. According to a 2000 joint statement by six leading national medical associations including the American Medical Association and American Psychological Association, this escalated fear results in youth not trusting others and taking violent self-protective measures. [33] Violent video games can train youth to be killers. The US Marine Corps licensed Doom II in 1996 to create Marine Doom in order to train soldiers. In 2002, the US Army released first-person shooter America's Army to recruit soldiers and prepare recruits for the battlefield.	PRO	323
323	Sa808513e-A2273a76a	Violent video games should be banned	"I am standing for the motion that violent video games and similar games which contain anti-social behavior should be banned. Humans have always (and will always) for multiple scientific reasons find pleasure and joy in the act of violence and whilst I completely acknowledge this fact, Violence in video games has got to stop. There are multiple surveys and scientific evidence that playing violent video games can change the way our minds act and can change our perception of right from wrong. I would like to turn your attention to this source and to Anders Breivik http://www.dailymail.co.uk... The source informs us of how Breivik a Norwegian man quotes he 'played call of duty to prepare himself' to carry out horrendous tasks such as the murder of 77 people. Should the government be allowing the distribution of media which trains of even encourages people to kill? I personally believe that this is outrageous as games developers can be viewed as creating games which provoke and even motivate people to murder. The very idea that people may play these games to prepare themselves to commit serious crime is both ethically and physically wrong. I would also like to invite you to view another source, http://www.independent.co.uk... This source shows that a 23 year old man on his way back from Asda in London (UK) was stabbed and hit with a brick simply so criminals could steal his copy of GTA 5 (Grand Theft Auto 5). GTA 5 (and the other games in the series) all contain stabbings, prostitution, heavy violence, drug abuse and murder. There is strong evidence from Harvard University in the USA to support the concept that by seeing violence, we view it as more acceptable and the fact that this man was stabbed so thugs could steal his copy of the game further supports this point. This raises the question of 'do violent games not only introduce people to violence, but also provoke it'? I would like to finish this round of debate by introducing you to this joint statement from the US institution for mental healthcare and The American Academy of Pediatrics available at www.aap.org: ""People who see a lot of violence are more likely to view violence as an effective way of settling conflicts. People exposed to violence are more likely to assume that acts of violence are acceptable behavior.Viewing violence can lead to emotional desensitization towards violence in real life. It can decrease the likelihood that one will take action on behalf of a victim when violence occurs.' This quote reiterates my previous point that violent video games make people accept violence more and even commit acts of violence in daily life due to these games. I would now like to pass to the Opp of the debate, thank you. Sources: http://www.independent.co.uk... http://www.dailymail.co.uk..."	PRO	324
324	S3e67d226-Ab4f44905	Video games are not a significant factor in mass shootings.	"The link the author put in the NYTIMES states they played video games. Whichs brings it into the fact that video games is something all these men shared. That creates a link to massacres. When a serial killer murders, he has a signature way of doing it. Something in his mind triggers the way he wants to prey on his victims. Same with rapists, they usually go for a certain type of woman may it be single mothers, blonde hair and blue eyes. These are called links. They link these into the investigation process to tell forth if the same person is behind these string of crimes. Why can't we link video games to this? They were all gamers. The only major fact about this is that they were. If they weren't gamers then video games would not be a factor in these massacres. It wouldn't even be acknoledged this vividly that even one might of played video games. Which suggests the fact that video games are a factor. Sandy Hook - If it's not a factor, why is it being discussed. Why would it be premature to start out with video games be the cause, if not in fact video games were not a factor. Why are we investing so much time in video game violence to determine if it is potentially a cause if it isn't even remotely a factor. The link to all the massacres indeed is video games. You want to talk about irrelevant, breathing air and drinking water is really irrevelent to any point being made. Although both could be contaminated and distrought the human mind in ways, 1 person murders someone and can be linked to all murders via he breathes air and the murderer obviously did too. The studies I provided, showed that video games after being played makes teens act out more aggressively. Although not every teen went the same way. Thus proving the fact that video games could be a major factor when coming to these massacres. What's more aggressive behavior than a person that massacred people. The Columbine shooting. http://usatoday30.usatoday.com... ""They weren't goths or loners. ""The two teenagers who killed 13 people and themselves at suburban Denver's Columbine High School 10 years ago next week weren't in the ""Trenchcoat Mafia,"" disaffected videogamers who wore cowboy dusters. The killings ignited a national debate over bullying, but the record now shows Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold hadn't been bullied "" in fact, they had bragged in diaries about picking on freshmen and ""Gay."" "" In this quote I had to change the last part that says gay, the real word in this quote is not allowed in debate because it is a profanity. But the real word is a 3 letter word that starts with the letter 'F' and it was plural so add a 'S' on the end. A three letter word for cigarette. Really, they were being bullied or they were the bullies? They bragged in diaries that they were not being bullied themselves but in fact bullied others. Although it says video games weren't the lead to it, neither was bullying. But this is just one massacre for the record. It also states the fact they weren't addicted to video games which contrasts to other shooting that the guy spent most of his time with violent video games which could link the fact that it played a factor of this. http://www.webmd.com... ""These two studies, plus other research on video game violence ? all point in the same direction,"" researcher Craig A. Anderson, PhD, from Iowa State University, tells WebMD. ""It's a direction that's not unexpected, because the effects of playing violent video games look to be very similar to the effects of lots of exposure to violent TV. Basically, kids who play a lot of violent video games are at risk for becoming more violent people."" Kids who play violent video games are at risk for becoming more violent people. Kids who watch violent TV are more at risk for becoming more violent people. This suggests exposure to violence makes it more of a risk that a person will become more violent. That's why not a lot of parents let their children watch violent tv or play violent video games. So with that being said, video games can't be a factor for violence actions? I know we aren't talking violent actions in general but I ask you what is more violent then a massacre? What is more violent then terriorism? What is more violent then these things? Key factor: They played video games, it's what they are all linked to. May it being not just a fantasy being played out, they could of had the idea for how they did it from a video game. How many gun's can the average person name without using knowledge of a video game. I for one can't name many. But with video games such as Call of Duty and Medal of Honor, I can name a lot. Although I never studied myself to see if I act out more aggressively. The violent video games fills the mind with ideas. How can you successfully shoot and kill your opponent and get better at that via Multi-player shooting games. Another way to tie it. Is that video games are proven to help hand eye coordination. How could they hit so many people without knowing how to use a weapon? I don't see any knowledge that these men in the shootings show that they had real life acknowledgement of using a weapon. But yet they hit people and killed them. That takes accuracy and precision. Where did they learn these techniques? Most likely Violent video games. More specifically, Shooting video games."	CON	325
325	Sf0a808a4-A684591d0	Video-Games Are Beneficial Towards Children	Exactly, finally I meet some people who are not ignorant and refusing to accept video games as a part of daily life. Yes, video games are meant for entertainment; if you want something similar to it that has many obvious benefits, then go use a virtual simulator. In Minecraft, you actually have to not only place blocks, but also move around, change the camera angle, mine for the resources, craft the resources to make the blocks, and other things. With Lego, you only decide how to build - you don't decide how to move the character, you don't decide how to gather the resources necessary to craft them to make it into useful objects, and you don't decide the textures, materials, and color shade. Video games actually can help you develop your literature skills, maybe not to the point of being a scholar if you read actual novels, but still helps nonetheless. Just like how books are made for different audiences, video games are too. The more mature a game is, the more complex language it has for you to read (and more inappropriate, but that is a given). That's why I was able to understand many words that other people my age could not understand when I was 6 after playing Super Smash Bros. and Super Smash Bros. Melee. Like I said before, video games are meant for entertainment. I am just trying to point out the many benefits it has that many are unaware or ignore of because they are ignorant.	PRO	326
326	Sd5c9fd7c-Ad113caf8	Video games do not cause violence`	Hello there, as you can tell by the title, I am going to be debating on whether or not video games cause violence. I think that video games do not cause any violence what so ever and can even benefit you in some ways. There are no specific rules for this debate except for the fact that round one is acceptance.	PRO	327
327	S65056c6e-Ac4aafecc	Video Games is Ruining Society	The argument shall go as follows: 1. Intro (No argument points to be brought up this round) 2. Body/Main Case 3. Cross Examination 4. Conclusion I will be arguing that video games is ruining the people of today.	PRO	328
328	Sc4008d1a-A490bdfe6	Violent Video Games Shouldn't Be Banned	Thank you pro for instigating this debate. I accept. Very briefly- the outline of main argument: Violent video games cause increase in violent actions. The government should protect it's citizens. Thus they should ban violent video games. I ask pro to specify which part(s) of the argument he disagrees with, so I can focus on proving that point in my argument.	CON	329
329	Scfd4c48a-A336f6e60	Video games cause bad behavior.	Lengthy hours in front of gaming, could make it hard for kids to focus in school activities, psychologists said US researcher. 2. Most of the video games on the market today are frightening in what they contain. The level of violence and the subliminal messages that this gives our young adults is scary indeed. Our teenagers these days are surrounded by violent video games and newspapers/news articles that are full of how violent human beings are to each other daily.	PRO	330
330	S8769b9cf-A4896778c	Violent Video games cause desensitization	My opponent will have to prove that video games do not desensitize people to violence. Here are my opening arguements: 1. Predator unmanned drones use remotes shaped like xbox controllers. 2. The army has invested 50 million in making video games to get soldiers used to killing. That's all for now. I will give my opponent time to prepare an arguement. Good luck!	PRO	331
331	S8769b9cf-Ac084a175	Violent Video games cause desensitization	Once again you've provided no support for your claims. It is possible for the military to use video games for training reasons and not be possible that it desensitization towards killing. The virtual reality training allowed by video games creates a possibility at more cost effective training of soldiers. The training is no different than any other simulator, a flight simulator for example. There is no proven correlation between this kind of training and any sort of desensitization when it comes to taking someones life. http://articles.cnn.com...	CON	332
332	Sd672d38d-Abbd4ac4c	Violent Video games should be ban	My arguments are pretty much done. The research shows video games do not cause violence. If anything, TV has conditioned the American public more than anything. America is so crazy that it wont blink an eye if on TV a person is decapitated, but show a naked woman and everyone will freak out. Video games are the least of America's worries.	CON	333
333	S6a618e4b-A39ebfb96	Video Games Are Causing Violence In Children	"Thanks Con for this good topic. The following argument will have: Why Video Games, are Influencing, and Causing Violence amognst kids. Some Rebuttals on what Con had stated. Violent video games are causing children to have the mindset that, it ok to deal with your problem(s), in a anti-social way. The 2008 study Grand Theft Childhood reported that 60% of middle school boys that played at least one Mature-rated game hit or beat up someone, compared to 39% of boys that did not play Mature-rated games. http://videogames.procon.org... Con has stated examples of Violence in Children. ""Many people after the Sandy Hook Shooting blamed violent video games on the shooters behavior because he tended to play them a lot."" ""I myself play a lot of violent video games, assassins creed, black ops, GTA, and others yet feel no compulsion to go and shoot out a super market or stab random people on the street. If a child plays a lot of call of duty, it does not mean that he is going to try and kill someone at school. "" However these occurances are rare as it is. We dont see another replica of the Sandy Hook incident everyday. We dont see kids going out and shooting other people. BUT, the perpitrator, during the Sandy Hook shooting, was mentally ill! So this impared his ability to judge how realistic these games he was player were! So this brings the question -- Could he have thought he could did this no problem? I think YES. Cons argument basically says that Video Games arent causing EXTREME violnece suvch as shootings, and murders. But there are other types of small violence that are coming from video games that just arent making world headlines. Bullying is a type of Violence that is extermely commom amongst kids these days and these game can turn kids INTO bullys. Games are making kids change thier thoughts, on how to deal with small everyday problems. To hit or punch a kid because he mad you mad THATS VIOLENCE. This can be influenced because lets say this kid was playing Battlefield thother day and when he got mad at other player online, he KILLS them. So thought before he hits someone is ""I can kill people in Battlefield or Call of Duty! I can hit this kid"" Its a small form of violence, but it is still violence. Many children playing games such as Call of Duty, Battlefield, and especially GTA, are UNDER THE AGE OF 12. So many of these children are not realizing that in Real Life, you can not just punch someone and run away. You have to answer for what you did. In these games you would never see that. People kill other people, and think like its no big deal. Yes, this will not translate into someone going to shootout a scholl, BUT IT WILL TRASNLATE INTO KIDS COMMITING SAMLL FORMS OF VIOLENCE AMONGST THEMSELVES. Con states: ""Therefor, if a child does cause harm, the parents are the ones to be to blame as they bought the game for their child and are responsible for the outcomes of what happens to their child."" Not true. If a parents buys a violent game for a child, this child will be influenced by THAT GAME. Unless the parents are teaching them that its ok to enflict harm on other people. (Which we all know that hardley ever happens) This game is what made/contributed to making that kid commit violence. Not the parents buying the game."	PRO	334
334	S30a5cf73-A8e28fd32	Video Games do not increase or perpetuate juvenile violence	"As Pro, I am advocating that video games do not increase or perpetuate violence. First Round: Case Presentation Second:Rebuttals Third:Voters 1. Statistics point to the Pro argument According to the FBI in 2009,The arrest rate for juvenile murders has fallen 71.9% between 1995 and 2008. The arrest rate for all juvenile violent crimes has declined 49.3%. In this same period, video game sales have more than quadrupled. The FBI statistics show that video game sales have been on the rise, while all juvenile violent crimes have fallen in the same amount of time. Looking at today's debate, you have to see that Pro shows with this evidence that the claim that video games cause violence is not backed up by reasonable statistics. Therefore, the claim is false. 2.There is no correlation between violence and video games. A 2004 US Secret Service review of previous school-based attacks found that one-eighth of attackers exhibited an interest in violent video games, less than the rate of interest attackers showed in violent books, movies, and writings. The report did not show any link between video games and school based violence. 3. Violent video games can indeed be a healthy outlet. A 2007 study by the Journal of Adolescent Health reported that 45% of boys played video games because ""it helps me get my anger out"" and 62% played because it ""helps me relax."" Those statustics show that children go to video games to give them an escape from the pressures of life around them. Also, video games can provide helpful lessons for the future. They allow people to explore situations like war, violence, and death without real consequences. Overall, statistics show that there is no correlation between video games and juvenile violence. In fact, video games help more than they hurt."	PRO	335
335	S74862f47-A709fe71b	Video games should be censored	Most would argue that they enjoy video games not being censored well, TO BAD! your opinion doesn't mater in a debate were you debate the facts. What good does cussing and violence do? This should be good?	PRO	336
336	Sfb8c8cc0-A38ee54bc	video games are educational	Knowing that the DSR is a sniper rifle is useless. 2. Assassin's Creed is historical fiction. I would argue that a lot of events in Assassin's Creed never happened. Your arguments are not the best. Video Games are entertainment, nothing more, nothing less.	CON	337
337	Sfadd659c-Aa117c959	Are video games corrupting children	I agree that some people children in school do play video games over doing their own homework. However that is completely their choice. I know from experience because I am currently in college taking online course, and right next to me is my PlayStation 4 with destiny in it. I always do my work before playing games. Your argument targets more of the willpower of kids than weather or not the games are corrupting. It would be like saying food is bad because people become obese. Anybody can become addicted to anything. It is a fact of life, and one we cannot avoid as humans. The question is whether or not we as humans can overcome that addiction. Also it is great to be debating with you.	CON	338
338	Sc3b79282-Ab8c5b1cf	are video games good for teens	i know i am average but i am in 8th grade and this is part of my essay. but video game can also expand your imagination like the super hero games i played those a few times.	PRO	339
339	S4846a6c1-A635dd4e7	Movies are better than video games	I will be arguing that movies are superior as a medium of art, storytelling, and entertainment to video games. I will be also be naming and explaining specific examples of films that I see as better than any game in history. Con must defend video games as the greater form of entertainment, and should also have examples at the ready.	PRO	340
340	S185c50aa-A9643e2d2	Are Video Games A Sport	The definition of sport from Merriam Webster's dictionary is to play in a happy and lively way. Well you play video games, and you are playing sometimes intense depending on the game, and gamers are always happy when they play unless it is a game they do not like.	PRO	341
341	Se20430a8-A7c15e22e	Video games are not bad	Good Argument. The thing is though, and I realize that it can't make killers, video games could trigger killers. It could be the one thing a messed up kid needs to play, to make him want to go out and kill.	CON	342
342	S9b628f42-A7e3c5f34	Homework is better than video games	"Now let me further explain what I mean. See, I didn't say 100% of people who play video games will be addicted. Yes, For a child, His or her parents have the responsibility to stop the child from being addicted. But 99% is not successful (which I will continue the disadvantages later). And why did you think people can be addicted to doing homework? If others give you stress you are not going to be fond of it! While you are happily playing your beloved video games, Have you thought of the long-term effects? You might say that you are not addicted to the games, But I've just said, 99% of parents are unable to stop their child. If you are an adult, Well, The case is much worse as you aren't supervised by anyone and you can easily get yourself addicted! You said the game puts you into a whole new world. See? That makes it easy to let you forget your realistic side and cause you to become an addict! You also pointed out that video games do not cause stress. Well, Mentally, Yes, But it does cause physical stress. I""m not saying I""m a doctor or anything, But health is a person""s must. Also, I am no parent. What do you think about my argument? Your turn."	PRO	343
343	S2b189cdf-A34adff70	there should be less violence in video games	"If I am actually right about what it means though, i may have to make it clear that this is not sarcasm nor a cruel jab, i honestly don't know if i know what that phrase means by now. I've only seen it used a few times, and half of the times i used it, it was ignored, so what do I know? Anyways, since i already made an argument in my last debate, i find no purpose in reinventing the wheel. I shall copy and paste my previous arguments below: 1:Gaming as a medium of art Modern gaming has a tendancy of pandering towards a teenage audience: using violence and sex to win over the audience they want (see section 3). The problem with this is that it prevents people from taking gaming seriously. No one wants to accept gaming as an art form, no one believes that games can convey emotion or messages, and no one believes that ""mature"", in reference to video games, can mean anything other than a rating. I am saying this as a teenage male gamer: games should stop trying to put people like me into a box 2:Coming under fire You've heard the argument before: ""violent videogames ruin the children"", ""videogames turn people into mass murderers"", ""videogames killed my children"", etc. It will never go away unless we bite the bullet and stop pushing violence. I personally want people to start taking games seriously, as priorly mentioned, but I don't want them percieved as a threat. I can only assume you feel the same way And, to explain what I meant in section 1, I will copy another excerpt from my previous debate, specifically the counterarguments, here: 3: Reiteration of why games tend towards violence Why do people tend to like violent games as opposed to nonviolent ones? One of the issues is the AAA games (like Assassin's Creed or Call of Duty) vs. indie games (like minecraft and Don't Starve). AAA is sponsored by heavy budget studios with heavy wallets and large numbers. Indie games are created by ""independent developers"", which can be stretched, but for all practical purposes just means a small team of friends who just thought it would be fun to create a video game. Because AAA games have larger budgets, they can push their games with advertising campaigns. However, they also don't have much area for originality; because they spend so much money on each project, they can't afford to get a failed project, so they just rehash an old formula: buff guys shooting guns at other buff guys. Indie games usually go with violence as well, to mirror their AAA counterparts. The issue isn't that nonviolent games aren't as good, but that they aren't as well known. What about when they are well done? Undertale, an indie game written by Toby Fox, was prided for its emphasis on nonviolence and the ability to talk with the opponents without taking their lives. Mirror's edge, while still more or less AAA (even with less marketing), and still including heavy amounts of violence, did not focus on violence, but on parkour and freerunning 4: Counterarguments: --"" the more life like a game is the better understanding people get from playing video of real life scenario."" Fair, but what does this have to do with violence? I am fine with games using realism, and even the violence it entails, to get across a message or to undestand others' lifestyles. However, currently, it is overused as a means to attract the average teenage male. --"" Any way there is violence in the news about a murder or a extremist group and movies so that doesn't mean games have to suffer"" First off, I don't care about movies. I'll let the cinephiles debate over that. I, as a gamer, am concerned for video games. Second, I do not believe that movies have this problem as much as video games. I have no sources, so maybe this argument is invalid. But I still believe that, if movies are using it as much as video games (which I doubt), they should tone it down a bit too. -- ""people find these games fun so why ruin it for them."" Well, do you think they find specifically running around taking lives fun, or do you believe that the game, in and of itself, is fun? I don't think that violent games should outright go extinct, but we could do without another COD clone. I believe that video games can be fun without violence, or at least without a constant dependance on violence to remain entertaining. --""All games have violence any way. Mario you kill a goomba but because there is no blood it does not count as violence put a little bit of blood in and it is bad. But it doesn't matter what game you play they all have violence in them"" I disagree with almost everything here. Yes, blood does have an impact on how violent a game seems, and how much it is deemed violent by the ESRB, but this does not mean that every game that doesn't have blood is violent. DDR isn't violent. Guitar Hero isn't violent. Games are not violent by nature, and I believe that games can evolve past gripping furiously onto violence with both hands. Further, I don't care if video games have violence in them, I just have a problem with the pointless overuse of violence. --""If you think they are too violent do not play them you do not need to complain. Also games are meant to be fun and enjoyable so if people like me enjoy fps games then i enjoy them if you do not like them then play another game. people have opinons and you should allow them to make there own decisions not try and stop them playing there favorite game. "" Well, this is a harder point to argue with, I will admit. However, saying that you like FPS games is not the same as saying you couldn't play nonviolent games. Nonviolent games haven't been explored too much, and I would argue that that is one of the only reasons people don't like them. AAA developers are unwilling to cut much from the original formula they have gone through for a long enough amount of time. I don't want to see COD disappear forever. I don't want Undertale to ditch its Neutral Mode or Genecide Mode. I just want there to be less games like COD and, more importantly, more games like Undertale--where nonviolence is given a chance. Right now, there isn't much in the gaming industry (at least on the AAA side) other than FPS games and similarly made violent games. I just want games to branch out a little, not shrink. --""Also games like the new battle field are educational they have a story mode about WW1 as the game is set in early 20th century."" But do they require violence to have education in them? --""All forms of media whether it is a game, movie news all relate to violence in one way. The reason there is violence is because before there was violence and weren't games in the past and there were more wars."" Your first point here was already addressed earlier. Your second point has no bearing in this conversation because it applies to violent video games' affect on real life, which is a point that has been argued to a stalemate, and one which I would rather not address."	PRO	344
344	S7f95546c-A3d4570c7	Video games are not a significant cause of violence in children	"To begin, in the last round I defined the word ""violence"", and its definition being: ""Behavior involving an action intending to hurt, damage, or kill someone or something"". Then, I asked my opponent if this is the goal in most video games, and my opponent replied. Quoted by my opponent, he said, in this round: ""Yes the goal in most video games is kill the enemy, destroy this, eradicate that. achieve this by ridding of this"". So if my opponent admits that the goal in video games are the following actions, listed under the definition of violence, isn't the player already violent within playing the game? He or she must be violent, for willing to play a game that involves killing or injuring others within the elements of the Gameplay. My opponent also says, after admitting the already violence in video games, and quotes: ""But this debate revolves around why video games influence kids or don't influence kids to do physical harm in real life"". My opponent did not clarify this in the first round or within the topic. The topic is: ""Video games are not a significant cause of violence in children"", where I am ""Con"", and stating that kids do get violent from video games, but will 99% of the time not cause any real threat within society. The definition of violence can also be defined as: ""Strength of emotion or an unpleasant natural force""; not in the sense of a criminal, or unjustly action. My opponent did not clarify the definition of ""violence"", so it can mean multiple meanings. With that in mind, kids do get a little violent after playing video games commonly that involve any certain aggressive action. Evidence to support this argument is from the article titled: ""Violent Video Games and Aggressive Behavior, where is says: ""Tend to be more aggressive after playing video games for at least 30 to 40 minutes"". Where I previously mentioned that 91% of kids play video games for an average time of 13.5 hours; above the requirement to get ""aggressive"". So following the topic, video games are, technically, a significant cause of violence. In the previous argument, I brought up the reason of why kids 91% of kids play video games everyday for 13.5 hours, and the reasoning was because of adults and parents ignoring on what their child does; because of adult type responsibilities. My opponent states, with the given quote, that: ""I would never ask 'Why parents do not take these away from their children' because it has nothing to do with the argument. Although I agree its a problem that parents forget about the rating system."". It actually does because its the biggest influence into having kids play video games with violence, with parents forgetting the rating system. Which my opponent refuses to rebuttal because of knowing the truth that this is a major influence within the debate, which actually does prove that kids play violent video games and influence violence upon them; because of the neglect of the rating system within the video game. My opponent then agrees with me that kids tend to stay more inside, than out. Previously, I mentioned because of this more kids will tend to play video games, then watch television. And also, previously, I brought up the statistic that at least 70% of kids stay inside, when given the decision, than outside. My opponent says that this does not matter, when it does because if kids rather stay inside than outside, then there has to be an influence somewhere to play a video game. Like stated previously, 82% of prefer to play video games than any other activity. So this is relevant if kids are willing to stay inside, than outside. For my opponents argument, he states that there is a more major influence on the outside world than inside. I will admit that there is, but I have a few statistics to disapprove my opponents argument. To begin, I like to bring up a term titled ""Video Game Addiction"", where it is defined as: ""Video game overuse, pathological or compulsive and excessive use of computer games and/or video games"". Video game addiction happens, and once it does; players do not want to stop playing the video game. Stated under the website ""Addiction Recovery"", it states that video game addiction occurs because of the player desiring power within their lives, which is easier done in a game, than real life. Children are more prone towards this type of addiction, because of having a more undeveloped brain, and are actually the biggest targets for this addiction. In 2014, 61% of children have at least missed more than five days of school in order to play video games; because of it being fun. So if kids are practically skipping school to play video games, why do you still think that it is more of the outside world? Even in the outside world, there are still more influences to play these violent video games, than being the ""rejected"" one. In a article, titled: ""Global ad spending in video games to top $7.2B in 2016"", it is easily stated that a ton of money is spent on advertising for a video game. Where it populates the country consistently, and in a statistic from ""Statista"", it states that at least 76% of people are influenced by video game advertisements. So if my opponent claims that there are more influences in the outside world, why is there still many influences to play these violent video games? My opponent even agrees that video games are a popular source of media, and therefore stands upon my argument in which kids are heavily influenced to play these violent video games. My opponent still disagrees that because of video games being popular, with the given statement from my opponent being: ""I find it funny that you say because video games are the most popular they are therefore one of the main and only reasons for violent acts and thoughts in kids"". Stated under the article, titled ""The Role and Influence of Mass Media"", the media heavily influences a lot of actions or ideas within society. Examples, that they provided, include the different trends of clothes in different time periods (Wearing 80's clothing at the time and now being very weird towards today's society), and the determination of whether to be afraid or happy in a certain event. So media does have a huge influence, and if my opponent agrees that video games are popular; then how are video games not causing violence within children? My opponent also brought up some statistics within the following link he provided, but that evidence can easily be counter argued with a ""Copy & Paste Method"". My opponent got his evidence from a ""Pro"" and ""Con"" website, where it gives the Pro's and Con's within the site. This is, factually, not a reliable source where it can be counter argued very easily; and should not be used; especially when my opponent just copied and pasted his argument, instead of stating his opinion with evidence to support it. And also breaks the moral of a debate! To conclude this round, let me state that I have brought many counter arguments towards my opponent. My opponent provided some counter arguments, but did not bring any evidence or common logic within the debate; even though stated by my opponents rules of: ""Burden of proof is shared, so any thing claimed as a 'fact' must have a source. Anything claimed opinion has to have 'logic' back that up and this affects both con and pro. It is up to the voters to decide what exactly is fact and logic to themselves"". While I counter argued most of my opponents arguments, and brought up some new arguments. The new arguments of major influences of the outside world, instead of ones comfort zone. Sources: www.pamf.org/parenting-teens/general/media-web/violentgames.html www.rootsofaction.com/video-games-for-kids-more-good-than-bad-for-development/ www.focusonthefamily.com/parenting/protecting-your-family/parents-guide-to-video-games/hooked-the-addictive www.dana.org/Cerebrum/2009/Video_Games_Affect_the_Brain%E2%80%94for_Better_and_Worse/ www.venturebeat.com/2011/09/12/global-ad-spending-in-video-games-to-top-7-2b-in-2016/ www.addictionrecov.org/Addictions/?AID=45 www.statista.com/topics/868/video-games/ www.cliffsnotes.com/sciences/sociology/contemporary-mass-media/the-role-and-influence-of-mass-media"	CON	345
345	S345406bd-Aece683c4	Video games make people aggressive	I think video games make you aggressive, especially on shooting and racing games. I am one of them. Sometimes, it could get out of hand.	PRO	346
346	S6812fbc7-Ad72ae6ae	Video Games are an art form.	"Ok, just like to say thanks for accepting this debate and let's hope it's good. First of all, I would like to get rid of a preconception a lot of you might have. I am not saying all video games are art, because they aren't. This is naive and is a gross misunderstanding of the debate. This does not however mean good video games cannot and are not art. It's just Call Of Duty isn't art, same way Rebecca Black's ""Friday"" and the assorted sub-standard Michael Bay films aren't. First of all, video games are art because they allow the creators and the players to express themselves. My example will be Halo Reach in this case. Most people will think this slightly strange, but, as a whole, Halo Reach is the story of a doomed planet, and the brave men and women who defended it. The campaign tells of Noble Team's tragic and final hours, and even the multiplayer levels show the tombstone of a dying planet on their walls. What's more, with game modes like Invasion, you really get the sense that you are part of a war. And sometimes that's the art in these games. They are an experience, in this case of a future war against a seemingly unstoppable foe and with tragic consequences. Secondly, video games are adept at handling themes, as they not only show you, in most cases, flawed ideologies, but they immerse you in them and make you feel like you are being affected by them. This is an immersive way of getting people to understand complex philosophies: they are put into a world ruled by a chosen philosophy and shown how it has turned out. My example in this case is the Bioshock series. The first Bioshock is based on objectivism, and it is concisely summarized by Andrew Ryan's famous speech ""Is a man not entitled to the sweat of his brow?"". Instead of lengthy sermons, it gives you the dystopian world of Rapture, and shows you the terrible consequences of this flawed concept, like charities and religious freedom being banned. Also, in the upcoming Bioshock Infinite, the themes of racial purity and American exceptionalism, in the floating city of Colombia, which was originally a showcase of the best of America, but has become another dystopia. Thirdly, video games can make emotional experiences and moral dilemmas infinitely more intense by making them interactive. I will use two examples here: LIMBO and the Mass Effect series. LIMBO is a perfect example for this topic, as not only is it a hauntingly beautiful piece of art, but I can also say, without a shadow of a doubt, that it could only ever be done through video games. LIMBO is a game where you play as little boy, who wakes up in a hostile world filled with horrors. LIMBO is a beautiful piece of art, in a big way because it lets you draw your own meaning from it. The only information we are given by Playdead is ""Uncertain of his Little Sister's fate, a Boy enters LIMBO"". In this world, you encounter many dangers and hazards, and many strange, unexplained encounters, and it leaves you to draw your own conclusion from the events. Mass Effect is also another piece of art only possible through this interactive medium. In the Mass Effect series, you play as Commander Shepard, a soldier who must prepare the galaxy for an invasion from a unknown species who live in dark space, and come out every few thousand years to wipe out advanced civilizations. Mass Effect is a game about conflict. Conflict between species, factions and people, and you are expected to resolve these conflicts so as to repel the Reaper invasion. The thing that makes Mass Effect unique and, quite frankly amazing, is the way in which you interact with the world. You can talk to people in whatever manner you choose, try and persuade people to do what you want and, in it's strongest moments, the game forces you to make terrible choices. For example, in the first Mass Effect, you must decide whether you let a species known as the Rachni, who just attacked you, live, in the hope that under their queen they will turn to your side, or kill them, and make sure they don't kill anyone again. It is a tough decision, and you must make it. In a movie, the hero would make it and you would just think ""Oh, I would've done it differently, but I guess that's that"". But in Mass Effect, you are forced to decide the fate of the galaxy. Similarly, in Mass Effect 2, if you don't prepare your team sufficiently for the final mission, some of them will die. This was a heart-wrenching experience for me the first time I played it, as I made some bad decisions and a large amount of my team got killed. In a movie, you would feel sad that they died, but in Mass Effect, I felt a personal guilt, as I knew if I prepared properly, they would still be alive. That's what Mass Effect does. It gives you a sci-fi epic, and makes it personal and interactive. I have listed my main points above, and I look forward to hearing my opponent's arguement. Good luck and remember guys: Keep It Clean. http://en.wikipedia.org... http://en.wikipedia.org... http://en.wikipedia.org... http://en.wikipedia.org...(video_game) http://en.wikipedia.org... http://en.wikipedia.org... WARNING: Spoilers below for Halo Reach Halo: Reach ending: http://www.youtube.com... Bioshock Intro: http://www.youtube.com... Bioshock Infinite Demo: http://www.youtube.com... LIMBO trailer: http://www.youtube.com... Mass Effect Rachni choices: http://www.youtube.com... Mass Effect 2 gameplay: http://www.youtube.com..."	PRO	347
347	Sa5ca39dc-A4500fbb9	violent video games do NOT breed violence	"First of all I didn't state that violent video games are tied to aggression patrick markey did a renowned psychologist that leads studies into whether or not violent video games are tied to aggression. Secondly, your first and last source leads to 2 different 404 pages and your second has no works cited page has the same goal as any newsgroup, to get you to click on them, a more likely cause for these crimes is mental illness not the video games themselves or the children try to use violent video games as a scape goat. The salem witch trials were caused by simalar reasons video games are be attacked by, what would happen is people would commit crimes and instead of owning up to them they would blame ""bad witches"" for the crimes much like what is happening now with video games."	PRO	348
348	S6ba1043a-A566820be	Religion causes more violence than video games	What started every battle and war between about 3000 BCE through some time in the 20th century when video games were invented. And once video games were created, and it almost ended not to shortly after it was invented. What happened during between about 3000 BCE through some time in the 20th century? RELIGION! That's the only reason. Once video games came out, it decrease the rate of wars and battles. Not much and if video games created violence, that means everyone plays video games.	PRO	349
349	Se9b44971-A40403e7	Are Video Games really bad for people? 2	There are many reasons video games are not bad for people. I will name just a few. 1.) Exercise. Video games can include exercise. The Wii requires movement. A few games are Wii Sports, Just Dance, and Wii Sports Resort. Video games that require a controller can help build finger and hand muscle. 2.) Video games can actually help older children when it comes to school. War games can help in history. Survival games can help in science. Math can be found in pretty much any game. Cooking games can help with home economics. 3.) Video games are a way for people and children to hang out when the weather outside is not very good (rain, snow, thunderstorm, etc.). It can be a way for them to interact and find out things they have in common. It can also benefit families. Some families have family game night that is dedicated just to video games. This way, parents and children can spend time together and do something both can enjoy. Thank you for debating with me. Good sportsmanship and I hope you had as much fun in this debate as I did.	CON	350
350	Sa808517c-Ac26bafe4	Violent video games should be banned	Welcome to this debate! I assume that violent video games aren't beneficial for people at all and their existance isn't useful for anybody, except of these games developers.	PRO	351
351	Se927395d-A69299124	Video games can actually be beneficial	"I want to note that my intuitions stated in round 1 were correct (*pats on the back*) Semantics? My opponent falsely accuses me of playing semantics. ""Semantics: the meaning, or an interpretation of the meaning, of a word, sign, sentence, etc.:"" http://dictionary.reference.com...; I refer you to the full wording of the resolution: ""Video games can actually be beneficial"" The resolution was NOT ""Video games can be beneficial"". Since ""actually""was used in the resolution itself, and since I did not change the meaning of the word, I have not played semantics. This is particularly ironic since pro is attempting to use semantics himself to win the debate solely based on the usage of ""can"" to mean logical possibility! Remember that pro has the burden of proof. I will not accept any of it by shouldering his accusations. :P Pro has the full burden of proof - I accept none of it My opponent should have worded the resolution more carefully if he takes issue with the terms he used. It's also fairly obvious that this debate was meant to be an automatic bait win by resorting to logical possibility (as I said in R1 lol). Remember that ""actually"" means ""1. as the truth or facts of a situation; really."" Moving the Goalposts My opponent says: ""The only thing I have to do is show that it's possible there is a benefit from videos games. This is completely independent of whether or not we know our objective purpose. "" This is an example of moving the goalposts [1]. He is moving the goalposts by dropping a key stipulation (""actually beneficial"") given in the resolution that lessens his burden of proof that gives him an intentional advantage. What my opponent must show (per the resolution and given his burden of proof) is that there is actually (really, truthfully, or factually) a benefit from playing video games. There cannot be an actual, truthful, or factual benefit for any person unless mankind has an objective purpose. If I value poor eyesight, deficient problem solving, ignorance, sickness, and a lack of social skills then video games are not actually beneficial to me. My values, purpose, and destiny in life is entirely subjective. If there can be an actual, factual, or truthful benefit to playing video games this is logically impossible unless I have an objective purpose. Otherwise my subjective values and purpose decide whatever is beneficial towards the end I want to achieve. I have shown that valuing health, mental capabilities, and social skills are entirely subjective! Playing video games cannot *actually* or *factually* be beneficial. Human beings are means without ends if humanity doesn't have any objective purpose. In short, my opponent cannot uphold his burden of proof because he cannot show that video games can have any actual benefit without showing that humanity can have objective purpose. Thus far he has not even attempted this. The resolution is negated. Over to pro. http://en.wikipedia.org..."	CON	352
352	S57837677-A94175be5	Video Games are better than Movies.	Thank you for accepting the debate, ThatGuy. You haven't really presented arguments, per say. You've simply stated you prefer the directing and wanted to work in film. Nothing to argue, really. It is really preference, but here's why I prefer video games; {{I: Player Choice}} With a movie, once you've seen it, you know everything that will happen, in what order, and in what way. You'll always know that Darth Vader throws Palpatine over the railing and into the chasm to save Luke at the end of Star Wars Episode VI. Woody and the gang are always saved from incineration by the three-eyed alien toys in Toy Story 3. Nothing changes. With video games, on the other hand, even if it's Call of Duty, the action can change. Will you clear that room of enemies with a grenade? Or will you use a knife? Perhaps you'll just use your guns? The whole point is YOU control the action. This fact is made even more true in games like Minecraft. Your character is plopped down into an open world where you can craft, build, or fight. If you want to restrict yourself to using only leather armor and wood weapons, go for it! Hate violence? Play as a pacifist on Peaceful Mode, and just build a home, craft a ship, or go big and construct a castle. In fact, in Super Paper Mario, one of the first things you can do is refuse to even take part in the story, resulting in an immediate 'Game Over'. [1] Admittedly, yes, even most video games have set storylines to follow and unchangeable scenes to sit through, but it's effectively impossible for any medium to not have some kind of story. The only art mediums that seem to have no requirement for a plot are sculpting and painting, and even then I'd argue the story lies with the ispiration or the message behind them. However, that is a discussion for another time. {{2: Various Benefits}} Honestly, this my final reason, since visuals, soundtrack, and storylines are personal preference. Study after study has shown that playing video games improves hand-eye coordination[2] and cognition[3]. Studies have linked them to aggression and anti-social behavior, but others have found the exact opposite as well[4]. Video games and violence is a hot topic that is still up in the air, but with the rise of the popularity of video games, violent crime has gone down at a similar rate[5: Charts 13-20]. Have any studies shown watching movies has benefits? I've personally never heard of anything of the sort, so I Googled it for argument's sake. http://www.pajiba.com... I must say, video games and movies are quite similar. Feel free to spring-board off of that, guy. (See what I did there?) I'll be waiting with bated breath for your response. [+=+] Sources: 1: https://m.youtube.com... 2: http://www.techtimes.com... 3: http://greenlab.psych.wisc.edu... 4: http://www.healthline.com... 5: http://videogames.procon.org...	PRO	353
353	Sb381c0ed-Aa61555a9	Video games do not cause children to commit crimes	Sorry for forfeiting the round, I did have other debates to do and so I have run out of time. You said: People just kill animals for their goods and money and even if you Ban video games people will keep killing elephants for ivory. Yes,people kill animals for their goods and money, but in video games they show horrific violence. Humans kill the animals in video games in an abusive way. They kill animals for no reason. (not for their goods and money.) You said children were already bad before they played these video games,but Dylan wasn't a person that would kill someone,but when he played the video games his brain got influenced and he shot innocent lives. Also to make it clear,im not saying to ban video games I just believe that we need to be more strict with what we put into children's minds. Some things are so graphic and children shouldn't even be looking at this kind of stuff. Studies show that if you look at something so graphic or horrific you will get criminal behaviour or even be traumatised. Its not healthy for your brain. I know that even if you ban video games things like rape and murder will still happen,but if these games that promote these negative themes get banned, the rape and murder rates would go lower. (better than going higher.) I do know that not all video games have shooting in them,in fact some of them are educational. But like I said its not good to promote negative themes. Their companies that are to stop rape and murder but how can we stop it if video games are promoting these themes? I thank you for this debate and wish you good luck. But I still believe STRONGLY that video games do cause children to commit crimes. Thank you.	CON	354
354	S2a9f4151-Aa11dc72d	Video games(Pro) vs books (con)	"For this debate, video games where you create things will be accepted. That is the reason they are made for imagination, to encourage creativity, and for that reason, I will be permitted to use such. Rebuttals: ""Video games are often the classic tale of following an adventure and finished levels and missions. Thus, video games would not create any creativity as they are simply a sequence of events that other people have arranged for the creator."" However there are games like minecraft where you create your own world, you make your own story, unlike in books. In books you follow one ride that won't change. In video games, you can make your own story, or find different ways to succeed in another character's story. For example, when you play pokemon, you follow a character's story. However, you can choose which pokemon you want to go with you on the journey, giving a wider variety of possibilities, inducing creativity. Much more creativity than in a book, where you follow someone else's story, without having a say. I will not rebuttal all your points, because they will be countered in my arguments. Arguments: First of all, to be literal, Boys and girls who play video games are more creative than those who don't. [1] This implies that playing video games boost creativity. Secondly, video games are more sociable. Because of such, you learn how to incorporate team work, and how to make plans, in order to win the challenge. This induces creativity by thinking out many possibilities. Reading is much less sociable, since you read alone, and even when reading with someone, you only discuss the book. This induces much less creativity than finding ways to work together. Thirdly, you think about various decisions. In video games, you influence the story, while in reading, you only follow it. You can't creatively influence the book, for the story is already written. In video games, you have a variety of possibilities, which induces more creativity since you have to think of the most successful way to win. In video games, you kind of do visualisation, but another way then reading. In reading, it is simple to imagine what is happening to the characters are doing, because you simply read and visualize. In video games, there is a story in there, but you need to figure it out through pictures. This creates much more creativity because you use what you see, and create your own story, that is as close as possible as you can. This creates much more creativity than reading a book, because you create the story, instead of visualizing it. Think about it like this,a picture is worth a thousand words, so what if it is a million of moving pictures? You have to figure out which one of those thousands of words makes the story. So video games induce more creativity because you create your own story instead of following one that you have no influence on. Furthermore, you can create things in games like minecraft, creating is more creative than reading. In addition, as I have mentioned earlier, video games induce creativity according to studies. Video games have a fun way of showing a story, while having a variety of challenges for you to creatively accomplish. Sometimes, you even create your own story in video games. In books, you only follow a story someone else wrote, that you have no influence on. How could a book possibly encourage more creativity than a video game? sources: 1.http://www.eurekalert.org..."	PRO	355
355	Sa6fe5b30-A17db279a	Are video games good for you.	"First you were supposed to type something other then I accept challenge I think that's what you are saying and second ""Even though you are able to stay focused you still need to remember things. Remembering things is a essential thing to be able to find things that you lost or know who your friends and family are. The another way video games help you is that you will remember things like what homework or test or anything is coming up. When you remember things you can get better things but just because you remember more things doesn't mean you can just slack off and not study. When you remember more things you can get your work done because you know what you were learning that day. So if you want to be able to remember things playing video games for 30 minutes to an hour a day would be good but not so long that you forget to do anything"" (Anonymous)."	PRO	356
356	Saa60f638-A6eb48705	Video Games Are Harmful to Kids	"You bring up the point that violent video games are dangerous for developing minds. This is true that they can leave impressions on the youth in society. But you can""t put the blame solely on the video game and the company that produces it. The blame rests on the parent. Theses popular violent videogames and rated M for mature for a reason. In order to even purchase these games you need to be seventeen years old and by then the kid is most likely in their senior year of high school. Parent s need to make the decision if they want their kids playing these games. But in most cases the parent doesn""t even know what the game is about. They purchase the game to basically shut their kid up. Being a gamer for a long time I have witnessed scenarios where immature kids are playing games that are made for a mature audience that won""t overreact with violence. I have heard kids that are seven playing these games and I agree that it is inappropriate for them to be on them. It is a choice that their parents made and I don""t support it. I have also witnessed kids in line for the release of a mature game. They acted like brats and most likely don""t fully understand what a war actually is. When you say ""video games essentially reward for violent behavior"", they do but they don""t. Sure you receive in game rewards to encourage you to play the more often, but it""s not like these rewards transfer over to real life. The games don""t condone violent behavior outside in the real world. They simply give you an advantage to entice you to spend more time playing. Saying they reduce empathy all depends on the maturity level. As stated earlier you are expected to be seventeen when you are playing so it is expected that you will have understanding that it is a simulation and not to be taken to heart. Little kids don""t have this real life understanding, and may even blur the lines between reality and their own imaginary world. ""None of the medical doctors interviewed in the article argue that the increasing numbers of ADHD diagnoses actually represent the spreading of a disease. On the contrary, the doctors point to a purely iatrogenic cause for the epidemic: ""slipshod"" diagnoses, use of drugs for ""enhancement"" of the abilities of children who are otherwise healthy, parental pressure on doctors to drug their kids to improve school performance, and ""an alarming rate of misuse of the diagnosis.""( Marilyn Wedge ) This is an exert from an article about ADHD stating that there is not necessarily a spread in the disease but rather an over diagnosed and exploited pole. Parents feel that the drug will help their kid perform better in school. This is far from the truth, if the child is falsely diagnosed the drug may even hold the child back from their full potential in academics. The reason doctor are prescribing the drugs to these kids is because of pressure from parents who feel that there has to be something wrong with their child for them not to do well in school. I'm out of room: ("	CON	357
357	S3e67d226-Aaf8cded5	Video games are not a significant factor in mass shootings.	"Ave! I'm going to be using some parts of an essay I wrote for school in this debate, just to make it interesting. Absence of evidence is evidence of absence when evidence is to be expected. I will be putting forward this axiom for the debate. If P is true, then we should see E. We do not see E, therefore P is probably not true. Our lack of E, therefore, is evidence that P is not true. This axiom is extremely beneficial to my case. If video games are a significant factor in mass shootings, then we should see evidence of it. If there is no evidence, then video games are probably not a signicant factor in mass shootings. I claim that there is no evidence to show that video games are a significant factor in mass shootings. The lack of evidence in favor of that idea becomes a positive argument against it. Con must do the following two things. 1) Accept or refute the axion. 2) Show there is evidence that video games are a significant factor in mass shootings. If Con cannot demonstrate #2, then it follows logically from the axiom that video games are probably not a significant factor in mass shootings. I understand that the burden of proof is on me to show that video games are not a significant factor in mass shootings. But, if the axiom is true, and Con cannot demonstrate #2, then I have actually made a positive argument in favor of the resolution (no evidence for the idea --> positive case against the idea).[1] Video games and personality The American Psychological Association published a press release in 2010 that discussed the current research about video games. It cited research by Dr. Patrick Markey, which ‘’determined that a certain combination of personality traits can help predict which young people will be more adversely affected by violent video games.’’ If this research is true, then the role that the player’s personality has on the consequences of video game use cannot be denied. It’s not the violence in the video game that causes mass shootings or violent crime, but it’s the person who plays the game.[2] Sandy Hook The tragedy at Sandy Hook elementary is used as an example of violent video games causing mass shootings. Adam Lanza was a fan of violent video games, and dozens of them were found in the basement he lived in before the shooting took place. However, it’s premature to argue that violent video games motivated Lanza to become a mass shooter. CBS News published an article on its website called ‘’Newtown shooter motivated by Norway massacre, sources say’’. This article claims that sources from the Connecticut police believe that Adam Lanza’s attack was motivated by violent video games. It is alleged by these sources that each kill represented some type of ‘score’ in the shooters mind. The problem with this argument is that the Connecticut police haven’t actually finished their investigation of Lanza’s motives. In fact, the end of the article mentions a statement by Lt. J. Paul Vance, who states that the investigation is not yet complete and any statements about the motivations of the shooter are only speculation. [3] The details of Adam Lanza’s lifestyle before the shooting are well-known to the public. He lived in a basement that was completely isolated from any sources of light or noise, likely because Lanza was diagnosed with sensory integration disorder. He spent all of his day playing violent video games without any human interaction involved. The lack of social interaction that Lanza experienced was probably a part of his motivation. An article by the NY Daily News talked about how playing video games with other people can increase cooperative behavior and decrease aggression. The other group, which played video games competitively, scored worse in those categories. If he had simply played video games in a different way, then he would have been less aggressive and more cooperative. The problem with Adam Lanza was how he played video games, not the games themselves. [4] Of course, the research that I brought up in this section could easily apply to any other mass shooting like it. References [1] http://rationalwiki.org... [2] ‘’Violent Video Games May Increase Aggression in Some But Not Others, Says New Research."" Violent Video Games May Increase Aggression in Some But Not Others, Says New Research. American Psychological Association, 7 June 2010. Web. 18 Feb. 2013. [3] Orr, Bob, and Pat Milton. ""Newtown Shooter Motivated by Norway Massacre, Sources Say."" Cbsnews.com. CBS News, 18 Feb. 2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2013. [4] ""Do Violent Video Games Boost Aggression? Not Necessarily, Studies Say ."" NY Daily News. N.p., 7 Sept. 2012. Web. 18 Feb. 2013. Vale!"	PRO	358
358	S758ea5f9-A168808ed	Are Video Games the main cause for Violent Juvenile Crimes	First, the claims of harm caused by video games have not been proven. The most criticised violent video games are generally military shooters. However, these games generally focus much more strongly on multiplayer components of the game. These multiplayer components often require significant levels of teamwork in order for one side to be successful over the other. As such, many of these video games end up teaching players core teamwork skills as well as often teaching leadership skills when players become part of organised gaming groups. Further, numerous researchers have proposed potential positive effects of video games on aspects of social and cognitive development and psychological well-being. It has been shown that action video game players have better hand-eye coordination and visuo-motor skills, such as their resistance to distraction, their sensitivity to information in the peripheral vision and their ability to count briefly presented objects, than non-players. Video games also promote the development of intellectual skills such as planning and problem-solving, and social games may improve the social capabilities of the individual.[1] Given then that video games provide these benefits, banning violent games would harm the industry overall, causing many of the developers of other games which encourage these kinds of skills to lose their funding from game publishers. Put simply, the banning of violent video games would lead to fewer games overall being published and if these games have the effects listed above then a great net benefit is lost in the process.	PRO	359
359	S9b628f42-A17097ccd	Homework is better than video games	"Alright, Instead of writing a goddamn essay, I'm just going to respond to what you have claimed. ""Why does everyone prefer video games? "" Because it is fun and entertaining, Puts you on a whole new world instead of raising your stress ""If you are addicted to video games you will stay at home all day playing instead of meeting friends (unless you go inviting them to play with you, Which is highly not recommend). "" Yes, IF you are addicted. You are claiming like 100% of all people who play games are addicted. It is a parent's responsibility to help your child not become addicted. Also why do you not want people to invite friends? Do you think it's some sort of virus? Also homework has a less chance of making friends than video games. It's not some sort of all mighty social activity. ""But you can't be addicted to it"" Yes you can, If put through massive stress from your parents or close ones ""So if you arrange your time well you can still exercise and meet friends to reduce your stress. "" Same goes for video-games but they do not cause stress Saying that, I think you're probably just some parent. No right-minded person would say this to be honest. Homework doesn't really learn anything either considering they're just recaps of the lesson in class. It is an ineffective way to learn anything really, Anything it does is give you hand cramps. And with that, Your turn"	CON	360
360	Sa808513e-Ace0cbfae	Violent video games should be banned	"My opponent, Pro, has forfeited the final round. I will view this as a concession since he has broken his own rules for the round structure by forfeiting twice now. Regardless, I promised to provide rebuttals to his original arguments in my previous round and will now deliver on that promise. Rebuttals My opponent opens his round by making this claim: ""There are multiple surveys and scientific evidence that playing violent video games can change the way our minds act and can change our perception of right from wrong."" I take it that this is his main point for his position and will now rebut the studies he shared to support his claim. I. Norwegian man/Call of Duty His first source is not a study at all, in fact, it's a dailymail article which touches on the Norwegian man who went on a shooting-spree, killing 77 people in the process. My opponent uses the fact that he played Call of Duty to prepare himself as a reason to ban all violent video games. This is an absurd action by my opponent. Firstly, we don't know which Call of Duty game he used, but still, let's take a look at the big picture here - Call of Duty, as a series, has sold over 139,600,000 copies of games. [1] That's over 139 million. This is one man. So, in this case, only 00.00000072% of Call of Duty players have committed a shooting spree while using the game as practice. This is such a small percentage that the motion to ban the game and any others like it due to this one man's actions is laughable at best, and wholly unjustified by Pro at worst. Ultimately, the fact that one man utilized a video game for practice holds no weight whatsoever in this debate when we look at the grand scheme of things. There has been no evidence given by Pro to show or prove that such video games as Call of Duty is a net detriment, when in reality there are only a handful of cases of mentally unstable individuals, who unfortunately utilized these games for furthering their own twisted ends. II. 23 yr old stabbing victim/GTA 5 The second source utilized by Pro is, again, not a study, but rather an article from independent magazine. This funny thing about this source is that the people committing the crime are stealing the games from the victim, not the other way around. So far, Pro has been arguing that those who play the games are the ones doing bad, but now it seems like it's the people who want to play the games that are doing the bad things by stealing the games from other people. How can we be sure that the thieves were influenced by these games? Wouldn't it have been the game-owner who'd have done the robbing since, you know, he played and owned the game? Ultimately, this source is useless in furthering Pro's position because it gives no weight to his previous claims whatsoever. Just an un-related story that happens to feature a victim who owned the games. III. US institution for mental healthcare and The American Academy of Paediatrics My opponent finishes his round by sharing a statement from these institutions which says: ""People who see a lot of violence are more likely to view violence as an effective way of settling conflicts. People exposed to violence are more likely to assume that acts of violence are acceptable behavior. Viewing violence can lead to emotional desensitization towards violence in real life. It can decrease the likelihood that one will take action on behalf of a victim when violence occurs."" There are several issues I have with such a statement. First and foremost, there is no evidence given by Pro that shows that this statement was a response to violent video games. It's more reasonable to assume that this statement has to do with anything related to violence, be it violence in the family home, at school, work, on television, etc., and without direct attachment to violent video games, there is no reason for me to accept that this quote is fully applicable within the scope of this debate. Secondly, I covered how video games have age-restrictions for purchase, and also falls into the responsibility of the legal guardians of minors, thus the games themselves cannot be held accountable as it was a failure of the guardians and distributors to properly guard impressionable minds from such material. Lastly, in the quote we see language such as, ""more likely"", ""can lead to"", ""can decrease"".... you see, these are all assumptions, none of them are purported as fact. Statements such as ""more likely"" means probability, possibility, and is not, in any way, a guarantee of causation. Thus, ultimately, such a quote also falls short of holding any real weight in this debate. In closing, I have now provided rebuttals to each point raised by my opponent, Pro. Furthermore, Pro has failed to provide any rebuttals to the arguments I presented previously, nor did he follow his own rules in regards to round structure due to his multiple forfeits. For these reasons, I urge a vote for Con. Thank you. Sources [1] http://www.statisticbrain.com..."	CON	361
361	Sf888e5a8-Ae4c9e849	Video Games are Sports	"Thank you for setting up this debate, I accept to argue that video games are not sports, that eSports are seperate from physical sports. Your definition of sport leaves out the bit about physical exertion that is prevalent in just about every online definition I've ever read, from Google to Merriam Webster to Dictionary.com. The definition of the noun ""sport"" according to Dictionary.com is: ""an athletic activity requiring skill or physical prowess and often of acompetitive nature, as racing, baseball, tennis, golf, bowling, wrestling, boxing, hunting, fishing, etc."" The key word here is, of course, athletic. Video games are not an athletic activity, no matter how quickly you can move your fingers. You said in your argument that professional gamers are athletes but not physical athletes, and if we take a look at the definition of ""athlete"": Merriam Webster: ""a person who is trained or skilled in exercises, sports, or games requiring physical strength, agility, or stamina"" Dictionary.com: ""a person trained or gifted in exercises or contests involving physicalagility, stamina, or strength; a participant in a sport, exercise, or game requiring physical skill."" Prize pools are impressive in eSports, but this does not contribute to the argument that eSports should be considered physical sports, I don't see how this helps your argument. Sports are competitions requiring physical exertion, and in the definition of ""sport"" listed above salary is not mentioned. How much professional gamers are paid has no bearing on whether or not video games are sports. eSports do appear on sports channels and sports news, but it is seperated from all of the other sports and addressed as ""eSports"". ESPN, the world's leading sports news source, has a section for eSports, but it is addressed just as eSports (http://www.espn.com...). This is because eSports are a subcategory of sports, they aren't the same thing, but they have a very similar competitive format. You brought up chess, saying that it is widely regarded as a sport. This is true, but there are good reasons for this. Chess requires peak mental condition, which requires one to also be in peak physical condition. To quote London Chess Conference: ""Peak mental condition requires being in good physical condition. Players need to concentrate totally for up to seven hours. As the stress and tension builds up, blood pressure, pulse and respiration rates all increase. Contenders for the world championships have nutritionists and fitness coaches."" There are numerous other reasons chess is considered a sport on that website, for example chess has been recognized as a sport by the International Olympic Comittee since 2000. In conclusion, video games are not sports, they are eSports. This is a subcategory, not the same thing, different in ways that prohibit eSports from being sports. I feel like I should clarify that I have no problem with eSports, I love eSports. I follow CoD eSports (since it's the game I discovered eSports on) and right now I'm trying to get into CS:GO and Halo's professional scenes. Sources: http://www.dictionary.com... http://www.merriam-webster.com... http://www.dictionary.com... http://londonchessconference.com..."	CON	362
362	S74ad1395-A839778c8	Why video games are good for you.	Video games are good for you.	PRO	363
363	S6ba1043a-Ab790662c	Religion causes more violence than video games	I agree with bullies, but what about before video games. There were more fights before staying at home or at an arcade playing games. Religion was around more than 5000 or more years ago and there were more fights and battles back then than once video games were first introduced. Look at ISIS. They don't have any video games and they are killing off people because that's their religion. What about the 9 11. That happen with no video games at all. Just hijackers taking over planes and killing themselves and lots of other people for their religion. Video games distract others from whats happening around the world. They know whats right and wrong, they just hide themselves from the rest of the world. Your move	PRO	364
364	Sc80f9596-Ad4ec3c9f	should children play mature rated video games	Children should first of all play video games because video games help children take out there stress and violence. There are proven studies that video games allow children to increases the number of objects they can track on a screen which helps during multi tasking. Video games don't damage the brain	PRO	365
365	S2a1e2055-Af3558bbc	should kids be able to play violent video games	video games in general can be actually good for you in a few ways. Germany discovered that you can use video games as a source of entertainment like that to help cure ADHD by giving them something to do and increase the IQ people with the condition and also help Dyslexia. A study in 2014 discovered that violent video games have actually decreased the amount of real world violence. There is a study showing that playing team games which most video games these days are help people be more cooperative. Also children 10-15 years old play video games and tend to be more happier with life then children who don't play at all.	PRO	366
366	S3307f209-A55dad08c	Ban the sale of violent video games	"Defenition of violent video game: (Violent video games) Controversies over video games center on debates around video game content and the potential for it to negatively impact player attitude and behavior. ... http://en.wikipedia.org... 1: My argument of, ""Video Game Violence and Why It Should End Video games these days are now just shooting and killing. Children play these games for entertainment and I know that they are fun, because I play them too. But this is a serious thing. Children do not need to play violent games because games can influence children to do so. People say,""Oh, my son promised to never act like that,"" or,""Tyler loves these games and he keeps asking for a BB gun"". The BB gun may be just for fun, but soon he'll get a real gun."" My opponent actually agreed with this. Q: A: 1: The largest study of gun violence in the United States, released Thursday afternoon, confirms a point that should be obvious: widespread American gun ownership is fueling America""s gun violence epidemic. The study, by Professor Michael Siegel at Boston University and two coauthors, has been peer-reviewed and is forthcoming in the American Journal of Public Health. Siegel and his colleagues compiled data on firearm homicides from all 50 states from 1981-2010, the longest stretch of time ever studied in this fashion, and set about seeing whether they could find any relationship between changes in gun ownership and murder using guns over time. Since we know that violent crime rates overall declined during that period of time, the authors used something called ""fixed effect regression"" to account for any national trend other than changes in gun ownership. They also employed the largest-ever number of statistical controls for other variables in this kind of gun study: ""age, gender, race/ethnicity, urbanization, poverty, unemployment, income, education, income inequality, divorce rate, alcohol use, violent crime rate, nonviolent crime rate, hate crime rate, number of hunting licenses, age-adjusted nonfirearm homicide rate, incarceration rate,and suicide rate"" were all accounted for. No good data on national rates of gun ownership exist (partly because of the NRA""s stranglehold on Congress), so the authors used the percentage of suicides that involve a firearm (FS/S) as a proxy. The theory, backed up by a wealth of data, is that the more guns there are any in any one place, the higher the percentage of people who commit suicide with guns as opposed to other mechanisms will be. With all this preliminary work in hand, the authors ran a series of regressions to see what effect the overall national decline in firearm ownership from 1981 to 2010 had on gun homicides. The result was staggering: ""for each 1 percentage point increase in proportion of household gun ownership,"" Siegel et al. found, ""firearm homicide rate increased by 0.9R43; percent. A one standard deviation change in firearm ownership shifted gun murders by a staggering 12.9 percent. To put this in perspective, take the state of Mississippi. ""All other factors being equal,"" the authors write, ""our model would predict that if the FS/S in Mississippi were 57.7% (the average for all states) instead of 76.8% (the highest of all states), its firearm homicide rate would be 17% lower."" Since 475 people were murdered with a gun in Mississippi in 2010, that drop in gun ownership would translate to 80 lives saved in that year alone. Of course, the authors don""t find that rates of gun ownership explain all of America""s gun violence epidemic: race, economic inequality and generally violent areas all contribute to an area""s propensity for gun deaths, suggesting that broader social inequality, not gun ownership alone, contributes to the gun violence epidemic. Nevertheless, the fact that gun ownership mattered even when race and poverty were accounted for suggests that we can""t avoid talking about America""s fascination with guns when debating what to do about the roughly 11,000 Americans who are yearly murdered by gunfire."" http://thinkprogress.org... 2: ""Video Game Violence and Why It Should End Video games these days are now just shooting and killing. Children play these games for entertainment and I know that they are fun, because I play them too. But this is a serious thing. Children do not need to play violent games because games can influence children to do so. People say,""Oh, my son promised to never act like that,"" or,""Tyler loves these games and he keeps asking for a BB gun"". The BB gun may be just for fun, but soon he'll get a real gun."" Yes this is sort of correct a person who likes first person shooters may want to get a gun. Please show me how guns increase violence. My opponent totally agreed with me on this subject. 3: I gave you websites. Obviously you did not read al of my arguments whereas I am examine all your arguments at least 3x over."	PRO	367
367	Sc827393f-A1153247	violent video games should be banned	you said they help get your anger out, how? many things could take stress out but to use it on something that is insulting to people in the army is just not respectful. I know many people who played many violent video games and got sucked into it. then they went out and got bb guns and Airsoft guns and now they want to get a gun. the gun that someone might get after violent video games won't be for hunting and wont even be for protection. you've been hearing about many mass shootings lately.	PRO	368
368	Sa808513e-A4e9b403e	Violent video games should be banned	This house believes that violent video games (and video games which contain antisocial behavior) should be banned. I acknowledge the fact that many people will have strong opinions on this topic and henceforth have decided to debate it. Round one- accept the challenge, please do not write any other comments in round one. Round two- first round of debate with no quoting(or responding to) other participants documents or points from round two. Round three- counter arguments (you may now respond to points from round two). Round four- conclusion. I would also like to wish my opponent the best of luck.	PRO	369
369	S9b628f42-A95d7b9e6	Homework is better than video games	Why everyone prefers video games? Sitting in front of your computer cause physical problems while it also causes mental problems. If you are addicted to video games you will stay at home all day playing instead of meeting friends (unless you go inviting them to play with you, Which is highly not recommend). What about homework? Doing homework all day does cause physical problems, But you can't be addicted to it, So if you arrange your time well you can still exercise and meet friends to reduce your stress.	PRO	370
370	S78239cf0-Ad3518fda	Emulators For Video Games Are Illegal	"This is just going to a be a straight up argument out of Copyright Law. Video games are protected by copyrights (both the specific code used to implement the game and the audiovisual elements of the game). [1] Copyrights last for the life of the person who created the copyrighted work plus 70 years after that person's death. The video game ""Pong"" and other early games weren't invented until the 1970's so they would still be protected by copyrights. Basically, all games are still copyrighted. My opponent claims that it is *not* illegal to download emulators and ROMs for ""discontinued"" systems, like the Sega Genesis, Nintendo, Super Nintendo (""SNES""), and the Nintendo 64 (""N64""). As an aside: an ""emulator"" is similar to the video game system itself. It is a program that allows you to play games for that specific system. Most emulators are exclusive to only one system, so you can download on PC or Android an emulator for SNES or Gameboy or Sega Genesis or N64. ""ROMs"" are the games that you download and can play by loading them into the emulator, similar to loading a cartridge into the old video game systems. Now that we are done with that ""aside,"" the problem with my opponent's argument is that ""discontinued"" games are still under copyrights, so it is still illegal under copyright law to download them. My opponent claims two things make the downloading of ROMs legal: (1) the games are no longer manufactured and (2) *some* people own the video game whose ROM they are downloading. I will show how *neither* of these makes downloading ROMs legal. (1) ""Discontinued"" games As I'v said, discontinued games are still under copyright (for the life of the creator plus 70 years). It is not legal to download a ""discontinued"" game, *even if* the creator no longer intends to monetize it. Under copyright law, if you write or create anything it is copyrighted. Period. Whether or not you intend to profit off of it. If you write a letter to someone, your words are copyrighted. If you take a photograph of a building, it is copyrighted. Someone else cannot copy and sell your letter or photograph without your permission or else they are violating copyright law. It doesn't matter that you didn't intend to profit from the letter or photograph. Likewise, the fact that companies have discontinued the SNES or Sega Genesis is immaterial to whether it is legal to download ROMs. Furthermore, by ""discontinued,"" my opponent means that these systems and games are no longer manufactured. However, the copyright holders *do* continue to profit from selling the copyright. Go to the Android store (""Google Play""). Search for ""Sonic the Hedgehog."" You will find Sega selling a port of this old ""discontinued"" Sega Genesis game for use on people's phones and tablets. Go to the Android store. Search ""Crazy Taxi."" You will find Sega selling a port of this old ""discontinued"" Dreamcast game for use on phones and tablets. Go to the Apple Store. Search ""Final Fantasy."" You will find Square Enix selling an iPhone version of this old ""discontinued"" Nintendo game. Go to the Apple Store. Search ""Chrono Trigger."" Another ""discontinued"" SNES game. Go to the Wii store and search for pretty much any old Mario game (e.g. Paper Mario) and you can *pay* to download an older port of the game to your Wii. Go on your PS3. Search for any popular PS1 or PS2 game (e.g. Final Fantasy VII), and you can pay to download a version of this game that can be played on your PS3 or your Playstation Portable. Most video game companies have *not* abandoned the copyright in their works. They continue to monetize these games. Now go to the Android Store and search ""SNES emulator."" You will find one for under $5. Now go online and search ""Chrono Trigger ROM."" You can pirate the ROM for free. In contrast, the official, legal version of Chrono Trigger costs $9.99 to purchase from the Android Store. Now go get a ""Final Fantasy ROM"" for SNES. You saved $14.99 by not buying it from Square Enix via Google Play. By downloading the SNES emulator and ROMs, you're basically stealing from the developers by not having to pay them for a ""license"" to use their copyrighted work. This is *illegal.* My opponent makes some statement about how no one is ever sued for downloading emulators and ROMs so clearly it's legal. However, just because someone does not get sued does not make it legal. The entire Cydia App store (for jailbroken iPhones) is of questionable legality, but there are problems suing those companies. Many of them locate in countries with more liberal copyright laws, so they cannot be sued internationally. Some of them don't make enough total money to be worth suing. It's hard to ""catch"" someone downloading something in a way that would stick (which is why most people sued for music piracy were on college campuses, which assign a clear static IP to each user). And honestly, even music and movie lawsuits have gone ""out of mode."" You won't see them very often anymore because they are not an effective deterrent and not worth the effort for the industries involved (because no one can pay the hundreds of thousands of dollars in penalties under copyright law (per violation), it's not worth paying lawyers to sue these people). Also, ISP's have not been very compliant with furnishing information on alleged infringers, which makes them hard to find. The bottom line is that the lack of lawsuits is due to many factors, not the *legality* of the conduct. (2) Owning the physical video game does not give you the right to download a ROM When you buy a physical game cartridge, CD, or DVD, copyright law gives you the right to re-sell the physical game under the ""First Sale Doctrine"" [which holds that once someone sells a physical object (a ""first sale""), he or she cannot control what happens to the physical object after that]. However, someone who buys a CD does not acquire the right to make copies of the content on the CD. Just because you buy a DVD does not mean you can legally download an illegal version of the movie from PirateBay. The same applies to music. You may have to pay for the same content *twice* because you want it on different platforms (i.e. you pay once to have a song on Google Play, you pay again on iTunes, and you pay again to get access to the same song on Spotify). (3) Contributory infringement My opponent says the emulator itself isn't illegal without downloading ROMs. However, it is. There is a doctrine called ""contributory infringement,"" which holds that you can be held liable for violating copyright law even if you don't download any copyrighted material if you're using something that can basically only be used to support copyright infringement. [2] An ""SNES emulator"" can only be used to play illegal, pirated SNES games, so downloading it is illegal because the emulator has no substantial non-infringing use. [1] http://www.wipo.int... [2] http://www.law.cornell.edu..."	PRO	371
371	S6a618e4b-Ab7de52cb	Video Games Are Causing Violence In Children	"Thanks Con, 1. ""Many people after the Sandy Hook Shooting blamed violent video games on the shooters behavior because he tended to play them a lot. However that just wasn't the case, he was mentally unstable in the first place."" However we can connect, direct details, kids playing video games that directly relate to incidents. The shooter during Sandy Hook incident had games that he had played that directly relate to what had happened. ""As the report describes the game, ""the player controls a character who enters a school and shoots at students."" This was a game that Adam Lanza had played. A game that he controls a character and who enters a school and shoots at students. -- Directly related to what he did on that day. http://kotaku.com... Now, I wish for my opponent to provide a piece of evidence that EXPLICITLY SAYS there is NO WAY Adam Lanza, could've been influenced by video games to commit this horrendous crime. If my opponent cannot do this his statement ""That means that my opponents arguments (as of right now) are completely invalid. "" Is False because he cannot provide a piece of evidence that proves that what I have provided is in fact false. Also I would like to add, I have proof that based on a STUDY that was conducted, I have shown how games can also cause small or ""un-noticed"" violence. The 2008 study Grand Theft Childhood reported that 60% of middle school boys that played at least one Mature-rated game hit or beat up someone, compared to 39% of boys that did not play Mature-rated games. A study that supports my argument, that video games don't just influence Extreme Violence. 2. I would like to Rebut the following quote that my opponent had made. ""Actually this is false, as seeing he said that the child is being influenced, the parent is buying that game and placing that influence on the child."" Let's use a non-violent game here as a example so that this is neutral, and that I will be able to prove your statement wrong with a neutral example. Lets say that a parent goes and buys a Cooking Game for a kid. As Con states: ""the parent is buying that game and placing that influence on the child."" Ok, so a parent bought a cooking game for a kid. So now lets say this kid doesn't play this game at all. Will he be influenced by that game at all? NO. However lets say he does play that game, and now all of a sudden he wants to be a chef when he grows up! What had caused this Influence? THAT GAME. So now lets go to a example of a violent game. As Con states: ""the parent is buying that game and placing that influence on the child."" So a parent goes and buys a kid, Battlefield. He does not play it. How could now, a child whose parents bought him a violent video game, be influenced? But if he does play it, will he be influenced? Yes. And why? Because he had played that game. Not because the parents bought that game, but because he played the game. "" It just doesn't relate."" As Con stated in his opening argument. But some events do relate. And those? Are the ones that matter. All the voters, I have provided evidence that we can connect direct details about what kids are playing to big violence, and small ""unnoticed"" violence. We has humans are able to connect directly, relatable events, to more events. In this case Video Games to Violence."	PRO	372
372	S74862f47-A9da4153c	Video games should be censored	"Let me start by saying that even if we would like there to be no cuss words in games, guess what? You can't do anything about it either. Why? Because of the first amendment. It, as most people know, ""addresses the rights of freedom of religion (prohibiting Congress from establishing a religion and protecting the right to free exercise of religion), freedom of speech, freedom of the press, freedom of assembly, and freedom of petition"" (form wikipedia). As we do, all companies have these rights and we can do nothing about it. As such all games should be able to have language that might be, lack of a better word, strong. Also, game makers have rating companies (ESRB for example) rate the games on their content. This lets people know what to expect during game play, and if they don't want to be subjected to the language, they have a choice. From the evidence I have presented the only possible answer to this debate is that video games should NOT be censored. It is for these reasons that I strongly stand in the position of Con."	CON	373
373	S345406bd-Ab964b51	Video games make people aggressive	I believe that a lot of people think that video-games make people mad. I'm not talking about rage-quitting because you are bad at the game, I mean in general. I have constructed a test with my friends to see if violent/shooter games make you more aggressive. Half of them played violent games and the other half didn't (the test was for a week). The half that played never played shooter games before and they experienced no difference except for the fact that they now like shooter games. The half that normally played but wasn't because of the test had no difference in their attitude (they wanted to play though...). According to the results of the test no differences were found so obviously that can't be right. I also did my research and 12/18 websites/sources said it didn't cause aggression were as the other six said it did. http://www.debate.org... quote from theguardian.com So until there is more definitive evidence, it doesn't seem right to imply that there is a clear and known effect. And it certainly isn't right to tenuously highlight links between video game use and violent behaviour whenever it is vaguely possible to do so. It detracts from figuring out if there is another underlying cause instead.	CON	374
374	S78239cf0-A77a3bb1c	Emulators For Video Games Are Illegal	Remember that this is an informal debate and I will not be backing up my claims with sources until I gain more skill and experience in debating. Also that one must not take it extremely personal, as Phil Spencer has once said that fanboyism is unhealthy for not only for the video game market (or any market for that matter) and also for the self. You keep making arguments about copyright, piracy, and whether or not emulators are illegal, yet you fail to explain to me why many who develop emulators and sell them for free do not get dealt with by the law, or those that sell them but are not in any way associated or working for the company(ies) that made said games and platforms. You also intend to avoid answering to me why those that put up videos, forums, or sites on the internet teaching people how to emulate or show what emulated software looks like also do not get dealt with by the law. Funny how you keep rambling on about those but forget to answer these simple questions. See, I didn't even have to provide sources, statistics, equations, theories, or other complex crap to analyze your flaws, now did I? I know and understand how long the U.S. Copyright Act lasts, but what if I am emulating it in a country that has a copyright act that lasts shorter or does not apply to video games? Also, PONG is not the first video game ever made and video games first appeared in the late 1960's (though they were never called that until the 70's); pretty irrelevant, but just wanted to get that out for you. So you're telling me, after 70 years of the person's death (actually 75), I can emulate it? Sweet! I'll be living longer than them and with the advancement of science and technology (genetic engineering and cybernetics), I will be able to live long enough to pirate said material when it it no longer illegal. Sounds to me like you did research and lacked knowledge since debate (better than many fanboys I met) huh? You say it is not legal to emulate until 70 years after creator's death, yet you say that anything created is protected under copyright law? Wow, then by your logic, my rebuttal is now copyrighted; all of my debates are now copyrighted; all of my online profiles are now copyrighted; all of my school notes are now copyrighted... Okay, let me find a cure to cancer and write down the formula...oops! That formula is copyrighted and now not even the NSA can steal it from me and use it to benefit all of mankind and put pharmacies out of business, or else they broke the law and people should just forget about my huge contribution to the world! Again, you answer some and deny other of my questions of answers! I could get all of that for free on the Google Play, App Store, and Windows Market-Place through emulators provided by random people who do not have any relation to those said companies you mentioned. Why aren't they getting dealt with by the law? Why are they getting away with it scot-free? What about all of those knock-off games? Funny how opponent is agreeing with me on that yet disagrees with other arguments that are closely similar to this argument. I was never talking about Cydia; we can talk about that another time. You say that the law cannot catch them all because there are too much people committing those acts and the ISP's make it even more difficult, and not because of the legality of the conduct. Now you are just talking random crap that doesn't even relate to emulators and video games. You try your best to cover up your weak arguments with said sources, yet you still make weak arguments, whether or not how well you mask them. See, that's why I don't do that! Now you are saying other crap that I am well aware of. Bottom line: I can still emulate said games elsewhere; I do not necessarily have to emulate them through emulators and ROM's. Just like with CD's and DVD's, I can stream them through the internet or download them through video sharing websites and convert them to MP3 files. Let's be honest, without those sources and research, you would have lost. I am not going to do research because I will simply beat you with such an unfair advantage, so I am purposely handicapping myself to debate fair and square without any research or sources and simply on my knowledge alone.	CON	375
375	Sfc941f94-Ab6624329	why video games are good for you.	video games are the starting blocks of entertainment	PRO	376
376	Sf0a808a4-A856a1027	Video-Games Are Beneficial Towards Children	Video Games are indeed beneficial towards children mentally, physically, and psychologically. Video-Games have many benefits that many people are extremely ignorant of. Many benefits that video games offer to children can actually benefit them later in their life when they are adults, help them in their everyday lives, and do good for their bodies overall. There are many adults that are ignorant of such benefits and refuse to accept such benefits because they are gullible enough to believe in the negative stereotypes, myths, and stats that anti-gamers have created over the decades. The most obvious and main benefits include hand-eye coordination, development of important life-skills, and increasing your overall brain performance. Other benefits that are less obvious include increased intelligence, improved eye-sight, slowed down age process, social skills, diverse imagination and creativity, insight of many different concepts, improved literature skills, and also increased skills needed for many jobs such as surgeon and military soldier. These and other benefits can help children in many different ways that other activities cannot. (Please put what you put in the opinions section as your rebuttal or something similar...)	PRO	377
377	Sa90756e8-A265b7d02	There should be more restrictions on violent video games	"First of all, three of your four links are broken. Secondly, even if I believe you about your first point, which you haven't proven, should we restrict video games based on one study? When we talk about restrictions, we are talking about the people""s freedoms being restricted. We should have a lot of evidence before we think about doing that. Also, shouldn't it be the parents job to stop kids from playing video games. We already have laws in place to prevent minors from purchasing games, do we really need more? If a parent doesn't want their kids to play violent video games, then they won""t buy it. Why is it people think that the government needs to be parents? Parents should be parents. Lastly, many restrictions would be ineffective. Unless you totally ban violent video games, than any laws couldn't plausibly be enforced. It would be wrong to ban violent video games. That is taking away people""s rights. It would also be dumb to ban all violent video games in an attempt to stop minors from playing them. Should we ban alcohol completely because it can really screw kids up big time?"	CON	378
378	S2a9f4151-A1743373b	Video games(Pro) vs books (con)	"I accept. Observation A: When we talk about books, we refer to all books that contain words only; NO PICTURES! Observation B: All video games are acceptable EXCEPT for video games that have an open ""forge"" where one can create things on their own. These games are a bit unfair as they were made for imagination. Contention 1: Books allow for one to visualize scenarios and idea It is evident that with books creating visualizations with words, one's brain becomes better adapted to analyze and visualize unreal situations and places. The ability of getting concepts out of words is an amazing capability of the human mind. Reading more books generates more creativity as one becomes able to visualize concepts and pictures more easily, allowing them to be more creative. Contention 2: Video Games do not Generate Creativity Video games are often the classic tale of following an adventure and finished levels and missions. Thus, video games would not create any creativity as they are simply a sequence of events that other people have arranged for the creator. There is no creativity since you don't really use any analytical and perceptual parts of your brain. Rather, you use your brain's motor reflexes and decision-making parts. Therefore, video games do not generate creativity."	CON	379
379	Se9e7c17-A91bd4ca0	do video games cause viloence	do video games really cause violence?	PRO	380
380	S6a618e4b-Aa39e25b7	Video Games Are Causing Violence In Children	"Thanks Pro for the response. In this round we are just going to tie this all up and show why we have won this debate. Now I will begin to say why I have won. 1. Okay, so my opponent brought up Adam Lanza, or the horrible human being who killed 20 children and 6 adults. However, regardless of the evidence that my opponent has brought up, it does not even say that the video game that Adam Lanza was playing even was the MAIN CAUSE of the shooting. The resolution is proposing that video games are CAUSING violence. His evidence bites him back again as the evidence directly states, ""The fact remains that while the report's conclusion does not mention video games as any cause for Lanza's murderous rampage (nor does it speculate on any motive), one video game was, at least, part of the buffet of mass shooting news reports, books, and other media Lanza was consuming, according to evidence recovered from the home."" Again, voters, my opponent has brought up evidence that directly refutes his statements and his argument falls as mine stands regardless of the rebuttal. There is no, way, shape, or form that my opponent has brought up that a video game caused that mass shooting. Therefore you are just going to have to carry that to my side as a winning argument. 2. My opponent brought up grand theft childhood, and this again contradicts his statements. If you look at the myth category of the website, it says, ""The growth in violent video game sales is linked to the growth in youth violence "" especially school violence "" throughout the country."" And the fact is, ""Video game popularity and real-world youth violence have been moving in opposite directions. Violent juvenile crime in the United States reached a peak in 1993 and has been declining since. Between 1994 and 2004, arrests for murder, forcible rape, robbery and aggravated assaults fell 49 percent, resulting in the lowest juvenile arrest rate for violent crimes since at least 1980. Murder arrests, which reached a high of 3,790 in 1993, plummeted 71% to 1,110 by 2004. School violence has also gone down."" My opponent clearly has lost this point as he is completely contradictory of himself and you are going to keep this flowing to my side as VIDEO GAMES ARE NOT CAUSING VIOLENCE IN CHILDREN. 3. My opponent brought up my argument that parents are influencing the child when they buy the child that game. He brought up a cooking game and how that makes people want to be chefs, however, he would have never wanted to be a chef had it not been for his parents buying the game and letting him play it. In violent video games, it is the same case , therefore voters, you are just going to flow that to my side. 4. Now voters, please keep in mind that my opponent has failed to attack my correlation does not prove causation contention therefore dropping his case even further, and not attacking my third contention leads to an even further drop in his case as the studies are false and are contradictory of his statements. http://www.grandtheftchildhood.com... http://kotaku.com... Please vote con as his case is contradictory and holds no ground in this debate, he is completely contradictory of himself, and has failed to attack my second and third contention. I have deconstructed his case and have proven, WITH HIS OWN EVIDENCE that video games are not causing violence in children. Therefor, I must undoubtedly negate."	CON	381
381	Se927395d-A78372d93	Video games can actually be beneficial	"Let's do this. You assume the burden of proof by making the positive claim. I know that you have a powerful rebuttal waiting even though your first round makes it appear as though you don't. You'll just appeal to logical possibility. I'd like to make this debate somewhat interesting rather than an automatic bait win (lol). There's an important stipulation in the resolution: ""Video games can *actually* be beneficial"" Actually: ""1. as the truth or facts of a situation; really."" -adverb http://dictionary.reference.com... My contention is that nothing can *actually* be beneficial unless mankind has an objective purpose. If human beings have no objective purpose, video games cannot *actually* be beneficial because whatever is beneficial would be entirely subjective and not representative of true or factual benefit. If I wanted to die early it would be beneficial for me to do things that harm my health. The burden of proof rests on opponent so he must show that objective purpose for the human race is logically possible in order to show that video games can *actually* be beneficial. I will argue that objective purpose for the human race is logically impossible and therefore videogames *cannot* actually be beneficial."	CON	382
382	Sb381c0ed-A16d7d86	Video games do not cause children to commit crimes	"Con has forfeited and never stated any evidence that video games make kids depressed or aggressive. He didn't also site sources. My arguments still stand and have not been rebutted and stay on the topic con this about video games not TV Games have quadrupled 1995-2008 and there has been a massive drop in arrest record reports. Just to show the studies of video games say that ""children get into less physical fights"" this shows how video games do not cause our violence. If you banned video games there will be still more murders and school attacks 2. The Supreme Court went up against the government about trying to banned video games as shown in the link below gameshttp://usatoday30.usatoday.com... Like I said just banning video games there would be more mass murders and it will put lots of gaming industries out of money just because people think video games persuade children to criminal behavior. 3. Again to state that cons argument was wrong 'killing the people and animals' just exactly what I said still kill for ivory and animal skins and you cannot change that there will be still more and more poachers and about the killing of others that""s something that will continue to happen like rape, gun crimes, kidnapping will still happen no matter what. Not every video game has shooting in it. I would like to thank my opponent for this debate and hope he has a well written argument"	PRO	383
383	S3e67d226-Ae9a08c74	Video games are not a significant factor in mass shootings.	"Ave! Columbine Even if Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold wrote about bullying other people, it says nothing about whether they themselves were bullied or not. People can bully other people and be bullied themselves. TD_Cole gives us no reason to think that this isn't possible. His argumentation is severely flawed. Do video games lead to violence in youth? In this round, TD_Cole brings up reasearch from Iowa State Universit to try and show that video games lead to violence and violent acts in youth. This idea is overtly false. The Boston News published an article by Jim Morrison called ‘’Local law enforcement officials see drop in juvenile crime’’. This article discusses the decline in juvenile crime in Massachusetts, and how the decline correlates with the FBI’s nationwide crime reports. Last year, over two hundred million video games were sold. If video games cause youth violence, then why is youth violence declining, as the number of video games bought increases? [1] Jon Katz lucidly articulates this view in the book ‘’Crime and Criminals’’. He writes, ‘’If Bok’s right, why do FBI statistics show violence among the youth plummeting to its lowest level since Prohibition, while violence imagery in media has indeed been increasing, along with cable programming and usage, movie attendance, and the advent of the net?’’. (2001) [2] 70% of U.S. households play video games (Crum 2013). If video games truly lead to violent acts, then we should be expecting some type of apocalypse with such a high number. Instead, youth violence is declining as more people start to play video games every year. Where is the increase in violence among youth? Nowhere, because video games are not a cause. [3] The research discussed in the NY Daily News is also interesting when it comes to youth violence. Consider the fact that millions of teenagers hang out with their friends and play popular games like Halo and Call of Duty. If playing video games with your friends leads to increase cooperativeness and decreased aggression, then video games are actually making youth less likely to be violent. Gun Training TD gives us a very weak argument. Video games teach people to use guns because they increase hand-eye coordination? Putting aside the fact that the link between improved H/I coordinaton and video games is not solid, it's a non-sequitur to suggest that this would also teach somebody how to fire a weapon. He also suggets that video games put ideas into people's heads that cause them to perpetrate mass shootings. He doesn't give any evidence for this. Using Hitchen's razor, that which can be asserted without evidence can be dismissed without evidence. [4] Axiom Extended. References [1] Morrison, Jim. ""Local Law Enforcement Officials See Drop in Juvenile Crime."" N.p., n.d. Web. [2] Katz, Jon. Crime and Criminals. San Diego: Greenhouse, 2000. Print [3] Crum, Chris. ""WebProNews - Breaking News in Tech, Search, Social, & Business."" WebProNews - Breaking News in Tech, Search, Social, & Business. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Feb. 2013. http://www.webpronews.com.... [4] http://en.wikipedia.org... Vale!"	PRO	384
384	S3b7f3588-A73ceaf50	The Way video games are demonized in the news	First I want to say I have enjoyed this debate and this is a good topic. Now I want to talk about one more thing witch I think is the reason the news demonizes it. Some games are easy to download and you don't need that much info to get it. These M rated games are on adds everywhere on your computer. Some kids secretly download them on their laptops. If you were a parent and you found out your child was playing M rated games on their computer. The fact that anyone can download these of course there is going to be something bad in the news about it. But video games can get great reviews on the news too. On these servers Like minecraft you cant track this sort of stuff. Some of these servers are owned by multiple people so kicks bans are harder and they cant monitor thousands of people all at once. This is why video games will be looked somewhat bad in the news.	PRO	385
385	Se9b44971-A63659aed	Are Video Games really bad for people? 2	In this round, I will attempt to prove that video games can be bad in a few ways. 1.) Video games can cause violence in younger children. Video games can cause children to be violent if they play games that they shouldn't play, such as GTA 5 or Call of Duty. Typically, children who are allowed to play these games don't have very good parents to help tell them right from wrong, so they don't know that the violence and violent ideas in video games are bad. So then they grow up and do bad things because they think it's ok. 2.) Video games are unhealthy. Video games can be very unhealthy because of the lack of exercise. Most video game counsels have a controller that doesn't require movement. True, modern systems come with some sort of tracking camera, like the Xbox Kinnect, the ps4 camera, or the Nintendo sensor bar. But, there aren't very many games that the typical gamer would want to play that needs these accessory. 3.) Bad grades People who play games often have bad grades, as they often concentrate on games instead of doing schoolwork to get good grades. And when they aren't playing games, they are thinking of them at school instead of paying attention. So these are my contentions, and these are the websites I used. I had a good time debating with you. Good luck and good sportsmanship! http://www.myaddiction.com... http://www.familyresource.com...	PRO	386
386	S3e67d226-Af0c54901	Video games are not a significant factor in mass shootings.	"This is a post from the NY times and I quote, ""The young men who opened fire at Columbine High School, at the movie theater in Aurora, Colo., and in other massacres had this in common: they were video gamers who seemed to be acting out some dark digital fantasy. It was as if all that exposure to computerized violence gave them the idea to go on a rampage "" or at least fueled their urges."" http://www.nytimes.com...; Which shows that they have one thing in common, video games. Which means something could have been triggered inside their minds that could of lead to these unfortunate events. Which makes video games a significant factor for even looking at. Axion? Do you mean Axiom? ax""i""om /ˈaksēəm/ Noun A statement or proposition that is regarded as being established, accepted, or self-evidently true. A statement or proposition on which an abstractly defined structure is based. These studies are the top 25 studies that are one violent video games. http://kotaku.com... Note not every study says the conclusion is that after playing violent video games teens became more aggressive but others have. Which means in fact that it could play a factor in deciding whether or not video games is indeed a factor in massacres. Pointing out the fact that those massacres brought up they all had in common, they were video gamers. ""Video games and personality- The American Psychological Association published a press release in 2010 that discussed the current research about video games. It cited research by Dr. Patrick Markey, which """"determined that a certain combination of personality traits can help predict which young people will be more adversely affected by violent video games."""" If this research is true, then the role that the player""s personality has on the consequences of video game use cannot be denied. It""s not the violence in the video game that causes mass shootings or violent crime, but it""s the person who plays the game.[2]"" So if it triggered something in one whom's personality that led to the massacres themselves then that would make it a starting out point for them to act based on the video game. They were gamers so with that actually being said it's a contradicting statement. It's the person that plays the game but in terms the video game triggered that one personality trait that would make them do that. How does anyone stop someone from becoming more violent? Don't allow them to be around violence. Video games role-play a lot of different things, one of them is violence and in many different ways. Sandy Hook - Your argument is about video games not being a factor everything you just stated about that suggests it was because of playing violent video games, has a disorder, and lived in a basement. Those are the three main things you suggested and by that being said it proved to be said video games are a part of the factor that lead to this tragedy. Keep going though, your disproving your own case."	CON	387
387	Sdfeb7990-A1dbd7a9d	Video games (pro) vs books (con)	Scientists proved that over 50% of people who play video games have good eyesight and also more people today buy video games then books so If you had a job making video games you could get rich fast	PRO	388
388	S9a1a8408-A2ff8e326	Video games are a serious art form.	Since we are on the subject of advices I'd like my opponent to know when someone is providing actual debate arguments and when they are talking metaphorically or in imagery in order to wrap up or emphasize the actual argument. I'll get to that in a moment. Let's get on to rebuttals. In my conclusion I intended to give a broad overview over the effects of art, but the initial definition of art, unchallanged by my opponent, still stands as an argument video games can fit under. In the first example he states that video games, just because they are interactive, are not art. That art must be unchanging. I strongly oppose to this notion for a number of reasons. interaction Firstly it implies that digital art is the only interactive art medium, which is not true by a long shot. Interactive art has existed for thousands of years, and the most basic example is theatre in which the audience can choose between several separate endings or plot devices when the actors prompt them to. Same can be told on certain novels and some films. Other medium, books for instance, leave the ending to be open and giving the reader a choice on how to interpret the story: such as Life of Pie[2001]. Poems are also vague and open to a lot of speculation and interaction from the audience and thus are changing viewer from viewer. a lot of art has utilized the audiences as a part of the art and/or produces different results and artistic forms depending on the time and position of the person viewing the piece. To say that art must be static and unchanging is incorrect in a plethora of ways and in no accepted definition of art will you find that to be a requirement. It also implies that because of the interactive medium it always has a way to manipulate the narrative. This is also incorrect. No matter how often you'll play trough a game you will in most cases end up with the same narrative, the same ending, the same events. The game developer envisions how the story unfolds and there is little the player can do to change that. He has a little wiggle room but only as much as the developer wants him to have. Dear Esther[2012] for instance gives the player no room to affect the narrative, it is arguably the least game like video game ever released, focusing entirely on narrative. The audience, just like with other art, can only interact with the art as long as the developer wants them to. No matter how quickly you managed to play trough Silent Hill 2, no matter how many corners you cut, the main ending is still the same: the storyline is still what the developer envisioned, you're still experiencing an artwork as the artist intended. The desire to beat the game is just the same desire as wanting to read the rest of the book. You want to see how the story unfolds, you want to see what happens next and how it all ends. The missions are a bonus, as before noted. Interactivity is not something art can not posses, and the fact that we must use a set of rules to advance the game does not exclude it from being an art. I can create a game that places heavy critique on human society and in fact a lot of games do that, intentionally or not. Remember, A video game, as with art, is whatever the artist wishes it to be. Not only does art not have to express no meaning at all and still be art (The Mona Lisa for instance portrays no message) but it can just as well be art on the base on the pleasure it brings to the viewer. Video games are programmed to do what the designer wants them to do: If he wants to portray a message, so be it. Co-operation of art Firstly, yes, Music has been influenced by video games often.[2,3,4]. As has other medium of art[round 1 and source 5]. However I would like to note at this point that art does not have to be able to influence other medium of art. My opponent did deny he said that, but I'm afraid he did. “Video games do not influence art forms.„ That is anabsolute statement. You said, without any room for changing, that video games are incapable of influencing other medium of art. Even if we where to accept that this was an exaggeration it is still incorrect. I'd like to note that video games have influenced film culture, produced countless films, comics, merchandise, artistic videos, each other, and even reached into science and biology (sonic gene, WOW plague, pikachurin e.t.c). paintings have been made after games and so on and so forth. My opponent then attempted the following two points: All music is instrumental It is tempting to drop this for music requires no form of vocals to be art: otherwise you're dismissing next to every single musical piece ever produced. The entire classical era, the orchestra he himself used as an example, four seasons by Vivaldi and so on . Listening to for instance the piece I linked does not reveal that it is a video game track, but could be considered artistic on its own. Music is intended to set the tone of the environment, just as real music intends to set the mood for the listener. It deserves more attention than an elavatior tune as it changes the game completely. Turn the audio off for a game and play it. It is not the same experience, just as watching 2001 without sound does not create the intended effect. About the 5 star orchestra, I'm dropping that, as it was an exaggeration to emphasize the quality of the tracks, not a literal comment that I was unable to tell the difference between the two. On the visual note: Does it have to do so? Is it comparible? This is art, painted by Picasso: You see that it is not the same style and arguably the same quality as The last supper. I still find it to be art. But in what way is Braid not art? Here is a tricky one: is this a screen shot from a video game or eastern painting[7]? The rest of the arguments: The “offer art to your door” was emphasize, not an argument. Dropped. Films entertain you. Why are they less of an art? Books entertain you, poetry entertains you, pop music entertains you, they are all medium for art in your definition. So far every single unofficial definition of art you have brought is fulfilled by several video games, this one included. As good as refuted. The point with Heavy Rain was to show that games can and are often emotional, they often have the power to make players question their own choices, to think and wonder what would happen if they where in that situation. I've cried over a video game, I've been strung along like a puppet and I've been immersed into a single dictated feeling the game wanted me to feel. Art has the primary objective to be able to make a player Feel or Think. Games can do that, just as all other art medium can. Suddenly the con suggest that games are not a High artform.So, it's an art form, but not good art? Not only is this indirect concession to the debate, but it is wrong. So far the only thing my opponent has done is comparing what he thinks are pinnacles of other art medium, a cherry pick that really is worthless in a debate. The great gatsby is a great book, all right. How about Twilight? Is there still no other game better as art? How about Modern art where a blue canvas and white line is art? Would you not agree that Flower Is a much more enjoyable title to relax and look at? How about anything C.L Dean does[6]? Is the Last of Us really a lesser art form? either all books are art or none in that logic, and so it is fallacious. Art is not a fixed boundry: con has failed to disprove without doubt that games are art: and in fact I have shown that it is an artform in its own right and methods, with the ability to fit all definitions. Art is art, visually, skillfully, imaginative and audiovise: Art is the expression of skill, thought, emotion and ideas, and games are no exception when it comes to creating the vision of the artist. http://en.wikipedia.org... http://www.1up.com... http://goo.gl... http://goo.gl... http://goo.gl... http://goo.gl... http://goo.gl...	PRO	389
389	S59470aa6-A9bf01df0	Video Games teach you life skillz	"To begin with I would like to point out that Pro copy and pasted the entire argument from the link that he provided. Pro states that video games teach strategy, the problem with this argument is that it takes minimum knowledge and strategy to play one of the popular video games. Although there are some interesting and strategizing games like Bejeweled, Picross and Brain Age, the majority of the selling video games do not incorporate strategy overmuch. Call of Duty, League of Legends, Halo, Mario, Watchdogs, etc. does not incorporate a lot of strategy. The main problem with this argument is that kids do not like games that require a person to think, they are content with pressing buttons and mowing down enemies. Statistics to back that up is that League of Legends has more than 32 million different active players in a month, has more than 12 million daily players, and adds a billion hours every month, and has more than 4.1 million Facebook likes, I challenge you to find statistics of a strategic video game that exceeds this. Pro also believes that video games teach perseverance. But does it? Let's face it in real life video games that need a significant amount of strategic thinking don""t really sell well. No one would want to play a game where you fail a lot, although parents would encourage the playing of such video games, children absolutely detest these games, and unless it""s really popular, it wouldn't be so successful. Pro also states that video games teach good decision making, a major flaw in this argument is that there are many different types of decision making. The definition of a life skill as stated by dictionary.com is: ""the ability to cope with stresses and challenges of daily life, esp. skills in communication and literacy, decision-making, occupational requirements, problem-solving, time management and planning"". The decision on whether to use your grenade of a rifle is does not enhance the quick decision making you need to buy stocks on Wall Street, nor does it improve your reflexes on how to get out of a sticky situation. Video games do on some level make you feel ""smart"". But this smartness does not transfer over to life skills, learning something new also makes you feel ""smart"" and while making you feel smart, it does actually make you smarter. Whereas video games do not make you any smarter in the academic field, making it unwanted. I look forward to hearing your side of the debate. Sources: http://www.destructoid.com... http://dictionary.reference.com..."	CON	390
390	S1cddf538-Aa58b8ff0	Piano is more qualified to be a sport than video games.	"My opponent first says that video games have a lot of variety. Firstly, that doesn't even aid his point and secondly, if we really want to get into variety, video games certainly don't have the most. Piano can play almost every genre of music. Writing has many different genres too. The variety of all of those don't matter because that doesn't aid either activity to qualifying for a sport. Then my opponent says that what sets them apart is that video games can be judged by a bot. Being judged by a bot doesn't matter when qualifying for a sport. Many sports are not judged by bots. Here is the definition of sport. ""an activity involving physical exertion and skill in which an individual or team competes against another or others for entertainment."" So now we know that skill, physical exertion and competition is needed for a sport. Since I am trying to prove that piano is more qualified than video games to be a sport, I will prove that in those three categories. Piano is more physically exerting than video games. There's no denying it. Watch these videos of professional people playing video games and playing the piano. https://m.youtube.com... https://m.youtube.com... Which one looked more physically exerting? It's plain obvious that piano is more physically exerting than video games. The two professional gamers were literally just staring at a computer while the pianist was playing literally so fast that her arms were a blur. As for competition, literally everyone who majors in music and is majoring in piano is competing against every other pianist in the world. Every professional pianist is competing for the top spot. To be a world class pianist. Because unlike video games, being a world class pianist is a career that actually lasts. Being a professional video gamer is short and you are usually replaced soon enough. Sure there's video game tournaments but those are on a small level. Piano competition is on a global level where being the best means not only topping world class pianists in the present but also keeping that title in the future. Video game competition is nothing like competing to be well known in the musical world. Not only when you become the best at your instrument are you trying to keep it that way, you're also competing against all the other world class musicians, vying for people's attention. As for skill, its quite clear if you watched the videos which one has more skill. Playing a technically difficult piano piece can use up to 380 distinct motor actions per second. Around 19-30 notes can be played in under a second for challenging pieces. Many pages have to be memorized. This isn't the ""pat your head and rub your belly"" kind of thing which is what video games are. It's kind of like writing in cursive with both hands at the same time. The skill it takes to write a piano piece is a lot more than the skill it takes to build a house in Minecraft. You actually have to study to be able to even read music. Video games require absolutely nothing. Some video games don't even require a lot of skill. There's no memorizing thirty pages of notes that have to be remember in their exact order, there's no having to read symbols in video games in order to play the video game. The skill it takes to play a video game is minuscule compared to the skill it takes to play the piano. I have proven through the three factors that are required for a sport that piano is more qualified. Judging by a bot has nothing to do with what should be a sport and what shouldn't. Soccer isn't judged by a bot, its judged by a referee. Does that mean its not a sport?"	PRO	391
391	S5afbee5a-Aae42d1a3	The world would be better off without video games.	"Video games are one of the most important games in history. in 1951, Ralph Baer was to make a TV and got ideas for this. Did you know there are educational video games, too? Kids can play them for an appropriate amount of time to learn more, as well as for entertainment. According to some Dutch researchers they ""suggest that not only do the newer video games provide young people with compelling social, cognitive, and emotional experiences, they also can potentially boost mental health and well-being."" Moreover, kids can react when they meet conflicts in the real world. A study from Education Development Center and the U.S. Congress-supported Ready To Learn (RTL) Initiative found out video games improve literacy skills, letter recognition (younger kids) and so on. Games that includes teamwork and independence are also good for teens, since they are growing up. This motion must fall."	CON	392
392	S8db68a9b-A245d3c21	Video games encourage violent behavior	"I think most people have seen these two clips before. This next one is extremely epic The next link is just a search on youtube of ""boyfriend gets angry playing"" Flashing light cause migraines, and migraines come from stress. You can find several stress inducing factors on this website including flashing light, stress let down,excitement, anger, fear, and anxiety which are all factors that may be incurred from playing video games. Although violence does not occur in every one after playing a video game, I do not need to prove it is 100% true for everyone, only that it is a factor just as Drunk Driving does not always result in a car accident. Or that Alcohol is not the only cause of domestic violence, but it is a leading factor You have already provided research claiming that video games are a factor in encouraging violence, but you have provided no other information other than you don't believe it. Believing doesn't make it true or not true. Evidence makes it true. here is a particularly innocent game called unfair Mario I don't really consider the graphic to be all that violent but time and time again, it cause anger and violence. One is a specific video of the violence and anger, the other is the link so you can search other events https://www.youtube.com... I also wanted to share a specific video of a girl talking trash while playing Xbox but there were just too many commonalities to only share one, so pick your poison. https://www.youtube.com... but the overall use of fire arms in violent crimes are not directly related to video games."	PRO	393
393	S14d329fa-Addc4e84a	are video games bad for children at an early age	"Accepted! Adil Muhammad from the State of Qatar When it comes to video game addiction, what are the disadvantages? Obviously this sounds like a ridiculous question. If something is considered an addiction isn""t it often associated as a negative? Does this video game addiction : internet addiction & wilderness therapy programassociation itself make it a disadvantage? The disadvantages lie in the specific qualities a video game addiction can conjure or impede. In recent years the interactive game has become an amazing development in the area of image quality, realism, interactivity, and the variety of games available to users. These advancements have led children and young adults to spend more of their time gaming and less time together sharing with one another. The following are a few of the disadvantages that can come with a video game addiction: Personal physical health can be seriously impacted from poor video gaming habits. Gamers become lazy and neglect necessary activities such as exercise, eating healthy and proper foods, damaged eyesight, headaches and the inability to sleep. Video games can negatively affect the mental health of gamers. Focussing one""s attention on video games requires all their attention and leads to a reduced contact with the environment around. This can also lead to a lack of interest in daily activities and hobbies. Furthermore, gamers become isolated in their addiction and lack the necessary social interaction with families and friends. Spending many hours in front of a screen and not enough social interaction can also cause social problems thus resulting in gamers becoming shy and introvert. Many of the games developed today are more violent, leading gamers with the tendency to lose control and become more aggressive. A new research has proved that excessive playing of video games can actually stunt the growth of a human brain. While there are games that can stimulate brain activity in both the left and right hemispheres of the frontal lobe. The frontal lobe of the brain is associated with learning, memory and emotion and continues to develop till the age of 20. This raises a level of concern as brain development is imperative during those crucial years. Too much of something can always harm you. This rule also applies to video games. Playing video games too often and for too long can harm you in more than one way. Many people argue that video games are ruining the lives of many children in today""s world. This is because they have no restrictions on what they play and how long they play it. Many video games these days include a lot of weaponry and, and an objective that involves killing or having to injure someone. Of course it would be terrible if a child killed someone in the real world, so why should killing them in the virtual world be any different? According to Violent Video Games (2010), ""playing violent video games can make some adolescents more hostile, particularly those who are less agreeable, less conscientious and easily angered"". The disadvantages that are so commonly packaged with the word ""video game"" only come out in a child with the excessive use of them. There are good and bad games, and good and bad ways to use them (Chatfield, 2010). Blake (2006) found that ""When kids play these games and see their favorite character commit some type of violent action, they want to repeat it"". Another negative affect that video games have on children is that they can put a bad image of women into their heads. Blake (2006) discovered that, ""Women are not usually used in video games, and when they are, their purpose is usually sex appeal"". This causes children to think of women as just good looking objects to have sexual relations with. Another disadvantage of video games is that it causes children to be isolated from the social world around them. Whenever they are at home the child will go straight to the gaming console or computer. Also, while they are at school or somewhere else outside of the house, all they can focus on is thinking about how they are going to beat that next level once they get home. According to Blake (2006), ""It causes the student not to care about grades or learning and to want to stay as far away from the real world as possible because of how much the player likes the videogame world"". Video games can have many bad affects if not limited. It is crucial for parents to limit their children""s video game intake, in order to avoid the horrible affects that it causes. irstly, let""s consider the health repercussions of video games. Sitting in one place, moving your fingers or thumbs around, cannot be good for health. According to research, playing video games increases the risk of various diseases including heart diseases, arthritis, diabetes and many more. In addition, usually when sitting in one place, one tends to munch on snacks, and these are not the healthy ones! Too many calories with too little exercise results in obesity. Obesity can increase your risk of heart attacks and diabetes, high blood pressure etc. So, a healthy life is out of the window and this is the main disadvantage of playing video games. Secondly, video games are addictive. All you care about is forging ahead to the next level. You sit and play for many hours and forget about everything else. All you care about is overcoming your obstacles in order to get to the next level. So, the moment you come home, you switch on your game and sit and play because you really cannot think of anything else. Your friends call you to go out, your term paper is due in a few weeks and all you that is on your mind is your video game. You are falling behind in your academic studies and you don""t care. This form of addiction is another disadvantage of video games. Computer vision syndrome is a condition many computer users get by staring at a computer screen the whole day. This is not a specific problem; rather it is a range of eyestrain and pain associated with frequent computer use. This is similar to carpal tunnel syndrome. Continued focus on one thing can strain the eye muscles. It is very different to the focus you give when reading because a computer screen has a glare in the background, the screen flickers from time to time etc. Most often, constant use of computers or video games can cause blurred vision, double vision, headaches and eye irritation all related to computer vision syndrome. Video games can have many disadvantages for children. For example, according to research, violent games produce aggressive children. Playing video games that have a lot of shooting and killing in them increases children""s anger and brings out aggressive behaviour. So, does this mean playing video games has to stop? No. It simply means that we must know when to stop and say ""that""s it! I""m done for today"". We must be able to get up and walk away, have a good social life and lead a healthy life. These are far more crucial than a game. https://www.google.com... https://sites.google.com... http://www.essaywow.com..."	PRO	394
394	S46642c87-Af214a224	Violent video games desensitize individuals to real violence	"Violent video games desensitizes individuals, causing them to take real violence lightly. People habituate the video game violence and become physiologically numb to it. Nicholas Carnagey, an Iowa State psychology instructor and research assistant, and ISU Distinguished Professor of Psychology Craig Anderson collaborated on the study of ""The Effects of Video Game Violence on Physiological Desensitization to Real-Life Violence"" with Brad Bushman, a former Iowa State psychology professor now at the University of Michigan, and Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam. 257 college students, 124 men and 133 women, were tested individually. After measuring their heart rate and galvanic skin response and asking questions about their video game preferences and general aggression levels, a participant were exposed to of eight randomly designated violent or nonviolent games for 20 minutes. The four possible violent games were Carmageddon, Duke Nukem, Mortal Kombat or Future Cop; the non-violent games were Glider Pro, 3D Pinball, 3D Munch Man and Tetra Madness. After the 20 minute duration, the test subjects were subjected to the same tests. Participants were then asked to watch actual violent episodes constructed from TV episodes and commercially-released films in the contexts of courtroom outbursts, police confrontations, shootings and prisons fights. Physiological differences were observed throughout the entire viewing. When viewing the actual images of violence, participants that played the violent video games had a significantly less skin response than those that had played nonviolent video games. In addition, the participants that had played the violent video games had a lower heart rate than those that played noviolent video games. The people that participated in the experiment had no discrepancy in heart rate or skin response before the beginning of the study or immediately after playing the assigned games The results demonstrate that only 20 minutes of exposure can cause people to be less aroused by violence. If you wish to verify this study or this information, go to http://www.sciencedirect.com... or http://www.public.iastate.edu... Hope you accept this debate!"	PRO	395
395	S6f8c5872-Aa1bc9adb	Video games are a better source of entertainment than movies	"""You can use a tool to watch movies too you have a remote control and you also have different buttons you can operate on netflix. "" The problem is the best you can do with remotes is change the volume, Change where you are at the movie, Pause and that is it. With a controller it is more interactive due to the amount that can be done. Lets take a generic first person shooter. You can use x to jump, Square to reload, Triangle to change weapon, R1 to fire, R2 to use a grenade, L1 to aim, L2 to use secondary throw-able item. That is not all of it but it does give more control to the user which allows them more freedom in what they are viewing and interacting. ""It's better going to the movie theatres than sitting all day playing a video game because if you play it too much you could get tired of it. "" Subjective and also you can get tired of watching the movie the second time if you are watching a bad movie. You stated time as in favour of my side. By you mentioning ""all day"" you are already conceding that you can spend more time on video games compared to movies due to how much better video games are at keeping the user interested. At best a movie lasts for 3 hours which is short to the all-day video games length of 12 hours or more if you decide to skip sleep. ""You can also rewatch movies and catch things that you haven't missed. "" You can also replay video games and catch things that you have missed. This applies more toward video games than movies. Video games can and do offer different ways of completing. If the options are so different and good it can warrant the user to play again just to see what the user missed. ""It's better and more entertaining rewatching movies than replaying video games. "" Subjective so basically I can say it is better to play video games and since there are only two people debating it would end with a draw."	PRO	396
396	S46642c87-Aebb3ff98	Violent video games desensitize individuals to real violence	"Violent video games do not cause individuals to take real violence lightly. Habitual video game players are not physiologically numb to real violence. You cited a paper arguing for this conclusion with serious methodological flaws and are attempting to use it to draw a conclusion it does not actually permit. Ones physiological responses to any stimuli diminish after prolonged exposure to a stimuli. If you play violent video games or watch snuff you will have a reduced response to it. The study in question establishes quite well that video games and videos of violence are processed in the same way. I'm sure you could use violent movies to find the same triggers. The huge flaw here is that such studies assumes humans cannot contextualize stimuli. Watching hardcore porn is a different experience than having sex. Similarly, watching violence, either computer graphics, movies, or snuff is completely different than ""real violence"". The study in question is finding that videos of violence and video games of violence are processed as similar ways. Duh. If one wishes to properly find a connection to show such stimuli it shouldn't be done purely in a cushy lab. Have one set of people play violent video games for an hour and then rush in, point a gun to their head, proceed to beat them with baseball bats, and rape them. Do the same to the control group without the violent video game and see if there is a difference. -- Implicitly even reading this you should be horrified in exactly the same way and realize that the video game is a moot point. Humans aren't stupid. We understand that it's a video game, that movie monsters can't hurt us, and that videos are images of things not happening now and not threatening us. This line of psychological work is seriously flawed. The video game industry is massive in Japan. Seriously, that's where we get our video games. They have an astoundingly minute amount of violence. Many soldiers in Iraq and other places have grown up playing violent video games. Seeing real violence first hand they are returning with post traumatic stress disorder in droves. Nobody ever gets post traumatic stress disorder from a video game or videos of violence. Video violence, violent movies, and video games are terrible analogs for the real violence."	CON	397
397	S6ba1043a-Ac8b046d6	Religion causes more violence than video games	"I will just summarize everything that we have discussed hoping that the voters will see that religion does not cause violence but rather violence is present in abundance in today's video games. 1. Religion (Religious Texts/Scrolls, teachings and stories) - reading a religious book (Bible or The Quran) does not require a age level to be met; - religion was written by scholars, educated individuals, with the intent of providing teaching for the good; - in our day's these holy texts are still being analyzed giving further insight into their meaning; - religion brings people together to pray and read in silence; - provides the backbone to the current ""Human Rights"" declaration; 2. Video Games - most of today's video games require you to be of a certain age in order to play due to the violence present (even so, you are actively participating in this violence); - video games can be seen as entertaining, therefore it sends a subliminal message to your brain (google GTA in real life) - video games keep people apart, in the instance when they are playing together it creates tensions (go ahead and play Mario GO Kart with someone else beside you) - video games don't have any positive impact on the youth (well other than it teaches them the language hehe) VOTE FOR CON!! :)"	CON	398
398	S9b628f42-A1be73dbc	Homework is better than video games	"Thank you for your response, Let's see what we have here ""But 99% is not successful"" Are you talking about parents being successful to stop addiction or the success of the child in adulthood? Because both of those are wrong ""If others give you stress you are not going to be fond of it! "" Here's what I meant: If your mother constantly stresses you out to do homework because you won't be successful, Then you will be addicted to homework, Constantly fearing that you won't be successful ""99% of parents are unable to stop their child. "" Okay so it is about parents. . . . Which is wrong. You are the parent, You decide what you child does, If you see he/she play a bit too much videogames, You can tell her/him to take a break. Also that a very bold statistic you have there ""If you are an adult, Well, The case is much worse as you aren't supervised by anyone and you can easily get yourself addicted! "" If you are a well raised adult or just an adult with common sense then you won't get addicted. You're saying that the adult isn't supervised, So that means they're in a house of their own, Which they have to pay rent for, Which they have to work for. . . ""You said the game puts you into a whole new world. See? That makes it easy to let you forget your realistic side and cause you to become an addict! "" Blaming the video-games for a person's responsibility, I can predict that you will do that a lot ""You also pointed out that video games do not cause stress. Well, Mentally, Yes, But it does cause physical stress. "" Again, Blaming the video-games for a person's responsibility. Also you can quit video-games, Homework? Not so much A person addicted to homework will also cause mental stress AND physical stress. I point this out because you like putting addiction into your arguments Your turn"	CON	399
399	Sd761a450-A319be895	Video games are art	"But, as you said ""it is possible"", There is nothing to stop anyone to appreciate the video games beauty as art. The design gives the form of the game, but the art style gives it a personality, like Cup Head, it's a platform game game, but it looks like a 1930's cartoon. Zelda Breath Of The Wild, it's an open world but with a cartoon style. Resident Evil 7, it's an horror game and it's realistic, with some graphic and sound elements to give the player the sense of constant danger (but RE7 at the beginning Capcom does great, but then it's predictable and eliminates that sense of danger, more like action, but predictable). And there are more art styles than these I mentioned earlier. Just to show you some games that can be considered art: Good to debate with you."	PRO	400
400	S1cddf538-A4a85013c	Piano is more qualified to be a sport than video games.	Video games include games of all devices and genres. First point- video games is a competitive sport that can be judged by bots.	CON	401
401	S7f95546c-A760d338f	Video games are not a significant cause of violence in children	"To begin my argument, I first like to bring up some points my opponent has brought up on why Video Games are not a significant cause of violence. My opponent brought up other types of reasoning's of why video games are not the significant problem towards the violence in children; examples being television and school. But I must ask my opponent one question, dealing with his arguments, being: ""Do Video Games cause technically cause violence""? Before continuing into my argument, I would like to define a few key words within the topic. The biggest one being video games, meaning: ""A game played by electronically manipulating images produced by a computer program on a television screen or other display screen"". Then there is violence, which is defined as: ""Behavior involving an action intending to hurt, damage, or kill someone or something"". My opponent, in most video games nowadays, isn't the goal resulting in any of the three aspects of violence when playing a video game? So isn't already causing most violence among children, when actually just plying the game? If you reply with ""no"", then you clearly do not see the point that video games are a significant cause in violence among children; because of its heavy popularity in modern media. Stated in a statistic on ABC News, and the website ""Education"", the amount of video games played by children in 2014 was around 91%. That is a huge population of children, which practically makes up most of the U.S, and in another statistic; it states that the average amount of time played on a video game was about 13.5 hours. The reasoning of why is typically because of adults having their own responsibilities, and parents needing a way to ""distract"" kids from bugging them. A video game is the simple solution for the parents task. The games the child plays varies, but most video games either have some element of violence or is within the ""cool trend"" among children. The most recipient, with the influence of the ""cool-trend"", typically rely among teenagers. The ages between 13 to 16 years old. The games typically played by this audience involves either ""Action"", or ""Shooters""; like stated in the Sales of Video Game Genres in 2014. The most selling either being Call of Duty or Assassin's Creed, two of the most violent games within the market. My opponent may question why parents do not take these away from their children? It seems so simple, and it is, but most parents do not understand the Rating System in games. In another statistic stated on ""PBS"", it states that close to 90% of parents do not look at the Rating System within games because of being ""too stressed"" as an adult. Supporting one of my previous arguments. In my opponents previous argument, he brought up that there are more other influences than just video games. To counter argue his statement, let me please share another statistic. Under an article, titled ""Kids stay indoors: What happened to, ""Go outside and play"""", it states that more children stay inside than outside. The exact percentage, being 72%, states that kids rather stay inside, than outside; disproving my opponents argument of being influenced on the outside. As well as in another article titled ""Why do Kids Love Video Games"", it states that children were surveyed about whether they like to watch TV or play video games. 87% said that they preferred to play video games, over watching television, because of having an interactive experience within the room; instead of just sitting and watching a screen. As it is seen, my opponents previous arguments that he has brought up are actually false, than true. Video games is the popular media in society nowadays, and is mostly the target audience of many companies. If my opponent claims its because of other reasoning's, why are video games ""pushed"" away; even though being the most popular trend within the United States? Sources: http://www.pbs.org... http://www.statista.com...- http://abcnews.go.com... http://www.education.com... http://www.pbs.org... https://www.minnpost.com... http://learningworksforkids.com..."	CON	402
402	S4f2fe78e-A58c4a21e	Video games make children More violent	"Do Violent Video Games Increase Aggression? Studies have shown that playing violent video games can increase aggressive thoughts, Behaviors, And feelings in both the short-term and long-term. Violent video games can also desensitize people to seeing aggressive behavior and decrease prosocial behaviors such as helping another person and feeling empathy (the ability to understand others). The longer that individuals are exposed to violent video games, The more likely they are to have aggressive behaviors, Thoughts, And feelings. These effects have been seen in studies in both Eastern and Western countries. Although males spend more time than females playing violent video games, Violent video game exposure can increase aggressive thoughts, Behaviors, And feelings in both sexes. The analysis of 24 studies from countries including the U. S. , Canada, Germany and Japan found those who played violent games such as ""Grand Theft Auto, "" ""Call of Duty"" and ""Manhunt"" were more likely to exhibit behavior such as being sent to the principal's office for fighting or hitting a non-family member. ""Although no single research project is definitive, Our research aims to provide the most current and compelling responses to key criticisms on this topic, "" said Jay Hull, Lead author of the study published Monday in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. ""Based on our findings, We feel it is clear that violent video game play is associated with subsequent increases in physical aggression, "" said Hull, Associate dean of faculty for the social sciences at Dartmouth College in Hanover, New Hampshire, And the Dartmouth Professor of Psychological and Brain Sciences. Video game violence has been a hot-button issue for more than a decade. Interest in research on video games' potential for violence increased after it was learned Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold, The two teenagers who committed the Columbine High School shooting, Played the first-person shooting computer game ""Doom. "" But in a 2011 Supreme Court decision overturning California's ban on the sale of violent video games to minors, The late Justice Antonin Scalia dismissed a link between the games and aggression. ""These studies have been rejected by every court to consider them, And with good reason: They do not prove that violent video games cause minors to act aggressively, "" he wrote in the majority opinion. Since then, An American Psychological Association task force report in 2015 found a link between violent video games and increased aggression in players but insufficient evidence that violent games lead to criminal violence. Earlier this year, President Donald Trump convened a video game summit a month after the February shooting that killed 17 people at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla. Prior to that meeting, Trump said, ""I""m hearing more and more people say the level of violence on video games is really shaping young people""s thoughts. "" The Dartmouth researchers sought to reduce confusion about research findings "" including disputes about the association between violent games and aggression "" with a finely structured meta-analysis. Those in the study who played violent games, Whether frequently or infrequently, Had an increase risk of aggressive behavior. The new research echoes Hull's previous finding that playing violent games equates to about twice the risk of being sent to the principal""s office for fighting during an eight-month period, He said. A separate 2014 study he oversaw of violent video games in 2, 000 families is one of the 24 included in the meta-analysis. The effect is ""relatively small, But statistically reliable. The effect does exist, "" Hull said. While there's not research suggesting violent video games lead to criminal behavior, Hull's previous research suggests players may practice riskier behaviors such as reckless driving, Binge drinking, Smoking and unsafe sex. ""A lot of people ask, Do these games really cause these kids to behave aggressively? I would say that is one possibility, "" he said. ""The other possibility is that it's a really bad sign. If your kids are playing these games, Either these games are having a warping effect on right and wrong or they have a warped sense of right or wrong and that""s why they are attracted to these games. Either way you should be concerned about it. "" Aggressive behavior is measured by scientists in a number of ways. Some studies looked at self-reports of hitting or pushing, And some looked at peer or teacher ratings on aggressive behaviors. Other studies looked at how likely an individual was to subject others to an unpleasant exposure to hot sauce or a loud noise after playing violent video games. Unfortunately, Few studies have been completed on violent video game exposure and aggression in children under age 10. There is also little information about the impact of violent video game exposure on minority children. There have not been many studies on the effects of different characteristics of video games, Such as perspective or plot. However, Some studies have found that competition among players in video games is a better predictor of aggressive behavior than is the level of violence Do Violent Video Games Increase Violence? Violence is a form of aggression, But not all aggressive behaviors are violent. Very few studies have looked at whether playing violent video games increases the chances of later delinquency, Criminal behavior, Or lethal violence. Such studies are difficult to conduct, And require very large numbers of children. It makes sense that since playing violent video games tends to increase the level of aggressive behavior it would also results in more lethal violence or other criminal behaviors, But there is no clear evidence to support that assumption. Policy In the aftermath of the Parkland shooting in Florida in 2018, Policymakers are again questioning the influence of violent video games. The Entertainment Software Rating Board (ESRB) affirms that their rating system is effective, But the APA Task Force on Violent Media recommends that the ESRB revise their rating system to make the level of violence clearer. The Task Force also recommends that further research must be done using delinquency, Violence, And criminal behavior as outcomes to determine whether or not violent video games are linked to violence. Bottom Line Studies show that they make children more violent."	PRO	403
403	S8294b441-A6e0532a3	Video Games Cause Violence	While it might interest some in harming others, it's highly unlikely. People with stable minds know that what is shown on screen is not actually happening in real life. You must be utterly sick-minded to think off attaching a chain saw to a gun, and actually killing people that way. To even imagine that, you need to be confined to a mental institute. I stil also don't see why people keep singling out video games as a source of violence, when most R rated movies explicitly depict violence in MUCH MUCH worse ways. The amount of blood in Halo is minor, even the amount of blood in Black Ops is. Also, most games have gore filters.	CON	404
404	S898fa5f0-A1fc1e187	Video games are bad for children.	Let's have a cup of tea and listen to us. Video games are bad for children because for exemple some of them inspire violence even though they're often the most loved by children. In fact a lot of this games include guns, dying in a cruel way and kill people. In fact they're extremely brutal. Also they create addiction and children can't stay away from them for long. If they don't play, they can feel really upset and unquiet and maybe their mood can change very fast. In addiction, stay in front of a screen for long can damage your sight and you waste a lot of time that you could use doing other activies, also outside in order not to miss the world around you.	PRO	405
405	Scfd4c48a-Afc645018	Video games cause bad behavior.	why video games considered to be bad behavior to some of us?	PRO	406
406	Scfd4c48a-A21f559da	Video games cause bad behavior.	I'll wait for my opponent to post his argument as to why video games cause bad behavior.	CON	407
407	S7b564465-Adce9fbc6	Should Video Games be less Violent	I think that video games should be less violent what about you.	CON	408
408	Sd672d38d-Aa48a303a	Violent Video games should be ban	Violent Video games should be ban because it could affect of how children/people think, do.	PRO	409
409	S2442d956-A25827ff1	Video games are detrimental to the modern day society.	"In this round, I will be arguing several new aspects of video games and reiterating some older matters. ""I am sure that at least one person in the world will agree with me on this issue. As to the biased part, I would also like to tell you that humans are all biased on a somewhat way."" Of course there's bound to be at least 1 person who agrees with you. After all, there are nearly 7 billion people on this planet. I'm not saying people are not biased, but facts are not supposed to be. You can't just say something that you believe and pass it as a fact without research. ""I am sure that 25% of the world to somewhat degree, is glued to some technology that interferes with their life"" Of course people are glued to technology, gadgets such as the watch and weapons and the radio, not so much nowadays, have impacted people all around the world. ""What I am trying to get across, is the fact that even though some games might seem educational in some ways, 99% of the game play is not related to it whatsoever."" Really? 99% of games are not educational? Where did you learn that? In fact, I have evidence to dispute your 99% non-educational games statistic: Type of Games Played Most Often: 11% (Persistent Multi-Player Universe) 14% (Downloadable games such as Bejeweled) 16% (Action/Sports/Strategy/Role Play) 47% (Puzzle/Board/Game show/Trivia/Card) 12% (Other) Puzzle/Board/Game show/Trivia/Card combines to make a whopping 47% of all games played. Puzzles are certainly educational in that it trains the player to envision the big picture and utilize the smaller pieces. Board games, not so much, encourages socialization from player. Game show games, such as Jeopardy requires you to have an immense amount of knowledge to win. Same goes for trivia games. Card games such as poker and blackjack requires careful consideration from serious players, increasing their ability to strategize better. http://karlkapp.blogspot.com...... ""1st hand perspective is always most obvious. …Case closed."" Certainly 1st hand perspective is always more obvious, but do you have 1st hand perspective? Have you played through the whole game? Furthermore, if you think video games are detrimental to society, why do you play such things? Face it, life revolves around the little inconspicuous things. People have a tendency, in order to make other people be jealous of them, of being knowledgeable of certain things even though they have not participated in the actual event. ""So sitting in front of the tv playing the video game is not being a couch potato. …I think not."" I have never been to a stadium before because I am poor, and I have never been in a bar since I am not of age yet, so I don't know the exact response to such events. If they don't stare at the screen, how can they know what happened? ""You think that every kid doesn't watch porn behind their parent's backs or do illegal things? On the topic of porn and other illegal things, it is obvious that you do not know as much about the outside world as you should. And here you have no evidence supporting your statement?"" Sigh, I was hoping you would understand my implication. Certainly not every kid watch porn, some, like in China, cannot because of governmental censorship on search engines, others because they are aware of the consequences of their actions. 42% of youths age 10-17 had constantly seen Internet porn in 2006. That means more than half of teens do not watch porn more than once. http://74.125.93.132/... ""O, so you're saying the teens are the ones that are totally in fault? …People should answer their own conscience and everyone knows what is right and what is wrong.?"" Teens in part are at fault because they are at a point of age where they are forming their own view of the world and can judge their actions adequately most of the time. We can't know completely if whether or not they would be in certain situations if they did not play such video games. It is completely different than dealing drugs. How many illegal drug users create their own animated show? (I write about famous people who play games later in this piece.) That was just one example, however, since we are not debating whether or not video game creators have malicious intent toward the player or not, I will not pursue this topic further. On the topic of right and wrong and the conscience, there is no such thing as a line drawn between the two, and the world is not just monochrome. Something that is right in one instance might not be the right choice in another. ""I do not play adult rated games and the most that I play is modern warfare 2 which is m rated. …Kids are vulnerable. Duh, that's why there shouldn't be those video games influencing them?"" You don't? But didn't you write that all kids do illegal things behind their parent's back? I would certainly include playing adult rated games as one of them. It is the job of the parent to be responsible for the well being of their children, but unfortunately, that is often not the case. Video games may influence them, as we have concluded previously, but much more things influence kids than video games. Peer-pressure, cultural assimilation, desire to fit in, behavior of adults around them, etc. Furthermore, if you look at this list: All of the top games listed are rated E, with the exception of Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas, which is only #8 and the game that you play, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, which is ranked #16. Violent video games do NOT dominate the industry in any way, shape, or form, until the media puts a spin on it. http://en.wikipedia.org...... ""Im'ing does not make up for the invaluable human communication skills that you acquire from playing …What is the point of that?"" I completely agree with you. I have even written a thesis on such topic. Well, I have to say, scrabble and monopoly aren't MY little games, since I did not create them. Following directing is essential to a functional society. For example, in an educational environment, the teacher expects you to follow his/her criteria, and I know this for a fact because I have experienced it, being enrolled in the most prestigious high school in New York City, and those who does not comply receives zeros. In an employer-employee work zone, the employee must obey and follow instructions at the risk of being fired. ""I am saying that people who now play video games and just know how to follow a set rule in order to pass a level …are the followers, not the leaders."" Again, please at least do background checks before you write anything. The creators of South Park Matt Stone and Trey Parker play video games, but are they unimaginative? The website below lists ten famous people who play World of Warcraft, a video game. http://timesonline.typepad.com...... Now some new angles: I Video games lead to new technology. Video game companies are always looking for new technologies to give themselves a competitive edge in the gaming industry. This technology is then replicated outside of video games. Graphic cards used for video games are used to give more accurate MRI scans, X-rays, and seismic graphs. II Video games are used for practical purposes. Many people use video games for physical therapy. Computer simulations are used for war training in a less costly, less deadly manner. http://www.uspharmd.com...... http://www.wired.com... III Video games increase dexterity for those who play them. Video games have been proven to help surgeons be more accurate in their surgeries. That means that less people have died of surgical errors because of video games. Try telling the people who would otherwise be dead that video games have had a bad impact on society. http://discovermagazine.com...... http://www.upi.com...... IV Video games create jobs. http://www.nintendo.com... These points have been brought up by mongeese from http://www.debate.org...... And I would like to discu"	CON	410
410	S7a99f4c0-Aff955c7f	Video games cause violence	Do video games cause violence in our society today? I will be against and anyone who wants to can be for the argument. (Please note that I am new to this site, so if I do something wrong during set up, please let me know) Round one will be for acceptance. May the best arguments win!	CON	411
411	S7a99f4c0-A677267b4	Video games cause violence	First of all, I would like to state my appreciation and respect for the opponent. I believe this is the first debate for both of us. I will be presenting my case that video games do indeed cause violence in our society today. Thank you again, and I will see you in Round Two.	PRO	412
412	Sadb55d1d-A60e56e65	Video Games are a good thing	This is not only about you.....this is for all.....you play video games, do exercise also....alright. But children who are not aware of its side effects...play it for a long time. This causes problems to their eyes and also they waste their time and not give their time to studies.....they don't care about it's side effects....they just think about their entertainment.	CON	413
413	Sadb55d1d-A7ce00245	Video Games are a good thing	My dear opponent I want you to know that some video games teach kids the wrong values. Violent behavior, vengeance and aggression are rewarded. Negotiating and other non violent solutions are often not options. Women are often portrayed as weaker characters that are helpless or sexually provocative.	CON	414
414	Sadb55d1d-Aa4ed15ea	Video Games are a good thing	"My dear opponent I would like to highlight that a recent content analysis by the research organization shows that.....a majority of video games include violence and about half of the violence would result in serious injuries or death in the""real"" world. So it's a good source of time pass for only short period of time."	CON	415
415	S1ac69d5c-A565f0130	Violent video games and school shootings are related	In recent years the video game industry has surpassed both the music and video industries in sales. Currently violent video games are among the most popular video games played by consumers, most specifically First-Person Shooters (FPS). Technological advancements in game play experience including the ability to play online has accounted for this increase in popularity. Previous research, utilizing the General Aggression Model (GAM), has identified that violent video games increase levels of aggression. The following abstract taken from the US national library of medicine shows a direct connection between video games and aggression. Longitudinal effects of violent video games on aggression in Japan and the United States. Anderson CA, Sakamoto A, Gentile DA, Ihori N, Shibuya A, Yukawa S, Naito M, Kobayashi K. Abstract CONTEXT: Youth worldwide play violent video games many hours per week. Previous research suggests that such exposure can increase physical aggression. OBJECTIVE: We tested whether high exposure to violent video games increases physical aggression over time in both high- (United States) and low- (Japan) violence cultures. We hypothesized that the amount of exposure to violent video games early in a school year would predict changes in physical aggressiveness assessed later in the school year, even after statistically controlling for gender and previous physical aggressiveness. DESIGN: In 3 independent samples, participants' video game habits and physically aggressive behavior tendencies were assessed at 2 points in time, separated by 3 to 6 months. PARTICIPANTS: One sample consisted of 181 Japanese junior high students ranging in age from 12 to 15 years. A second Japanese sample consisted of 1050 students ranging in age from 13 to 18 years. The third sample consisted of 364 United States 3rd-, 4th-, and 5th-graders ranging in age from 9 to 12 years. RESULTS. Habitual violent video game play early in the school year predicted later aggression, even after controlling for gender and previous aggressiveness in each sample. Those who played a lot of violent video games became relatively more physically aggressive. Multisample structure equation modeling revealed that this longitudinal effect was of a similar magnitude in the United States and Japan for similar-aged youth and was smaller (but still significant) in the sample that included older youth. CONCLUSIONS: These longitudinal results confirm earlier experimental and cross-sectional studies that had suggested that playing violent video games is a significant risk factor for later physically aggressive behavior and that this violent video game effect on youth generalizes across very different cultures. As a whole, the research strongly suggests reducing the exposure of youth to this risk factor. After this study established to create a direct connection between the increase of aggression and video games, we can just imagine how this dark aggression that aims at destruction and not on construction- with the easy acquisition of guns- will make school children behave at their schools. Knowing that a child spends most of his time at the school with periods of recess, this will be more than enough time for a child to participate in school shootings.	PRO	416
416	S6fcc7b94-A3cc8c34f	Video games lack actual skill.	"My opponent first says that if some people have mad skills in pressing buttons and he has none, therefore he is as good as the people with mad skills. This doesn't aid his point because pressing a button isn't exactly a skill. Anybody can do it and that's technically what gamers are doing. So technically yes, my opponent who has no skills in video games can be as good as someone who supposedly claims they have ""mad skills"". Video games take little to no skill. There is little to no actual skill in video games because the actual person who is playing it is doing nothing but moving your thumbs or pointer finger. How is moving a thumb a skill? Not a lot of people even recognize video games as a skill and that's because they're not. Sitting on a couch staring at a screen is not a real skill. That's like claiming watching TV is a skill. Then there's gamers who claim that professional gamers have skill. I've watched videos if these so called ""professional gamers"" and the skill is really lacking. Compare professional gamer skills to professional sports or musician skills and its actually quite laughable. The reflexes of a gamer are lacking compared to the reflexes of a tennis player who has to return a tennis serve in under half a second. The precision of a gamer is lacking compared to having to the precision of a cellist who has to press the string in the right area on the fretless finger board. The speed of a gamer is laughable compared to the speed of a pianists fingers, sometimes playing up to 19-30 notes in under a second. Compared to actual skills, a gamers skills are laughable. I played Star Wars Battlefront and in under a month I was the best in most of my rounds. I usually got over forty kills each round. You could technically say I was a professional at it. Now I could say that I am in grade 9 piano and it has taken me years to get to this point and still I'm not the best pianist. You see the difference between video game skills and real skills? Real skills actually require that you work for them, video game skills are just cheats of real ones."	PRO	417
417	Saa180ed6-Ad56fa2bc	Video games are for retards	Only the most intelligent people play video games. One example of this is Gabe. This highly intelligent man has an IQ of over 9000. He 100% does not use an aim bot. https://www.youtube.com... This is his youtube account of him playing CS:GO. As you will see he if amazing. Thank you for looking at my argument as it is clearly right.	CON	418
418	S76692401-Ad8c443cd	Are Video Games Too Expensive	So that's only you what if I had 40 bucks and a new game I wanted was 50 that means I don't have to save up. And also you talked about new video games are expensive. Obviously the price is lowered down to a new price that is cheaper so your point is wrong and you did not even respond to anything I said.	CON	419
419	Sa5ca39dc-Afbaa4a96	violent video games do NOT breed violence	"Well for your point on video games not causing real-life violence, The Columbine shooter was influenced by the video game Doom, which he played often. http://news.bbc.co.uk...; I know that it says ""But the legal challenge looks like it will fail because a similar lawsuit filed in the wake of a 1997 school shooting was dismissed when it came to court in April last year. A federal judge said he threw out the case saying computer games are not subject to product liability laws."" in the last two paragraphs, but it is not relevant to the argument. http://listverse.com...; These are other cases where Violent video games have influenced teenagers or gangs to kill other people just because they saw the action and/or committed them in the game. So Violent video games are related to real-life violence. http://www.nydailynews.com... an 8-year-old boy committed a crime when influenced by a violent video game!"	CON	420
420	Sa5ca39dc-A8874c886	violent video games do NOT breed violence	"I accept your challenge. I agree that they breed violence, because of the evidence I read from this article https://www.huffingtonpost.com... In the embed video, it says that video games cause increased aggression, and decreased empathy. Violent video games also caused many people who played it to go on shooting or stabbing rampage. but that's another argument. Studies say that most people that play violent video games have grown more trigger happy with their fists, because they have been doing that in violent video games, so your argument is going against the flow of the river because 90 percent of people say the same thing as me,""They do cause violence."""	CON	421
421	S46642c87-Aaac4cab2	Violent video games desensitize individuals to real violence	"Humans are fantastic at contextualizing things. We can experience roughly the same thing and treat the experiences completely differently based on a great understanding of the bigger picture. This holds true for violence in video games being different from violence in real life. To desensitize is a permanent effect to make them less able to react to a given situation. It actually occurs in real life. When people are the victims of real violence on a regular basis they actually do become desensitized from it. They employ an array of coping mechanisms as well as departmentalizing the violence. None of this occurs for video games because they are video games. They are placed in their proper context and do not illicit the same responses. >>Now, alluding to my first arguments, after playing the violent video games, the subjects had less of a response to the violent episodes. Therefore, they were desensitized. They were desensitized to violent videos and violent video games, not to ""real violence"". The same way we contextual video game violence we contextualize video violence. Your cited paper in round one established exactly this. >>It has been proven that people adapt after increased exposure to stimuli and become desensitized to it, so no matter what you can't argue that violent video games do no desensitize individuals to violence at all. Violent video games aren't violence. People understand this. It isn't real. Real violence desensitizes people to real violence as there are actual correlations between those who were victims and those who victimize others. Video games desensitize people to video games. However there's no good evidence that the latter has an effect on the former as well. Pixels aren't people and people understand this. >>The evidence supporting both your and my side is lacking, so there is no ways to say with a high degree of certitude that they do or do not have long term desensitization effects, however that is not what the proposition states. You are attempting to shift the burden of proof. I am not necessarily required to prove that violent video games don't desensitize people. However, I have repeatedly offered examples of cultures with significantly more violent video games and significantly less violent crime (Japan) to establish that the correlation fails at the most basic level and thus the topic is not only unproved but wrong. If you suggest that playing violent video games caused cancer it would suffice to show that there's no evidence for that to oppose your suggestion that it does. Voters should be swayed via arguments and to suggest that neither side proved it and therefore they should pick a winner at random is amusingly amusing. ----- >>I hope I didn't waste your time. I'm probably going to lose, but we'll see what the voters decide. X) You certainly didn't waste my time. I'm more than happy to debate you. You're probably going to win. In fact, voters would be crazy to vote for me. I've just finished playing a few hours of Counter Strike: Source so now I'm going to go murdering some people... starting with anybody who votes for me! Pwnd teh nub ftw!"	CON	422
422	Sbed8bb66-A915196a	Feminism is ruining video games	"I accept this challenge. As a gamer, I""d like to think feminism has heightened the stakes for female roles in video games. Because Pro initiated this debate, I""ll allow him to start and lay down any rules he wants. Let""s enjoy this remarkably unique topic!"	CON	423
423	S75fbfa8d-A1abbb88	Violent video games, banning of	Once again the flaw in your arguement is two things: 1) You are trying to enforce a government ban on games for all people. However your exmaples is less than 1% of the gaming populations, you failed to list sources of these events. Were they mentally stable? You also take away the right for parents to raise their children and make cthe choice. You listed cases of kids doing harm but want to ban the games for adults? Please explain the logic for that as well. 2) With your stance, we might as well ban water, because people drown in water. Ban alchohol because some people abuse it. Ban pressure cookers because of the boston boming, ban forks because people have been stabbed by them. We should ban diving all together because of car accidents... We should ban the internet because people are on it too much and it too, can lead up to a homocide. Once again. Your opinion on what is right and wrong does not constitute a law to forbid people from playing a game. As I said before Take repsonsibility for your actions do not force the government to do it for you. That is not logical that is lazy. If you are a parent, and you know your child has violent tendancies dont let him play. If there are well over half a billion violent video game players, and you give me individual cases of manyve .00001% do you really think that the rest of the 99.99999 percent should be affected because of it? Your solution is radical and unethical. There are smarter and wiser solutions as I have mentioned twice now. Parenting is the key. Violent kids are going to be violent with or without video games. One might say at least they get to act it out in a virtual world rather than in a physical world.	CON	424
424	S75fe7d16-A9169dca1	Are Video Games Better Than TV	This Is My Own Opinoin But Video Games Just Somehow Make Life better In Many Fun Ways	CON	425
425	S5b6b29c-A35fc20b3	Violent Video Games	Before I post my final argument, I would also like to thank my opponent. He has also made some amazing points and I will take it as a challenge to rebuttal them. The pro was talking about how the parent is responsible for what games a child plays, however this is only partly true. Sometimes an older brother or sister, or even uncle or aunt will buy a game for a child without the parents consent, or even knowledge. While not directly relevant to the point, the violent video game indirectly still ends up in the hands of the child. You pointed out that it was hardship to blame for the violence. Even if this is true, had the game not exist, he wouldn't have to stab a taxi driver in order to buy it. Before you say anything, yes, I do understand your point, but I also stick to mine, something else MIGHT of happened, but this even wouldn't have. As for the video game industry, I could name plenty of games that do not require violence.Animal Crossing, Nintendogs, Wii Sports, My Sims, and Tetris , just dance, and rock band. These are all games that don't have violence. This is my final argument, I would like to thank my opponent one last time. I reccomend that the voters vote for not who they agree with, but who did a better job. Thank you.	CON	426
426	Sc82afeaa-A3ddc380e	Video games are a sport	"What is a sport? ""a game, competition, or activity needing physical effort and skill that is played or done according to rules, for enjoyment and/or as a job"" (http://dictionary.cambridge.org...). Video games require skill and reflexes, has rules and can be for pure enjoy or a full time job. Sports does not need to be a main physical activity, chess is a sport and you have just move a wooden piece (or any other material), but requires skill and strategy, with rules and is competitive."	PRO	427
427	S1ff4635e-Aca03ddea	Ban on sale of violent video games to minors	"Thank you for your quick response. My opponent's attack on evidence is contradictory to his position in this debate as each attack supports my position of the topic. ""does not take into account the fact that participants who are predisposed to be violent or have violent tendencies will have an increased reaction violent video games because of the familiarity of the situations and the association between real world past and the games."" This is supportive to my case as it shows that violent video games have the tendency of rapidly amplifying an individuals violent acts. Finally, the study does not have to incorporated these aspects of the link between violence and video game, rather it does have to accurately describe ""A"" link between violence and video game-which it does.- ""The first was observed aggression such as participants pushing shoving ect ect. These measures are extremely subjective due to the fact that aggression is not always such an outward display and most people who resort to these kind of emotional outbursts exhibit anti social behavior which is the root cause of their problems."" Could it be possible that Anti-social behavior could be another effect of video games? The answer being an absolute yes. Immense amounts of studies have shown that kids often get use to the violence in games even enjoy these violence. Now at first, this kid might play these games for fun, but over a period of time, they start to crave these games thus leading to unusual amounts of time spent playing these games. This can be seen as a form or rather a remedial stage pf anti-social behavior which as time goes on progresses. The American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry wrote in an Aug. 2006 article ""Children and Video Games: Playing with Violence"" published in their Facts for Families information sheet series: ""These data suggest very strongly that participating in the playing of violent video games by children and youth increase aggressive thought and behavior; increase antisocial behavior and delinquency; engender poor school performance; desensitize the game player to violence."" http://videogames.procon.org... ""These traits are swell much closely correlated with children who exhibit anti social behavior as well as children who have a lack of attention in their lives. With both these problems excessive video game playing could be seen as an escape or a way for kids to distract themselves from their own life."" These traits are not an excuse to sell violent video games to minors. The fact is that if these kids were as unstable as you describe them to be, then supplying them with violent video games is much like the government giving crack to a homicidal crack head. There are many games within there age level that can and possible will keep them preoccupied. ""The final measurement of aggressive behavior is reported aggression. This is extremely unethical and due to the fact that each participant will have different peers and teachers(study used reports from teachers on aggression) also the logical connection can be made that teachers will find students more aggressive if they are socially awkward and exhibit anti social behaviors. In many cases this will also cause teachers to think less of students do to the frustration and unwillingness to cooperate with authority which anti social people tend to exhibit"" Ones again, this should not be an excuse to sell games to minors. Rather than encouraging them to do something that can be hazardous to there mental as well as physical being, we should encourage them to seek valuable resources. VOTERS:You should vote for me, because unlike my opponent, i have argued based on the topic itself and not based on the evidence provided. 2. I presented more evidence to support my case 3. My opponent not only failed to make a case, but also failed to refute any of my argument 4. I have offered good reasons as to why a ban on selling video games to minors is a bad idea. Thank you."	PRO	428
428	S6812fc05-A114639cb	Video Games are an art form.	My argument is that video games are an art form, capable of expressing complex themes and emotions. The structure of the debate will be as follows: Round 1: Introductions Round 2: Opening Case Round 3: Debate Round 4: Debate Round 5: Closing case As usual, back up your points and Keep It Clean guys :-)	PRO	429
429	S269fa1e0-Aa97a8b3	should kids play video games	video games improve a lot of skills like hand eye coordination social skills and improve imagination.	PRO	430
430	Sfbccfb3f-A8ab93a18	All have a moral obligation to purchase video games	I shall be the affirmative for this debate, and argue that all have a moral obligation to purchase video games. Resolutional Analysis: The affirmative will be operating under the assumption that morality is absolute, and that what is right for one is right for another. With that said, let us proceed to the meat of my argumentation. Basically, the video game industry is massive. There are people who make the story, people who write the code, people who put on ads, people who sell it to stores, people who sell it in stores, and delivery truck men. Because this industry is so massive, we can infer two things. First, people depend upon video games for security, and second, video games contribute to the economy. Now, if I were to stop purchasing video games, it wouldn't make much difference. However, because morality is absolute, then if it is morally wrong for me, it is morally wrong for everyone, and therefore, everyone stops buying video games. Thus, if you side with the negative, you advocate the destruction of the video game industry. This means the global economy would be severely damaged, and everyone connected to the manufacturing and marketing of video games would lose their jobs. Without jobs, people don't get money; without money, people don't get food; and without food, people starve. Therefore, everyone is morally obligated to purchase video games and contribute the economic security of individuals, and thereby save lives. Thank you, and I look forward to hearing my opponents response!	PRO	431
431	S7a793de8-Acc069bb2	Video Games effect children's minds in a harmful manner	Correct. Video games will never effect a common, regular, 10+ year old anyone. But thats the thing. Personally, I've been playing video games my entire life, and its not video games that cause those things to happen. Its what games you play. I know a six year old that plays GTA, AC, Duke Nukem, and whatever the crud else. I once heard a news story of a six year old shooting his grandmother after playing GTA. With that said.... That child was probably mentally unstable. The question here isn't if Video Games effect children, it's which children it effects.	PRO	432
432	S4da27ee5-A34a9c23	Video Games are not a sport	"sport sp""rt/Submit noun 1. an activity involving physical exertion and skill in which an individual or team competes against another or others for entertainment. As the definition says, sports are a physical activity, you don't get into shape by playing video games, I wish you could, but you can't."	PRO	433
433	Sb3855587-A4f744034	Are video games beneficial to kids	Can videogames be beneficial to kids (or adults) or are the a waste of time? It has been proven that they are beneficial because they can teach kids hand-eye coordination, concentration, how to make friends, and much more. While some people may argue that video games are just a waste of time, they are wrong. Kids have made online friends and have learned responsibilities. These are ways that videogames are beneficial to kids.	PRO	434
434	S5afbee5a-A363a6b5	The world would be better off without video games.	"yes, it's true people may be addicted to video games. ESRB's Patricia Vance said in a study, they found out 60 % of the games in 1700 ratings were E for Everyone, so a huge selection of games available that are appropriate for all ages. Furthermore, even adults have benefits in playing video games. they can easily solve problems, but non players don't have as high levels in terms of perceptual and cognitive ability. Surgeons can save a person's life-- Dr. Jeffrey Taekman said ""serious games and virtual environments are the future of education."" Sporty games like Xbox or Wii, even title like Just Dance, have young kids dancing with their parents. So video games help people physically and in situations in life."	CON	435
435	Sfcfc1b7a-Ab5f5840d	Video games(PRO) vs books(CON) for learning	Thank you, CON. Now I’ll present my case. But before I begin I would like to make my stance clear. As I had mentioned earlier, we’ll be using conventional definitions and google defines video games as ‘A game played by electronically manipulating images produced by a computer program on a monitor or other display’ What should be understood from this is that my case is not platform restricted i.e, I can advocate for video games played in any platform ranging from gaming systems to cell phones and laptops. And thus I begin with my arguments. My case as I see it rests on five strong contentions which are as follows: Incentivized learning Video games work under a rewarding principle wherein users are rewarded with virtual assets in the form of points or goods for completing assigned tasks as a means to reward them for the effort they put into finishing it. When learning is done through video games, the person can be given various incentives or positive motivational influences for understanding or applying concepts and this would make learning a more comfortable and convenient process rather a cumbersome one as many would regard it to be. This system is not particularly new and have been employed by man for ages in areas like training animals where they are given suitable rewards for learning tricks that are taught to them. When such a system has been tested and has found success in animals then there is no doubt that it would succeed with 6th sensed being i.e, us humans. Ability to interact with the material in more than one way With the advancements in technology, it has been made possible to interact with gaming programs in more than one way such as through voice or touch rather than just buttons. Video games have an edge over books because they actually respond to the user’s stimuli and this increases the involvement of a user in the conveyed information. And moreover video games comprise of text, video and sounds as opposed to books which employ only text and images as a means to convey information. Thus we can rationally conclude that video games make information easier to comprehend than books. No problem of information getting outdated Concepts and theories improve and get outdated each and every day. Video game software have the ability of updating its content and all it takes is an internet connection which is now becoming increasingly common than it ever was. Books though don’t come with such privileges and it takes a lot of time for something that has been changed or improved to arrive in their printed pages. A boon for the environment The rate of the population escalation and the impacts caused by it on the environment are increasing day by day. Large areas of land and a huge number of trees get used for the production of paper which are required for books. Given the current situation at hand, this is indeed a hefty price to pay. Video games solve this problem too. Some platforms supporting video games like laptops and mobile phones have become a common and necessary commodity in our current stage of living and video games would fit right in with little or negligible negative impacts. Flexibility of use As I had mentioned earlier, my arguments are not platform restricted. Video games are now available in mobile phones and tabs as well and they grant us the benefit of portability wherein hundreds of games can be carried in a single mobile phone whereas books are heavier in comparison and are classified according to the type of information they hold. So for each subject different books would be needed thus increasing the space they take and the strain that we would experience in carrying them around. Also Video games can be viewed in the dark thanks to the help of electrically lit displays. My opponent claims that, the devices that video games run on would take in more electricity than what night lamps would. But I challenge him to prove this claim because I highly doubt it especially with us having access to technology like Led screens and phones whose battery that can even last for days together. Rebuttals: My opponent has claimed that video games that allow learning would not be affordable and has presented a few examples. But these examples are over exaggerated to suit his arguments. Here I post below some interactive educational games that are free right now to download: https://play.google.com... https://play.google.com... And moreover if the demand increases the prices will with time drop down. If the system of books were entirely replaced with educational games instead, then we would see more and more software companies coming and that would result in making video games affordable for the common public. And I believe I have refuted the other claims raised by CON in my contentions itself, if I have missed out any I urge CON to bring it up in the next round. Hence I rest my case and pass the stage to my adversary.	PRO	436
436	Secdfb6e3-A36b0cdb4	Video Games are a form of art.	I have to prove nothing as a majority in order for it to be art... To be belief so is to rationalize in ignorance. An artist determines what is art for he alone can understand why it is considered art to him. A picture is a form of art. The majority of pictures are not looked at that way, but could be, if the said pictures had characteristics that made them beautiful to the observer. A paper cup could be crumpled in such a way to make it look unique then painted a few colors to further this quality, then be looked at as artwork. Artwork does not need to be proven in a majority in order for it to be artwork, as a matter of fact, it is a goal of most artists to create something completely different and unique, something that is not part of the majority of artwork, but a rare beautiful piece in it's own regard. You see... Beauty is in the eye of the beholder. Majority has nothing to do with it. Someone could build a horse out of glue and beer cans, but that does not mean that the majority of beer cans and glue have to be considered as artwork in order for the horse to be looked at as art. Video games are a form of art because they involve a great amount of things that fall into the realm of artwork. Shapes, colors, sounds, movements, etc. I will give you an example of a video game that I consider to be a modern work of art... Final fantasy XIII for PS3, PC, or XBOX 360. This game is beautiful in every way. The movements, the characters, the dialogue, the music, the world the game is played in, etc. What one person sees a work of art, another sees as nothing artistic at all. A picture of sunset, a horse made of beer cans, the movement of a dancer, the clothing on a fashion model, all of these things fall into the realm of normal accepted art. Movies, pictures, books, music... All of these things make up the accepted majority of art forms. Video games consist of some or all of these elements, and the combination therefor cannot be denied as a form of art.	PRO	437
437	Sd6baaaf1-Adbf7ce8f	should video games be considered a sport	"Hi, thank you for the debate, can't wait to get this under way. First off, I'd like to note that the opposition fails to cite a source on his definition. Let's break down the definition you provided: ""An athletic activity"" The definition I'll be using for athletic is ""of or relating to athletes; involving the use of physical skills or capabilities, as strength, agility, or stamina:"" (1) Video games require quite a bit of physical skill, and a good example is first person shooters. To be able to make the precise movements needed to be successful in the game requires skill. ""requiring skill or physical prowess"" Again, we'll have to define skill here: ""the ability, coming from one's knowledge, practice, aptitude, etc., to do something well:"" (2) As stated above, being able to make precise movements with a mouse or controller requires skill, and can be constantly improved with practice. Video games don't require physical prowess. ""often of a competitive nature"" Certain games are incredibly competitive, and can offer multiple million dollar prize pools at the top levels. Examples include the upcoming Dota 2 tournament, ""The International"", which has a $20 million dollar prize pool (3), that top teams can compete for and CS:GO's PGL Major Krakow with a 1 million dollar prize pool (4). Both games are already competitive in nature, but with the added prize pool, it's hard to make a case about them not being competitive. So to recap, I've proved that video games are an athletic activity, require skill, and are competitive, which fits the definition Con provided in his opening round Sources: (1)- http://www.dictionary.com... (2)-http://www.dictionary.com... (3)-http://www.gosugamers.net... (4)-http://major.pglesports.com..."	PRO	438
438	S3e67d226-Ae3a691d5	Video games are not a significant factor in mass shootings.	"Ave! TD wrote his arguments in barely comprehensible English, so I'm going to have to take guesses at what he's trying to say. NY Times Article TD_Cole gives us no actual evidence when he quotes this article. He simply quotes the author, who thinks the shooters were acting out video games. We're presented no actual reason to think that this is the case. It's only a bare assertion. Why would we think that the shoters were acting out a video game? We're never told. This argument is complete bunk, because there's no evidence given. It's silly to suggest that since all the shooters played video games, they must have been a factor. All of the shooters also breathed air and drank water. Would we consider these to be factors in the shooting as well? Of course, the article talks about various psychologists views on the issue, but not a single person or study on that article takes TD's side. Columbine It should be obvious that the Columbine shooters weren't acting out on some type of video game fantasy. The evidence resoundingly supports the idea that the shooting happened because Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold wanted revenge on the students at their school, particulary the jocks. Consider what Eric Harris said after entering the library during the shooting: ""Everyone with white hats, stand up! This is for all the s$$$ that you've given us for the past four years!"" and: ""All jocks stand up! We'll get the guys in white hats!"" [Wearing a white hat was a jock tradition at the school] From this, we can deduce that they wanted to kill the jocks, and that the jocks had 'given them s$$$ for the past four years'. The two shooters must have been bullied by the jocks at the school for their entire high school life, and wanted to take revenge on them. They didn't kill the jocks because it was in their video game. They killed the jocks because they hated them. The latter explanation is far more plausible. Studies on Video Games TD_Cole gives us a link to various studies done on video games. At most, it shows us that there's a lack of consensus on the effects of playing video games. Not a single one of those studies had anything to do with the idea that mass shootings are caused by violent video games. How could this possibly prove his case to be true? It's irrelevant to the resolution. APA Research Nothing was 'triggered' in anybody's personality from playing video games. I'm at a loss as to how TD_Cole interpreted the press release as saying that. The research shows that the personaltiy of the player effects the consequences of video game playing. If video games had any consequence, it's because of the person's personality. That's shaped by various sociological and biological factors, so there's no way that video game use had anything to do with it. Sandy Hook I didn't, at any point, suggest that video games were a factor in the Sandy Hook shooting. I showed that blaming video games for Sandy Hook would be premature, because his motives are still being investigated. I also cited research which demonstrates that Lanza would be less likely to perform a shooting if he played video games in a certain way. How does TD_Cole interpret this as me admitting that video games were a factor? If TD_Cole thinks that violent video games caused Sandy Hook, then he should provide evidence for it. All we've seen in this debate are good reasons to think that blaming video games would be premature. Axiom TD_Cole doesn't say anything significant about the axiom I presented. Rather than accept it or rebutt it, he just gives the definition of the word 'axiom', as if had anything to do with the argument. The axiom has not been answered to, so I extend it. Abscene of evidence is evidence of abscene when evidence can be expected. There is no evidence that violent video games influence mass shootings, so that becomes a positive case against that idea. Ergo, we have a positive case in favor of the resolution based off TU_Cole's inability to present evidence. Vale!"	PRO	439
439	S78239cf0-Aba04cefc	Emulators For Video Games Are Illegal	"My opponent makes three general points in the previous round: 1) He says that I have adequately explained why emulator developers and people who download ROMs do not get sued, but have not adequately explained why Youtube videos involving emulators don't get taken down. 2) He says that brand loyalty is not important in the video game industry. 3) He says the topic should include Canadian law. (1) Youtube walkthroughs Video game companies don't sue Youtube channel owners for the same reasons they don't sue people who download the emulators: it's a better business decision to try to tap into the demand for emulated games, rather than pursuing litigation tactics. The DMCA in the United States certainly entitled copyright holders to issue takedown notices, but I've never heard of someone who made a ""walkthrough"" of a game getting a takedown notice. Most developers benefit from ""walkthrough"" videos because it's free advertising (showcasing gameplay to those that don't have the game) and it benefits people who *do* have the game by providing them useful advice when they get stuck (so they don't end up hating the game as being ""too hard""). My opponent's refusal to provide sources makes this point difficult because I can't check into his specific examples and why the developers claimed they were issuing a takedown in those cases. It's not a general practice though. (2) Brand loyalty Brand loyalty is hugely important in the video game industry. In the ""console wars"" between Microsoft and Sony (Xbox One versus Playstation 4), a huge contingent of gamers were going to jump ship from Xbox because Xbox was going to: (1) have an ""always online"" feature that *required* you to log into your online account in order to play your games [with no ""offline"" play allowed at all], and (2) was going to implement measures to prevent people from playing used copies of games. The fan-base absolutely revolted. Everyone was going to buy a PS4. Microsoft quickly backed off and got rid of these new features. My author from last round -- Professor James Conley -- also reiterates that brand loyalty is important in the gaming industry. The fact that companies do not respond to *every* user demand (on random online forums) does not prove that they don't care about brand loyalty. (3) Canadian law It's fine if we include this. As my opponent says, Canadian law is the same as US law in almost every regard."	PRO	440
440	Sd46bff47-A91a6d85d	Video Games Cannot Be Blamed For 'Corrupting' Children.	"I will be playing the role of devil's advocate for this debate. Pro states in his debate that the corruption of youth is not at the fault of the video games or the industry that produces these games, but it is in fact at the fault of the parents of these children. Though this could pass as a legitimate argument Pro's reasoning are as one would say ""broken"" To directly quote Pro: ""I was in a Game store last week, and saw children as young as 14 discussing what games to get. One of them bought Bioshock 2, another bought GTA Vice City, and the third bought Prototype 2, all with their parents permission. I own or have played all 3 of these games, and they are definitely not suitable for children of that age, hence the age rating."" Pro later states: ""games that are rated 18+ are all aimed at people in that age group. Anybody who is younger than that that is playing such games is only doing so because their parents, or their friends parents don't care about the age rating."" (just a small nitpick but ESRB's mature rating is 17+ not 18+[1]) Pro's argument is simply as goes ""Because the parents allow their kids to play these 17+ games which according the the official ESRB website contains topics like ""May contain intense violence, blood and gore, sexual content and/or strong language.""[1] the parent are responsible for their children's corruption. Following this logic Pro has fully admitted that video games are responsible for the corruption of youth, yet he insists that its the parents fault for allowing their children to play these games. With or without parental consent, playing these games do in fact corrupt their kids. It is completely irresponsible to blame the parent in this situation, the games that contain this content in the first place is the source of corruption in youth. Now for my main argument/s It has been proved in multiple studies that video games have influenced or directly caused violence in not even youths but people in general, I will be using recent studies from 2013, in which video games are shown as a link to increases of aggression[2] Brad Bushman, a professor at Ohio State University who specializes in communication and psychology directly states: ""People who played a violent video game for three consecutive days showed increases in aggressive behavior and hostile expectations each day they played"" The study was conducted by Bushman and fellow researchers form France and Germany, they gathered a group of 70 French students and told them they would be participating in a three-day study of the effects of brightness of video games on visual perception (although this was not the case) The students were randomly assigned to play a violent or non violent video game for 20 minutes for the three day period, afterwards they were put in multiple excersizes to test their level of agression. The results showed those who played the violent games expected the others around them to act agressive towards them and were shown to act agressive towards others according to Bushman. The study also showed those who played the non violent games showed no changes in their level of agression or hostile expectations, the study also showed that the those who played violent video games decrease pro-social behavior, such as helping or cooperating with others, and decrease feelings of empathy and compassion for others. It is quite obvious rather we like it or not that violent video games do have an effect on some, and can be a link to violence. I await Pro's arguments/ Sources: [1] http://www.esrb.org... [2] http://seattletimes.com..."	CON	441
441	Sc51b1af2-Aa3d6acd	Video games make you violent	Video games don't make you violent, there are multiple studies that that says they don't make you violent, http://www.telegraph.co.uk... http://www.independent.co.uk...	CON	442
442	Sd672d38d-Aeb04172e	Violent Video games should be ban	If you said that its just that something causes.. THEN WHY THERE ARE MANY CRIMES RELATING TO VIOLENT VIDEO GAMES MOST ARE 18 below age	PRO	443
443	Sb381c0ed-A58146bd2	Video games do not cause children to commit crimes	"Thank you for your points and good luck. I believe that video games DO cause children children to commit crimes. Children get influenced by friends,family and society. But they also get influenced by television and video games. While some video games have educational content,many of the most popular games promote negative themes,such as: 1.The killing of people or animals. 2.The use and abuse of drugs and alcohol. 3.Criminal behaviour and disrespect of the law. 4.Sexual exploitation and abuse towards women. 5.Racial,sexual and gender stereotypes. 6.Foul language. All of these things can affect the child's brain. Yes it is just a video game,but MOST children take these negative themes out in real life. Studies show that children exposed to violence can become: 1. ""Numb"" to the horror of violence. 2. More aggressive. 3. depressed. Some children accept violence as a way to solve/handle problems. If children think that violence is a way to solve/handle things,they will cause crimes. If children think that the killing of people or animals are all right they will cause crimes. It affects the brain causing them to think its right and actually doing it in real life,thinking its fun. There has been heaps of real life incidents of children being violent in real life due to playing video games After students Dylan Klebold and Eric Harris opened fire in their Colorado high school in 1999 -- shooting 20 people and killing 13 -- Linda Sanders filed a lawsuit. Her husband was a teacher at Columbine and among the dead. The media revealed that Harris and Klebold played a lot of violent video games, including ""Wolfenstein 3D,"" ""Doom,"" and ""Mortal Kombat."" Sanders named multiple video game publishers, including Sony and Nintendo, in the suit as well as Time Warner and Palm Pictures since the shooters had apparently watched ""The Basketball Diaries,"" in which a character uses a shotgun to kill students at his high school. So in conclusion, video games DO cause children to commit crimes. Thank you"	CON	444
444	Se6270ff-A7644067b	Video Games do not Cause Violence	I will be arguing that video games do not cause violence. First round is for acceptance. Good Luck!	PRO	445
445	S63308ee0-A15f774f	Violent video games make children violent	"Glad to hear that you're new here too. Considering how new I am, sorry for any errors in my argument. When looking at whether video games make children violent, first we must establish what people mean when they say 'violent'. The Merriam Webster Dictionary gives it as: 1: marked by extreme force or sudden intense activity 2 a : notably furious or vehement b : extreme, intense, 3: prone to commit acts of violence Here I am editing out some definitions that do not relate to the topic at hand. I am particularly looking at the third definition, as many have attributed video games to school shooting, saying that violent video games actually influence them enough to do something of the sort. That, in my perception, would be making someone prone to committing acts of violence. Is this possible? While studies show that people may feel more aggression while playing a violent game and shortly after, there has never been proof that there are long term psychological effects. In fact, studies show that video games can actually make you smarter. That action gamers, which I take to be games in the first-person-shoot genre(Not limited to such, just an example.) which would be a violent game.From 1995 to 2008, violent video game popularity has skyrocketed, while the number of violent crimes have lowered by almost 50%. If video games are truly a source of violence for children, then why aren't there MORE shootings? Why don't we have more armed robberies? Considering how many people play games like Call of Duty daily, you would think the number would be much higher. As The Washington Post's Max Fisher wrote: ""In fact, countries where video game consumption is highest tend to be some of the safest countries in the world, likely a product of the fact that developed or rich countries, where consumers can afford expensive games, have on average much less violent crime"". That concludes my argument, I can't wait to see yours. http://www.merriam-webster.com... http://www.thewire.com... http://videogames.procon.org..."	CON	446
446	S6ba1043a-Af328d860	Religion causes more violence than video games	Religion causes ore violence than video games because there were more wars and battles over religion than video games	PRO	447
447	Sdc226c19-A24c33114	Video Games Cause Real-World Violence	Video games do not cause real-world violence. While some people who cause violence do play violent video games, correlation does not equal causation. I do not believe that video games cause violence and invite people to try to convince me otherwise.	CON	448
448	S874a4709-A913c126d	Video Games Are the best and can help you learn	Videos games are fun but are they good? They are good in terms of enjoying yourself and relaxing but they are not good for educational purposes. While there are educational video games they are lacking compared to the overall gaming industry and gaming itself actually harms education more than you think. Video games keep people up at night which likely results in poor homework as more time is devoted to them. In other words I accept this debate (I have nothing against video games hell I enjoy them but they are not a good thing in terms of education and health)	CON	449
449	Sa41abadd-Afbc1becc	should violent video games be sold in stores	"In recent studies, ""Violent video games, is one of the factors seen as the possible cause of high shooting incidents in schools"". Should the games be sold in stores? I do not think so, but if they are, I believe that you should at least have to be a certain age to have access to these games. Some people in the military use violent video games as part of their training. Are those the kind of games we want to allow teenagers and kids to play?"	CON	450
450	S1ff4635e-A25a71466	Ban on sale of violent video games to minors	Banning video games is bad mmkay.... There is no legitimate reason violent video games should be banned. There is more violence on the news, in museums and in the bible and these mediums affect children much more than games...	CON	451
451	Sa41abadd-A432e205e	should violent video games be sold in stores	I do not believe violent video games should be sold in stores. It has been proven in most people that violent video games boost aggression and bad behavior. I guess that you could say it depends on what frame of mind you are in whilst playing on them. If you are angry then you may pick up on some of the actions and use them. People tends to learn some bad words from violent games and they able to apply it to the real world. Children nowadays shout at their parents which is not a good thing. Students actions change after amount of time playing these games. Violence in school can occur. Addiction to these games can affect someone, and how they interact with people. Violent video games put ideas in a persons head that can really change a person negatively.	CON	452
452	S19e9442f-A3bd38317	"This house believes ""Video Games Be Considered a Sport"""	"Ok, first let me clarify one point, If video games are made a sport, then they will be given further protection against being manipulated and furthermore, your average sports can also be manipulated if you, for example, bribe the referee. Infact if you want to talk about manipulated, then you can practically manipulate any sport, but why don't they? It is because of the fact that sports are carefully monitored and if Video games are given the status of sport then they to will be monitored. moving on to the statement (""Popularity should not be a determinate whether something should be considered a sport or not. There are many popular things that have little or no talent. For example, Kim Kardashian and Danielle Bregoli, the ""cash me outside"" girl."") If you are stating this, then you are implying that Video games require no skill, which is an absolutely INCORRECT statement simply because of the fact that different types of games require different types of skills, for eg. You need to have quick reflexes while playing fifa, You need to know basic sciences for many games, you need speed for table tennis on the wii, etc. Furthermore, most games are quite unpredictable as the lines of codes in them often exceed 1,000,000,000 and that means that a single shot in fifa 17 can have 5 different outcomes! Finally, I would like to talk about the statement that "" 'Video games are short-circuiting our reward system that we rely on for feedback on what we are doing,' said Elan Barenholtz, professor of psychology at FAU. 'Video games, I believe, make a much more consistent reinforcement that is kind of unnatural, and in a sense addictive. [They have] incremental accomplishments, rewards. All things we love.' "" This means that video games what? Cause us to expect better rewards for small things? where is the Evidence? Where are the statistics? Where are the numbers?"	PRO	453
453	S47cb118-A5b38fd15	we should have video games	because all kids have nothing to do so we need video games who agrees with me	PRO	454
454	S75fe7d16-A39be99db	Are Video Games Better Than TV	I accept I will argue that video games are better than tV as pro my adversary will argue they are not better than tv as con	PRO	455
455	Sd333ea9a-Adb83e77	Video Games do more harm than good	This debate is part of Social Pinko's debate tournament. == Rules == This is a 4 round debate, with following rules - in addition to standard debating rules which apply. 1. BoP will be shared. I have to prove that Video Games do more harm than good. Phoenix Reaper has to prove that Video Games do more good than harm. 2. First round is for rules and introduction. 3. Final round is for summary and conclusion. No new arguments in the final round. 4. In case any of the rules are considered as inappropriate by the Con, he is free to discuss them in comments - and when we come to a consensus, he may make the suitable amendments in his first round. 4. We debate in good faith. No semantics or syntactical argument. We will make full effort to have an informative and enjoyable debate. == Introduction == This debate is about the benefit vs. harm of video games. By video games we are referring to the computer games, which are typically played on a display device in which images are controlled by electronic controller connected to the computer such as joystick, Wii or even keyboard or any similar device. The players may play against the computer or with each other; present at same location or over the network. Games like soccer, cricket, hockey and tennis are sports which are not considered as video games even though computers may be involved at some stage. This because the computer is not involved in the playing of game itself but in decision making or broadcast. We are debating the video games as they exist today. We shall be looking at what loss they have caused and what benefit they have made to the society till this date. If the video games are going to destroy humanity in future or they have the potential to solve all our problems in few decades; arguments like that are irrelevant to this debate. We shall be looking at both qualitative and quantitative aspect of the benefit and harm. So if a particular video game can give a particular benefit, we will have to see if the benefit is widespread and common before accepting it. Otherwise it would be treated as an anecdote rather than evidence. In this debate, I am not discussing the solutions. I may support some regulation or self-regulation from video game industry, however that is not a subject of this debate. Let us get this debate started.	PRO	456
456	S3e67d226-A2b406990	Video games are not a significant factor in mass shootings.	See here's the thing that my opponent fails to realize. Note: not everyone takes everything the same way. Which the studies I pointed out in the first round the Top 25 studies on video game violence. Some teenagers responded with more violent acts of aggression. Some didn't. This suggests that some are more mature and handle it better than others. These men are the ones that are exposed to it and somehow, bam, a massacre happened. Many examples will prove it. Most people in today's era find Opera music boring, but there is a few that see's it as beautiful. It may make some sleepy and confused but to others it gets their adrenaline up. Some music make you feel certain ways, test yourself on that before you decide to vote. See if the music makes you feel certain ways and acts certain ways. If music and other things can influence people on their actions. Why can't video games? Why are video games not a factor in this what so ever? This is completely hearsay that this must not be true via they are still studying this. That would mean it is a factor. If video games were not a factor in mass shootings, than I ask this one very, very simple question. Why mention it to so many cases? This would be trivial to these people's actions yet they investigate it. So how is it even a factor? Why are we even debating on the fact? What does my opponent bring up sources that link video games to the massacres but can't seem to find one that doesn't slightly mention the idea that it is a factor? Which cancels out the point making it's not a factor. If it wasn't there would be a credited source that would not place video games in the matter at all, but simply based upon what ever the person that wrote it his theory alone not even cancelling it out if it was not a factor. Conclusion. 1. If it's not a factor with the massacres, why is it mentioned in so many articles? 2. If it's not a factor then why after 30 years at least of studying it, it's continuing to be studied. 3. Video games: primarily shooting games, shows how to load, aim, shoot, and reload a gun. Find one that doesn't. 4. Other than researching this themselves how to use a weapon which there has been nothing said about what's the other way to gain knowledge how to use a weapon? Shooting games. Which is a genre of video games. 5. Actors have inspired people to become actors. Boxing has inspired people to become boxers. Musicians have inspired people to become musicians. Etc. So why can't shooting games inspire people to shoot other people?	CON	457
457	S9d764fb-Adfde42d	Sex should be allowed in video games	I think that sex should be allowed in video games, i will state my reasons in my other rounds.	PRO	458
458	S46642c87-Aaba62a08	Violent video games desensitize individuals to real violence	"When people are given repeated and long term exposure to media and video game violence they become aroused by the violence via a number of physiological and hormonal cues. Aggression is one of them. It's accurate to suggest that after exposure to violent video games adolescents and young adults do become aggressive. The effect wears off after about half an hour. The same effect is witnessed when people are exposed to pornography. Rape proclivity (similar questionnaire style psychology test of appropriate vs. inappropriate responses) and hormone levels spike and return to normal after about half an hour. The study you cite supposes that it can draw this short term spike of adrenaline into a long term correlation via ""delinquency"". You want to know why long term exposure to video games results in declines of academic performance? --- BECAUSE THEY ARE PLAYING VIDEO GAMES ALL THE TIME!!!! Exposures to sex-materials and exposure towards violent materials do have a notably short term effect of sex and violent related activity. If you get somebody riled up, it takes a little bit of time for them to settle down. This isn't some kind of long term psychological scarring, it's hormones. If you expose people to sex they're okay with sex. If you expose people to violence they're okay with violence. These hold true for half an hour with a notably steady drop off throughout. ---- You need to establish that violent video games desensitize individuals to real violence. So far you've established: * People process video game violence in the same way as video violence. * You can rile a person up with video games. * If students play video games all the time they do worse in school. Are you going to cite a study with some direct relevance to the topic next? ---- These studies and this topic has been explored for decades and to date there's no good evidence to support the hypothesis and not for a lack of trying. It's become a joke of made for TV movies and school kids the world over. The idea that some kid is going to play GTA and car jack somebody and drive over a large number of people (fewer than ten if you want to avoid getting three stars) is simply wrong. The way kids figure this out without any fancy psychology PhDs? They play violent video games and would never do such a thing. No amount of psychology papers could possibly put that asunder. No amount of desperate attempts by psychologists trying to prove a link that they absolutely want to find is going to make a link suddenly appear. In the harder sciences when have a hypothesis and it fails, you look somewhere else, you don't keep searching for the next 20 years. The studies are going backwards. They assume that there must be a link and go about searching everywhere for it, they aren't trying to understand some underlying mechanism or odd effect they witnessed. They are making a conclusion and desperately seeking science to back it up. However, when we look at the bigger picture and compare populations to see if there is some effect there, we don't find it. There is more violent video games in Japan, and if you've ever seen Anime you'd know that there's plenty of video violence as well, however Japan still has nearly no violent crime. There's very little point in doing research to find the mechanisms behind something that can't even make a statistical dent. I'm sorry but you're wrong. I get the feeling that you're passionate about this and I don't mean to offend, but violent video games aren't making kids violent. It doesn't matter how many video games kids play, you threaten them with real death and expose them to real violence and they act the same way: scared."	CON	459
459	Sc958dc5a-A5c89028f	Violent video games should NOT be banned	How does Call of Duty make you lose respect? If any thing, I've gained even more respect for past wars. It all comes down to Mentality. If you play Call of Duty (or any shooting game) and it makes you want to go shoot some one, then you should not be playing video games at all. If you can't see that video games are fantasy, then why should you be playing them? Parents should make there kids go outside once in a while. Yes, WiiFit is an good game for doing more then just button mashing and sitting down. But with any game, kids are going to get bored of it, and go play something else. Kids don't need to be bothered by school all of the time. Let them have a break! Some kids are just not athletic. And what's wrong will using electricity? I see no problem with electricity use.	PRO	460
460	Sdc226c19-Aa1521b0f	Video Games Cause Real-World Violence	"The problem with that argument is that you're giving video games as the only possible reason for violence ignoring the fact that many people who kill ""because of video games"" suffer from mental health issues, abusive families, bullying, etc.. To say that violent video games cause violence is to say that no other factors affect it. And, there is statistical evidence that video games do not affect violent behavior if you account for external factors such as the ones listed above. And statistical evidence is always more valid than circumstantial evidence, you will always be able to find someone that committed an act of violence because of whatever you can imagine, people have killed people over loud music. Does that mean that loud music causes violence? No! It means that people will use anything as a reason to kill one another."	CON	461
461	S5fc2ae63-A1aee1f50	Violent Video Games have a Bad Influence on Teenagers	Rules: 1. This debate is about video games having a bad influence on teenagers, as most violent video games are restricted 15 or 18. 2. Using examples of specific games is acceptable. Please accept :)	PRO	462
462	Sa90756e8-Ad24fd224	There should be more restrictions on violent video games	"Pro: I being pro am going to affirm the resolution and prove why there should be more restrictions on violent video games. I will ask that voters cast their vote in this round based on who debates the resolution and not based on your own personal decisions. Keep in mind that I participant in games such as Call of Duty, but I am arguing this debate for practice on my debating skills. Thanks! Blood and gore intense violence, strong language, strong sexual content, and use of drugs. These are the words that you will see on every M-Rated Violent Video Game. The people who rated these games are not lying. The words speak for themselves. In this Debate, I will prove that the bad effects of video gaming outweigh the so called ""fun"" of video gaming. For these reasons and more, I strongly affirm the resolution which states: Resolved: There should be more restrictions on violent video games. I will begin with Contention #1 Contention #1: Brain Change A new study, conducted at Indiana University School of Society and presented at the congress of the Society of Radiology in Chicago found the first hard evidence of the effects of video games using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Playing violent video games for only one week can change the brain in regions associated with cognitive function and emotional control, the study found. A volunteer group of 22 young men aged between 18 and 29 years with low past exposure to video games were asked to play Call of Duty games for 10 hours a week for one week and to avoid playing at all the following week. A second volunteer group didn't play a violent video game at all. Each group was performed a test that quizzed their emotional and functional parts of the brain After only one week, those volunteers who played violent video games showed less activation in the area of the brain that control emotion and aggression. What this basically means: The test speaks for itself, playing video games affects how people think and ruins their emotional and logical sides of their brains and can only lead to more harm than good. Contention #2: Why It's Particularly Bad for Young Brains Little kids have a hard time distinguishing the line between the real-world and the gaming world, as young minds are still forming what is real and what is make-believe. To kids, these virtual experiences feel very real, not only because the graphics today are so amazing, but because they are taking on a first-person role in the killing process. Rather than just watching a rated-R violent movie, when kids play a game, they are one of the main characters inside the adventure. The entire experience becomes a more meaningful -- and deadly -- in their brains, which are forming new connections What this basically means: Smaller children are affected the worst by video games because they cannot see the line between the real world and the gaming world. These kind of problems can lead to school attacks. An excellent example of such is the Connecticut school shooting. Adam Lanza was an American teenager who killed 26 innocent people during a school shooting. Adam went to the Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut on Dec. 14 and shot dead 20 children and 6 adults, including the school principal. He also killed his mother, Nancy Lanza, before he went to the school. He then killed himself, and the entire community has been left reeling in the wake of the horrific massacre. This is all because of video games. Adam was obsessed with Call of Duty, a very popular M-rated video game, and other extremely video games. So what we have to see is violent video games only lead to problems in society and putting restrictions on M-Rated video games is essential to protect the future generation of gamers. Sources: http://www.dailymail.co.uk...... http://www.africa-news.eu...... \ http://parentables.howstuffworks.com...... http://videogames.procon.org......"	PRO	463
463	S2f5f5fc2-A4b828655	Video Games Cause Bad Behavior	"Thanks to my opponent (CON) for the chance to debate this subject. As I posted in the 'comments' section, I have some observations that I would like to make. Cons claim and argument is that ""video games can not or do not cause bad (violent) behavior."" I take the ""Pro"" position and I accepted this challenge, because I believe that video games can and do cause ""bad"" and even ""violent"" behavior in some of the people who play them. As we have four rounds to this debate and I honestly will not need that much time for my own arguments, I would like to ask my opponent (Pro) a couple of simple questions that will set the premise for my position. Please complete the following saying; 1. ""Garbage in equals ___________ out."" 2. ""You are what you ______."""	PRO	464
464	Sb381c0ed-Ad745ad86	Video games do not cause children to commit crimes	"Lets see like I said before about the video games could make them mad but it does not cause any homicide behavior. 1. Dylan and Harris were the two shooters. I can show that video games do not cause violence because studies have shown that mass murders are caused by mental illness or a experience. Dylan was known for swearing at teachers and arguing with his co workers. Both were bullied and was unpopular.The game doom was just the layout it did not influence them to kill.Harris had anger management problems and had lots of rage. The game was just the layout. The full report also states that in his paper said ""I want to die this world does not know who I f_ing am"" he also wanted to kill everyone with him. This tragic was caused by the experience of bullying or how there life was.Video games have nothing to do with it. 2. Well you are saying children think that the things on video game influence them to do something that is right and you involve TV shows. Well here's what I am going to say * Children do not take these things on the real life of course it happens to themselves like I said Dylan was not a very great student because he cursed at teachers. Of course I doubt the game doom had nothing to do with it and the game doom never had no foul language because its all about shooting. So this shows how kids were already bad before they had the game. *http://www.chinalawblog.com... China has more video games then we do in USA and the crime rate is extremely low. This also shows how video games do not cause violence and it also shows that its the people who choose to do the crime. 3. People just kill animals for their goods and money and even if you Bann video games people will keep killing elephants for ivory. In conclusion video games do not cause children to cause crime and that's, that."	PRO	465
465	Sa5ca39dc-A26919d7f	violent video games do NOT breed violence	"First off, the Huffington post is in no way a reliable source it is a newsgroup thus its goal is not to spread information but to make you click on the article and make the company money, in fact, its even better for them if what they wrote is infactual because then they can write a second article on it and double their cash flow. Secondly, as stated by Patrick Markey, an associate professor of psychology at Villanova University, the director of the Interpersonal Research Laboratory, a former president of the Society for Interpersonal Theory and Research, and a researcher in many studies connecting video games to violence, there have been zero studies connecting violent video games with real-life violence ""Research clearly suggests that exposure to violent video games temporarily increases a person's hostility. However, research does not show a clear link between playing violent video games and real-world violence."" (Mankey 4). Markey, Patrick. ""In Defense of Video Games."" Ebscohost, Ebsco Industries, 26 Apr. 2013, web.b.ebscohost.com/ehost/detail/detail?vid=2&sid=56610e3b-9cc2-4e49-b253-76b66c67cdf4%40pdc-v-sessmgr01&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWhvc3QtbGl2ZQ%3d%3d#AN=87904141&db=ulh."	PRO	466
466	Scc799d93-Aca4e9231	Some video games are bad for kids	Yes. And out of all the places I've been, I've met a lot of kids who prefer the sports games. And most kids take alot of interest because most of them like the sports that they play on video games. And after they're done, they usually want to go outside and play some more. All we really need to do is step up the propoganda and make more sports games than we're getting. Than more people would become interested.	CON	467
467	S6ba1043a-A90dbc944	Religion causes more violence than video games	"I will gladly accept this debate in the hopes that it will show the instigator once and for all the after effects of video games. 10 biggest wars related to religion: http://addictivelists.com... We will assign a value of 10. Number of wars/battles related to video games: None as far as i can see (beside the occasional teenage/preteen level bully fights) that were major. So we will assign a value of 0. Now you would argue that all of these facts are against the Con (me) strengthening Pro's argument/s. But the reason why i chose this debate is due to this ""there were more - than"" Let's do the math: 10 wars/battles due to religion / 0 wars/battles due to video games = Cannot divide by 0 Let's re-arrange that ""equation"" then 0 wars/battles due to video games / 10 wars/battles due to religion = 0 Therefore; concluding, there were 0 times more wars generated by religion than video games. Hope this helps Pro"	CON	468
468	Sa4ba24f0-Adcb30a4d	Legos are better than video games!	This is a little fun debate on whether or not I should spend more of my time in playing with Lego's or video games. I will try to make this good, and spend most of my effort in doing so! Thank you for debating me. 1) Saves money When you play video games, most people go through it pretty quickly, as they get tired of it very soon. However, Lego's give you the ability to cherish what you have and don't lose the pieces since you have a set/fixed amount each time you buy a set. This will let parents save money, and over the years, the amount of Lego's will build up so you will have a variety to choose from. You can incorporate your previous bricks that you have bought and put it together with the newer pieces.	PRO	469
469	Sccb645e6-A903312d7	Video games are ruining our young men	Thank you for the opportunity to create a debate for a semi-topical issue within the gaming community. You really haven't set up a system for how the rounds are going to work, so here is what I will say. _________________________________________________________________________________________________ Reasons why video games are not ruining our young men and why your arguments are not powerful. 1. You are not providing any sources for why video games are ruining young men. You are coming to a conclusion based on personal examples and just focusing on one aspect of notable sexism in society. Please cite sources that state directly that these games are destroying young men and are doing more bad than good. 2. Speaking of which, there have been studies shown that video games actually do have a good side to them.[1] 3. Kitchen and sandwich jokes were probably around way before video games, and it's just general sexism based on cultural adaptations and expectations where women did the cooking and cleaning while men went off to work. Video games had nothing to do with that and do not show any evidence that it is 'destroying' young male players. 4. Sexual harrassment can occur anywhere, not just on video games. It can happen to any gender, not jst one. 5. You say that these are 'young men' saying that stuff and 'they'll grow up and think these things are okay'. What evidence do you have that video game 'sexism' in younger people is going to make them grow up with such a mindset? Again, you are not providing any sources. 6. You say that 'it could happen' with the gender roles switching, but not as much as male players. Again, what evidence do you have that proves your statement to be valid? I await your rebuttals. ... Sources: [1] http://www.huffingtonpost.com...	CON	470
470	Sfa0d150d-A14b37c7a	Video Games are more successful than Movies.	"Thanks for the reply. I will admit you have presented the better side of the statistics, and will concede that movies make more money during their lifetime than video games. Violence: If we spend more time on video games than movies, wouldn't that make them more successful, as people are using the product much more than another entertainment form? Regardless here is my rebuttal in some short bullet points: *Lets say someone spends 6 hours playing a violent video game, isn't that the equivalent of someone watching 6 hours of Movies...some would say no because games are used within a shorter time period, however this contradicts studies that show effects of violent games/movies never ""wears off"". Therefore the time spent on a violent movie or game is irrelevant, because in the end, taking breaks wont stop someone from becoming violent.Hence your first reason is not a key trait ""for deeper impact of video games."" *Movies make mothers, fathers and children (actors of these movies) seem potent in the murder of people. Look at Mrs. and Mr. Smith, its portrays two real life people, (and now a married couple with children i think, not too updated on gossip) killing hordes of servicemen, in slow motion action sequences that make killing look 'cool' or surreal. This is just as bad, if not worse than letting a gamer commit acts of pixel murder. Encouraging discussions: ""...in highlighting issues and instigating debates..."" I believe violent video games just recently instigated an argument between both of us. Also video games like call of duty instigate debates on the Media's representation of soldiers, for example...Although that example can be somewhat negative, movies also instigate debates that are negative, such as poverty, or the War on Terror, and because you claim that movies instigate more meaningful debates, than these debates would have a negative influence. Sources: http://www.apa.org... http://www.asc.upenn.edu... For round 1, Con presented ideas based only on opinion, in round 2 he has shown better statistics but forced me to debate violent video games rather than backing up his previous statements, Hence I believe i have presented the much more meaningful arguments, that show that the Video games are indeed more successful than movies."	PRO	471
471	S8a9f614c-Aeb1ebe3a	should violent video games be banned.	Most of Violence does not come from video games. Like you said intense gore, strong language, and drugs are on the backs of the case, but that is the choice you make. If you go to new York there is gangs every where. You see fights break out almost always. And stores take precautions for selling games to young minds.	CON	472
472	Sfa0d150d-Addaffcf2	Video Games are more successful than Movies.	It should be noted that he has posted first day sales. He has then used these sales to argue that video games are more successful than movies. Let me post some statistics: Halo2: First day sales: 2.38 million = $125million Lifetime total: 8.43million http://gamrreview.vgchartz.com... http://www.msnbc.msn.com... I could not find total lifetime sales in $ but we can estimate it to be around $450million(8.43/2.38*125). It is interesting to note that compared to movies, video games have huge first day sales. This can be explained: Video games build up a niche fan base; there is a rush to buy the game on the first day. There are queues on the first day. For Halo2 the first day sales are actually 25% of the total sales!! We can see this from the charts given at gamrreview.vgchartz.com Movies on the other hand run for months (titanic=41weeks in theatres). Let us look at some hard facts: Avatar grossed $1.86 billion. Titanic grossed $1.84billion. http://www.nytimes.com... http://techland.time.com... Halo2 was released in 2004. Titanic was released in 1997! The average inflation rates from 1997 to 2004: 1997: 2.34% 1998:1.55% 1999: 2.19% 2000:3.38% 2001: 2.83% 2002: 1.59% 2003: 2.27% Clearly 1$ was worth more in 1997 than in 2004. This is why I believe that the earnings of Titanic are more significant than halo2/halo3. http://inflationdata.com... Clearly, movies provide greater economic returns to the maker. This is important because this was my opponent’s base in instigating this debate. For the sake of thoroughness I post statistics of halo3: First week: 3.8million = $300million (Wikipedia) http://en.wikipedia.org... Lifetime total: 11.3million http://gamrreview.vgchartz.com... _________________________________________________________________________________________________ Violent video games have a greater psychological impact than violent movies. This is because we spend greater time on video games as compared to movies. In first person shooter games, a gamer is playing from the view point of the shooter. The gamer is actually carrying out the violence. These two reasons are principally responsible for deeper impact of video games. I don’t know how to post a pdf to DDO; hence I will give you a search link: Research on video game violence: http://scholar.google.co.in... ____________________________________________________________________________________________________ I agree with my opponent, entertainment value is subjective. We cannot make a good comparative evaluation of the entertainment value. The closest we can come in evaluating the entertainment value is through units sold i.e. movie tickets vs. video game units. Movies have a larger audience (my opponent has already conceded this). ______________________________________________________________________________________________________ Encouraging discussions and making a positive impact: Video games instigate debates about themselves. Movies are more successful in highlighting issues and instigating debates about a certain topic. These debates may have positive impacts in real life.	CON	473
473	S8769b9cf-A8d8b5d8	Violent Video games cause desensitization	The Journal of the American Medical Association claims that if, hypothetically, television technology had never been developed, there would be today 10,000 fewer homicides this year, and 700,000 fewer injurious assaults. Soldiers in the army play violent video games to get over killing. Finally, Studies were done. People playing games like Call of Duty reacted far less to violence, and were more prone to violence, than those who hadn't. Sources: http://www.killology.com...	PRO	474
474	Sd4bb089c-Affb059c9	Violent video games lead to violent behaivior	"There are two problems with studies on this subject. The first is that they assume correlation implies causation. Maybe people become more aggressive from playing violent video games. Maybe violent video games are more enjoyable to more aggressive people. Or maybe there is a third factor that causes both. The second problem is that they only measure in short-term lengths. It's one thing to have volunteers play Call of Duty and then measure their activity. It's another thing to say that these games have a long-term, psychological effect on the actions of those people who play them. To quote the study Violent Video Games and Real-World Violence: Rhetoric Versus Data, ""finding that a young man who committed a violent crime also played a popular video game, such as Call of Duty, Halo, or Grand Theft Auto, is as pointless as pointing out that the criminal also wore socks."" If anything, these games provide catharsis. One of the major theories for the evolutionary need for imagination is catharsis. If an individual has pent up anger, fictional acts of aggression have proved to relieve said anger. How much more so could these games release the anger? Thanks, its time for your argument."	CON	475
475	S61e968f7-Afc3362ce	video games help hand eye coordination	Yes, I concede that if you are playing a game that requires the movement of your hand, you will increase HEC. Since all video games are not motion games, I believe it would be inaccurate to say that video games increase HEC since you are only talking about a small number of games that have only been around for less than 10 years.	CON	476
476	S2a1e2055-A68df2797	should kids be able to play violent video games	"Well to Start things off as soon as there's a mass shooting in schools are anywhere they immediately blame violent video games. Well did they really research before they say these claims? Well obviously they didn't because only 2 of 9 mass shooters were actually into violent video games. The reason they started these claims is because of the amount of evidence showing that violent video games causes aggression and they're right. But not by a lot because. According to Catherine Newman, ""tons of small children play Silent shooter games that only a small fraction become violent."" I have a friend and he is interested in games like Call of Duty and Mortal Combat and he is actually quiet and relaxed, has a good sense of humor and in generally nice."	PRO	477
477	Sfa0d150d-A5683674c	Video Games are more successful than Movies.	My opponent has made an interesting point: “If we spend more time on video games than movies, wouldn't that make them more successful, as people are using the product much more than another entertainment form?” I do not think this is a good argument because this implies that a 2hr 30min movie is more successful than a 2hr 20min movie. The absolute amount of time spent on the entertainment is not an accurate indicator of its success because different forms are intended to entertain for different amounts. Movies and games are intended to last for different time spans. We watch most movies from start to end. Most of the time, we do not play all the levels of a game. In that sense the movie maker has been more successful in keeping us hooked till the end. This is merely my opinion and the reader is encouraged to make their own assessment by comparing number of movies in which they stopped watching before the movie ended and the number of games they stopped playing before they finished all the levels. 6 hours of 1 violent game =/= 3 movies of 2 hours each (6 hours of movie time) This is because in playing a game you are in the same mindset for 6 hours. Watching different movies would result in watching different perspectives and would not leave as deep an impact. However this is only my opinion and I’m no expert. The reader may feel free to junk this argument. I strongly disagree with my opponent’s rebuttal of the first person perspective point. Since I am no expert, I will post some extracts from the 1st link of my opponent’s round 3 argument (interestingly Craig Anderson’s study was in my scholar.google link). “First, the active role required by video games is a double-edged sword. It helps educational video games be excellent teaching tools for motivational and learning process reasons. But, it also may make violent video games even more hazardous than violent television or cinema.” “Another gap concerns potential differences in effect sizes of television versus video game violence. There are theoretical reasons to believe that violent video game effects may prove larger, primarily because of the active and repetitive learning aspects of video games. ‘ My opponent points out that slow motion sequences that make killing look cool are bad. In my experience these sequences occur frequently in games. Personal experience: Pc game, Prince of Persia-the two thrones. http://media.cube.ign.com... Encouraging discussions: It is important to provoke discussions because when we debate, we think. It is better to think and make a mistake than to not have thought at all. Video games may instigate debates but movies do it with a greater frequency and are hence more successful. This is something that cannot be proved decisively, the reader is encouraged to use his own experience in deciding. ___________________________________________________ I apologize for a sloppy Round 1. Regarding defense of previous statements in round 2: I discussed entertainment value. I discussed value to society through 1. Violent video games & 2.Instigating debates related to issues, a rebuttal to his argument: video games also instigate issues. Instigating debate about gameplay is not relevant because we are discussing value to society. My opponent has been forced to debate violent games because his original point regarding economic returns was rebutted ;) _________________ --------- ____________________________ VOTE CON! I thank my opponent for an excellent debate. He was open minded and posted his arguments regularly. I hope we continue to debate in the future. I thank the reader for taking the time to read this debate.Suggestions are welcome.	CON	478
478	Se927395d-Ab2ff74fc	Video games can actually be beneficial	"Ignoring the semantics, My adversary is trying to twist the meaning of a word in order to garnish and advantage. He is also misinterpreting his own source. If you follow his own source, we would find that resolution in fact coverts too Video games can truthfully/factually beneficial This has nothing to do with objective purpose. For something to be beneficial it has to be advantageous or result in good ( http://dictionary.reference.com... ) . Something can result in good for someone without ""humanity having an objective purpose"" R1) Redirecting the resolution His entire premise is false and makes no sense. There are plenty of things that are beneficial to me and others without myself or them knowing if they have an objective purpose or not. Exercising and eating healthy, along with over various things clearly have positive impacts on my life and I don't have a damn blue what my true purpose in life is. C1) Can Can is defined as to be able too meaning that I do not have to prove an objective benefit. The only thing I have to do is show that it's possible there is a benefit from videos games. This is completely independent of whether or not we know our objective purpose. Again there are plenty of things I can gain or benefit from without knowing my objective purpose. http://dictionary.reference.com... His criticisms to do actually link to my argument at all which make them invalid. C2) Net benefits of video games Video games on balance improve hand eye coordination, problem solving capabilities, learning , health, and even social skills ( http://www.apa.org... ). All these have a positive impact on someones life regardless or not whether they know their purpose objectively. Meaning all the aforementioned things help improve their quality of life , because it teaches them skills they can utilized throughout their life. C) The resolution is affirmed. ________________________________________________________________ Not to be regarded in this debate and for funsies You can define your objective purpose, in regards to death. We all live to die. So the objective purpose is to improve our life until that point."	PRO	479
479	S4227ac9d-A4d868801	Selling violent video games to minors is okay.	"The Supreme Court has lately debated whether or not violent video games should be allowed to be sold to minors. ""Violent video games"" are bloody, gory, and sometimes offensive video games. They are usually, but not necessarily, rated M for Mature (17+). Some examples are Resident Evil 4, Silent Hill: Homecoming, and Manhunt 2. I believe it should not be illegal to sell these kinds of games to teens ages 13 to 18. Though parents might not want their kids to own these kinds of games, the law should not forcefully restrict the right. My contender will start his initial arguments in this round, and I will counter argue in the second. I personally do not play violent video games, nor am I interested in them. However, when I saw this article on Yahoo!, I couldn't help but think it was unnecessary to make them illegal for minors. (1) http://www.huffingtonpost.com... Good luck to my opponent."	PRO	480
480	Se42653aa-Ab2074ab0	Video games don't equal violence	Some video games do equal violence. They sometimes include shooting guns and especially, if you have a sibling, they learn from the older siblings.	CON	481
481	S35cf0a2c-A13459562	Video Games: Indie games are more enjoyable than larger, more expensive games.	"Hello njhill! I accept this debate and am looking forward to it. I am going to assume first round is for acceptance and will therefore post my arguments in the following round. Let's clear up some definitions Indie games: ""Independent video games (commonly referred to as indie games) are video games created by individuals or small teams generally without video game publisher financial support."" Therefore the other side of the spectrum would be games that are created by video game publishers. Enjoyable: ""Giving or capable of giving joy or pleasure."" Pro and I are arguing whether small independent games are more are more capable of giving joy or pleasure than bigger dependent published games. I will assume that this will include PC, console games and handheld games as well. You may start your argument Pro, good luck! Sources for definitions: https://en.wikipedia.org... http://dictionary.reference.com..."	CON	482
482	Se62711e-Aeec18397	Video Games do not Cause Violence	In this debate I will defend that video games do not cause violence. First round is for acceptance. Please only accept if you plan on finishing the debate.	PRO	483
483	S271b8702-A4e4aaf5	Video Games do not Make Kids Violent	"In fact a couple of teenagers from South Korea died from continuous computer game that was lasting about 23 hours! So, how should we deal with it? It is obvious that video games do have a great influence on gamers' mind and sometimes the result might be lethal. Actually these ""idiot kids"" exist nowadays. They can not realize the harm from the video games. Unfortunately yes, partly this is parents' fault. They buy computer games to their kids and make advances to them. However they do not realize all the matter. Parents that don not deal with video games and even do not see all the scary things from games are not able to understand all the importance specifically that virtual reality may change their child's life for a while."	CON	484
484	S7ce7f2b7-Ab50644da	Video Games should be allowed in school no matter what it is	I confirm that video games should be allowed in school because those that play video games have proven to be able to double task and focus more often.	PRO	485
485	Sd333ea9a-A666c7869	Video Games do more harm than good	"I would like to thank Phoenix_Reaper for debating this highly relevant issue with me. My opponent has defined harm as ""damage or injury that..."". I accept his definitions but I would like to point out that the damage need not be physical only. It can be psychological. The damage might be the damage to the academic grades of a student as a result of addiction to video games. Video games are a fascinating invention of mankind. It allows a person to imagine herself as the brave warrior taking on the whole battalions all alone. Or it allows her to plan battle strategies. Or play cricket, scoring sixes that will put Sachin Tendulkar to shame. Or to drive around the town at speeds at which formula One drivers would panic. And the best part is - it is risk free. If you crash while playing road rash, you never die or get injured. You just lose a bit of time. Worst case, you press escape and restart! These are the reasons why video games sales are sky rocketing. As per an article published in edge magazine the video games industry is worth $44 billion! [1] But, are the video games risks free? Unfortunately, we have clear evidence that the video games, as they exist, are causing severe harm. Addiction: Ironically, the biggest problem with video games is there success. They are so successful that people find it addictive. As per a survey conducted for Americans by NPD group [2], a market research firm, gamers nearly spend over 13 hours per week playing video games. A small subset of around 4% plays video games for over 48 hours every week. Video games have become serious problems in South Korea [3]. Around 2.4 % of the population is addicted while 10.2% are on the borderline. Borderline cases are considered as cases where the gaming seriously begins to interfere in life leading to sleep deprivation and loosening grip on reality. One of the most problematic segments may be Massive Multiplayer Online Role Playing Games (MMORPG). As per Maressa Orzack [4], a psycologist and computer addiction specialists, 40 % of MMORPG players may be addicted to these games. Social Life and Academic Performance: Naturally the time spent in gaming world is the time lost in real world. This affects the real social life of people. The difference between the real and virtual world may become blurred. It also affects the academic performance of addicted gamers. As per a research published in Archives of Pediatrics & Adolescent Medicine [5][6], teens boys and girls who play video games spend less time on studies. They expressed concern that video games will interfere with the development of skills needed to make a successful transition to adulthood. They concluded that concerns regarding gamers' neglect of school responsibilities (reading and homework) are warranted. Maressa Orzack [4] confirms that she gets students from Ivy League colleges suffering from addiction. In University of Essex, she informs a game MUD has been given the unofficial title of Multiple Undergraduate Destroyer. The real title is Multi User Dungeon. In 2008, Deborah Taylor Tate, speaking at Practicing Law Institute on Telecom Policy and Regulation confirmed [7], ""You might find it alarming that one of the top reasons for college drop-outs in the U.S. is online gaming addiction— such as World of Warcraft — which is played by 11 million individuals worldwide."" Distracts from physical activity / sports: As people experience ultimate thrill while playing video games, they lose interest from real life activity. In video game soccer, you can score fantastic goals without much exertion. Scoring normal goals in average match is much more difficult - without any glamour. Why bother then? Research conducted by a team of National Center for Health Marketing at the Centers for Disease Control [8] in Seattle-Tacoma area, found strong correlation between regular gaming and internet use, and increased risk for depression, higher body mass index (BMI), and other negative physical and mental health issues. Conditioning to violence: A significant fraction of video games are violent. A research conducted by Craig A. Anderson of Iowa State University [9] found that ""Exposure to violent video games is significantly linked to increases in aggressive behaviour, aggressive cognition, aggressive affect, and cardiovascular arousal, and to decreases in helping behaviour. Experimental studies reveal this linkage to be causal. Correlational studies reveal a linkage to serious, real-world types of aggression."" People who are exposed to these video games become desensitized to violence, which contributes in raising the level of aggression in society. The California State Congress passed a law restricting access to violent video games - specially for minors [10][11]. An appeal is pending before Supreme and decisions is expected shortly [12]. Degradation of women: Research published in a SpringerLink article [13] found that traditional gender roles and violence as central to many games. 28% of the video games treated women as sex object. While 80% of the games were violent, 21% depicted violence targeted specifically at women. A Japanese video game 'RapeLay' lead to international outrage[14]. The purpose of the game was to rape a teenage girl. In US, a hidden portion of the popular video game GTA: San Andreas was found to contain explicit sex scenes [15]. I might present more evidence and arguments in the next round, depending on the thrust of my opponents response. It is now turn of my esteemed opponent to enlighten us about the benefits of video games. [1] http://www.next-gen.biz... [2] http://asia.gamespot.com... [3] http://www.washingtonpost.com... [4] http://web.archive.org... [5] http://www.sciencedaily.com... [6] http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov... [7] http://hraunfoss.fcc.gov... [8] http://healthland.time.com... [9] http://www.sciencedirect.com... [10] http://www.gamasutra.com... [11] http://law.justia.com... [12] http://gadgets.ndtv.com... [13] http://www.springerlink.com... [14] http://articles.cnn.com... [15] http://asia.gamespot.com..."	PRO	486
486	Sfc941f94-A38678af0	why video games are good for you.	You said it yourself. Yay!!! You admitted it yourself that it depends upon the person contradicting your stand why video games have benefits. Wohoo!!!	CON	487
487	Sd2501881-Ac806357b	this house would ban video games	Distracts students from their studying period students get easily distracted due to their addiction towards video games making them to neglect the importance of education.	PRO	488
488	Sb381c0ed-Ae9d1cb13	Video games do not cause children to commit crimes	So here's my point that video games do not commit crimes which is very true it may make the child lack in intelligence but not violence that they would be able to commit crimes in such a way. 1. The purpose of a video game is child amusement/entertainment which means video games were not meant to motivate crime 2.'Studies have shown that video games do not harm the brain or cause violent acts' http://www.minnpost.com... http://www.geeknewscentral.com... http://www.scribd.com... http://www.justice.govt.nz... Reasons By gathering all the evidence I can show that video games do not harm the brain and support the quote. People commit crimes in many ways because of this *Gene cells in their body which are inherited from relatives, family members, and your parents. If a child was born from the acts of a criminal they would have that criminal behavior inside part of their body *Experience from a human bein could cause violent crimes just like how batman's parents got killed and from that experience he started to become a hero. Remember this is an example so I am just giving an example about an experience. Experience that would turn a person into a criminal is that something must have happened in their life that was so tragic that they would want to go and kill. Another example is that after the Adam Lanzer had a problem with having a normal life and interaction so this shows what could have caused what happened at this day. In the news papers they also stated this 'He kept tabs of trigger happy video games' this does not show what the show that video games caused it. Adam Lanzer was unstable so keeping him near a gun was not the right choice which his mom had assault weapons in his house. *Revenge is another way of crime being caused because during the incident of Atiq Hennis, Anthony Hennis was a criminal who had about twenty three arrest records. 'The shooters brother had a old beef with Anthony Hennis' which shows that the criminal and murderer of the baby wanted revenge *Drugs and Achohal can be another cause because those type of drinks changes the human behavior and effect the brain. Revising To go back to the statement that video games do not effect the brain. To support this, studies and research shows that video games could decrease the physical violence of children. Now here is what many people are saying is that GTA is a game about killing at random. That is not what the game is about, that's what the users choose to do and you do not have to do missions with killing you can just live your life as a good guy. CoD is also another game people think motivates crime. Call of duty is a game about army's and military not any game with stealing goods from others and killing innocents. Children who buy games and commits crimes after they played were like that before they got it. In conclusion, video would not have an effect on your brain in that matter we can all say video games are meant to be enjoyable.	PRO	489
489	Sdc226c19-A17ad9ea4	Video Games Cause Real-World Violence	"While video games are not the main cause of most of the violence in the world, they do -in fact- cause some amount of violence. The violence caused by games being very minor, does not change the fact that some violence is indeed caused. One example would be the GTA copycat murder in Thailand. It is made clear the cause is the video game itself: ""He allegedly intended to rob the taxi driver before the robbery turned violent and later allegedly admitted to police that murdering someone was harder in real life than it appeared in the game."" Video games directly causing violence is a rare issue but it does happen."	PRO	490
490	Sb84c76ff-Ae84ce8d	no violent video games don't cause violence	So, for clarity, I'm arguing that violent video games CAN lead to violence. Here is an article for you to read http://liti4.wordpress.com... - in the article this 17 year old claims that he thought if he shot his parents they would respawn. Now if this guy is telling the truth, then that proves beyond doubt that the violent video game (Halo 3 in this case) was the cause of the violence, and even if he was lying, the reason that he shot his parents was because they WOULD NOT let him play Halo 3, so he killed them. This shows an addiction to the violent video game that allows for extraneous violence to occur, therefore proving that the violent video game caused violence, thus proving that violent video games CAN lead to violence. That is to say, violent video games do not ALWAYS cause violence, but CAN in some cases. Now, your argument used the term 'psyche', which is defined as the human soul. You claimed that violence is not caused by playing a violent video game, but by the person's soul. Therefore, burden of proof is on you to prove that humans have souls. If you cannot prove that humans have souls, then, as you have not given any other reason that violence may occur, you are accepting that kids who have played violent video games and then become violent are violent due to those violent video games. I look forward to your argument.	PRO	491
491	Sd5fac21c-A8fc9b5dd	Video Games Are Good for You	Most video games aren't multiplayer. Skyrim, a popular game, is an extremely solitary experience. I've wasted hours completing idiotic quests as my social skills declined. 2. So can cigarettes, but it doesn't matter because, in the end, they cause more pain than they are worth. 3. These studies are pretty sketchy, and the authors were probably avid gamers attempting to justify their useless hobby. Having faster reactions and some largely useless skill is not a really of significant benefit, and, as you can see, there also exists numerous reports based on empirical data that have found a serious link with obesity and violent behavior. GG.	CON	492
492	Saa60f638-Aa983bbf1	Video Games Are Harmful to Kids	Wow -- You sure do make a cogent argument! I happily concede. As a mother of video-game loving boys, I agree that the responsibility does rest on the parent. I may have misgivings about some of the types of games being produced, but the same holds true in many areas -- music, which has a powerful emotional/ psychological impact, certainly falls under that category. I also liked your response regarding ADD/ADHD, a subject of professional interest. Excellent work.	PRO	493
493	Se20430a8-A47625bf1	Video games are not bad	So this is going to be my first test as debating a side i don't support, but here it goes: Video games are, for the most part bad. Not only do a lot of them contribute to obesity, but some of them are the catalysts that trigger a psychopath. Time could be better spent in a book, or out with friends. yes, some are good, such as the Wii, but for the most part, it is unneeded simulation. If you see something in a game and think it looks cool, such as skateboarding, you may want to take it up in real life. But that future hobby could be quite dangerous, not only could it be about killing people, but it could be as simple as skydiving, which could result in your death.	CON	494
494	Sa90756e8-A8b6f1a27	There should be more restrictions on violent video games	"Ok, I am going to narrow down this debate and explain why I have won this round. There are many arguments that andrew.denslow could use to attack my case. His arguments are completely based on his own opinion. He also did not label his contentions so I will just start from the top and attack his arguments downward. andrew.denslow""s first argument: First of all, three of your four links are broken. Secondly, even if I believe you about your first point, which you haven't proven, should we restrict video games based on one study? When we talk about restrictions, we are talking about the people""s freedoms being restricted. We should have a lot of evidence before we think about doing that. My response to that: I have a multitude of evidence and examples that prove why there should be restrictions on video games. So when andrew.denslow claims that I have a lack of evidence, he is wrong. He attacks my evidence on an extremely accurate study, but he has failed to provide any examples or evidence for his side of the case. He did however have a semi-well argument about restrictions on the games taking away citizens freedoms. Now let me ask everyone a question. Do people deserve their rights if it puts other citizens in danger? I brought up this argument in my case. Smaller children are affected the worst by video games because they cannot see the line between the real world and the gaming world. The Connecticut school shooting. Adam Lanza was an American teenager who killed 26 innocent people during a school shooting. Adam went to the Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut on Dec. 14 and shot dead 20 children and 6 adults, including the school principal. He also killed his mother, Nancy Lanza, before he went to the school. He then killed himself, and the entire community has been left reeling in the wake of the horrific massacre. This is all because of video games. Adam was obsessed with Call of Duty, a very popular M-rated video game, and other extremely videogames. If restrictions would have been put on M-rated video games, those innocent children at Sandy Hook Elementary School would still be alive and living a happier and safer life. andrew.denslow""s second argument: Also, shouldn't it be the parents job to stop kids from playing video games. We already have laws in place to prevent minors from purchasing games, do we really need more? If a parent doesn't want their kids to play violent video games, then they won't buy it. Why is it people think that the government needs to be parents? Parents should be parents. My response to that: The current resolution states: There should be more restrictions on violent video games. Keep in mind, this is the resolution that my opponent has chosen to debate and I am only basing my arguments off his resolution. Nowhere in his resolution does it state whether this is a U.S. federal law or a law within the family should govern the restrictions. Yes, it is the parents responsible to set restrictions for their children, but when citizens are attacked or hurt from video gaming addicts, it should become a government law to protect the citizens of this country. The government has the responsibility to protect its citizens and be a government. andrew.denslow""s last argument: Lastly, many restrictions would be ineffective. Unless you totally ban violent video games, than any laws couldn't plausibly be enforced. It would be wrong to ban violent video games. That is taking away people""s rights. It would also be dumb to ban all violent video games in an attempt to stop minors from playing them. Should we ban alcohol completely because it can really screw kids up big time? My response to this: I do not see how the restrictions would be ineffective. It is as simple as 2+2=4. Putting restrictions on extremely violent video games can only benefit society as we know it. Children would not be exposed to the violence in videogames and the overall safety of every man, woman and child would be preserved. For these reasons and more all I can see is a pro ballet! I look forward to my opponents next response."	PRO	495
495	Sbed8bb66-Ac3072054	Feminism is ruining video games	Apologies for the very delayed response. I’ll try to be more punctual in the future. My opponent has proven his point that feminism is, in some shape or form, influencing video games. However, he fails to articulate, fully, the exact nature of his argument, which is that feminism is ruining video games. In order to prove this point, I’ve taken the liberty of highlighting a few of his quotes from his previous argument. 1. “But in my example with an established game like Mortal Kombat, they just decided to change the story drastically in favour of a female antagonist being the main hero.” My first question is how does feminism directly affect this? How can we assure it was feminism that caused this creative change and not the simplistic idealism of the team in charge of crafting this editions story? Secondly, what evidence is there that this creative change ruined the game? While it may have negatively impacted my opponent’s own gameplay, this does not mean that the majority of others felt the same way. Now, full disclosure, I am only somewhat familiar with the Mortal Combat series, so my reaction to this creative choice was not nearly as dramatic as others. However, the main point is that feminism may not have been the root of this change, which means feminism may not have ruined the game. 2. “The question I ask is why? I know its up to the developers of the game but was it needed for the story, or was it just for the sake of pandering to feminist women who always want a perfect female dominated story?” My opponent asks this question, which is the root of my argument: there is no knowledge if the root of the change was because of creative direction or feminism pandering. 3. “Its only an issue because feminist women are insecure, and that personal emotion bring the value down of the game.” This is a fact statement, therefore it needs credulity. If my opponent wishes to state such things, then they must fully support these assertions. 4. “Imagine if every game had to politically pander to a certain group, then stories won't be interesting, and lose the creativity and imagination that games are known for.” Yet again, my opponent assumes that political pandering is at the root for every change in video games that may be attributed to feminism. However, he continues to fail at properly stating why and how he knows this. 5. “Mainly what I am saying is that feminist feel entitled to point out characters that they deem inappropriate, but the majority of gamers, and even society, don't agree with their values.” This last statement is a truly troublesome one for my opponent. He provides a fact statement rooted in incredulity. Firstly, he has no evidence that the majority of gamers, let alone society, disagree with feminist values. Secondly, he still has no proof that feminism directly caused these changes. Lastly, and by far most importantly, he is basing the whole of his argument on the changes made in ONE GAME. This is not conclusive, whatsoever. In short, while my opponent has raised an interesting idea, he has yet to support it properly. Because of this, I ask that he provide more evidence in the next round lest he allow the inferences of his argument be the weight of his arguments. That’s all for now. Thanks for your patience! I’m quite enjoying this.	CON	496
496	Sfa0d150d-A5993bf75	Video Games are more successful than Movies.	"Thanks for accepting the debate. I knew i was forgetting something when i posted for round 1... but regardless we shall debate your third definition and then we'll see where the debate leads to. Rebuttals: 1: ""Encouraging discussions. Movies, unlike video games have been successful time and again in provoking debates in the society. Movies can be motivational and provide hope to those who may need it."" Now this is merely an opinion, many people will have different things they would enjoy to discuss, such as Perks from ""Call of Duty""...to the intentions of the Illuminati from ""Angels and Demons"". We cant really say that video games don't provoke debates, just look at this debate I found:http://www.debate.org... video game ALWAYS provoke debates, mainly because of their huge fanbases, and trolling fanboys, but regardless are just as effective if not more effective at instigating arguments that movies. My argument: Also most movies are seen once, maybe twice, whereas players use video games for months if not years, and therefore will discuss and argue a game more than a movie. Also a single game like ""Halo"" instigates much more arguments than a single movie does: overpowered weapons...Play styles...Balanced Maps...Game types...Halo vs. COD.... and the list goes on. Whereas most movies can only be argued on a pair of features, like theme of discrimination, or accuracy of timeline. However some movies do instigate more meaningful arguments...but that is also based upon opinion, a typical fanboy would not find a discussion on ""The secret life of bees"" as interesting as an argument based on ""Rushing techniques"". I very much disagree with this statement: ""On the other hand video games tend to have negative impacts. They can be violent and this can have psychological impacts on the minds of young gamers. While they do come with ratings, more often than not, these ratings are ignored."" Games are just as violent as Movies. In video games we have people gunning each other down, in movies we also have people gunning each other down. The only difference is video games allow you to interact with these events. But if I delve into this subject this debate will focus on violent video games not ""Games are more successful than movies"", so I'll just leave you with that statement. Same goes for negative impacts. Now i will agree that ratings are often ignored, but how many people read the sticker on a DVD? How can you just decisively conclude that video game ratings are ignored more than movie ratings? Once again opinion, and no evidence. My Argument: The survey — by My Voucher Codes, a British Web site that offers discount codes — found: 39% of parents let kids play video games that aren't age appropriate. 53% let young children watched R-rated movies. Although this does not display 100% of the world population, the sample concludes that parents are more careless with movies than video games. I believe this is because a lot of the blame on violence is being put on video games like MW2. Mainly because video games are becoming increasingly popular and as violent as movies, whereas the latter has been around, and been violent for a much longer time. I will concede that movies can cater to more people, however this does not make them superior. 2.""Entertainment is best when it comes in a small amount""-again another opinion. ""Movies typically entertain us for 60-200 minutes. This is sufficient to refresh the mind and provide entertainment in a meaningful way."" Assuming we're talking in movie ratio. A 6 hour long movie would be horrible, but so would a 15 minute video game. The quality of the time it takes to complete a game/movie depends on the, well, game/movie. I personally find a 10-hour campaign to be better than a 6 hour campaign. Same goes for movies, but there are exceptions, some movies and games are better longer, therefore length does not determine quality. Look forward to Con's reply."	PRO	497
497	S586cd9b6-A8f3c0761	Video games are making children more violent in nature.	I will be arguing as I disagree with this statement. As a person who has played many video games from a young age, I myself have experienced what children go through these days. I would like to start off with making a point about the age rating system for electronic products such as films and video games. The game rating authority was set up in order to prevent products with a mature rating from reaching people of a younger age. This is so violent content is hidden and kept away from the eyes of the younger generation. There are laws enforcing the age rating system, in which stores are not allowed to sell video games to people younger than the age stated upon the product, otherwise they are breaking the law. So games such as Grand Theft Auto and Call of Duty which are 18 rated products, shouldn't even be in the living rooms of people younger than that age.	CON	498
498	Sfdc0898e-A91e583ba	Video Games are Art on Par with Motion Pictures.	I thank FourTrouble for accepting my debate. I hope for a quick and fun debate. And, please, call me USM. It’s easier that way. *** Art is a touchy subject. Art is considered an erudite, cultured, snobby thing. Many movies are on those lines. Just look at such recent motion pictures as The Tree of Life and Melancholia are prime examples of this. However, video games can be just as highbrowed and studious. However, most movies aren’t made by Terrence Malick, and there are a plethora of video games that are not as cultivated as such. However, I think there are three criteria that movies and video games have to meet to be considered “art.” They are: 1 They must have aesthetic appeal 2 They must tell a coherent plot 3 They must deal with philosophical issues and, with that: 1 Both Video Games and Movies have aesthetic appeal Recently, a game called Journey came out onto the PS3. It is what could be loosely described as a “platformer” that is also a meditative experience. Critics lathered over it, Entertainment Weekly calling it, “Mythic and mysterious, thrilling and terrifying, [and] built on the double foundation of smooth technical proficience and a very human heart.” [1] It’s also called, as one IGN reviewer said, “The most beautiful video game I have ever experienced.” [2] It’s a work of art, in short. And, very clearly with such works as The Tree of Life and Melancholia movies can be just as beautiful. In addition, the maker of Journey, thatgamecompany, also created Flower and Flow[3], the latter of which one reviewer basically called it only there to look pretty; so Video game beauty isn’t just a fluke (as with games such as Braid and Limbo).[5,6] Also, the Smithsonian recently held an art exhibit detailing early video games.[7] 2 Both Video Games and Movies have coherent (and good!) plots Portal 2 is a game where one makes portals (duh) in order to solve puzzles in order to advance.[8] I don’t have time to go into depth into the concept of it, but one thing’s for sure: people who call it bad, plot-wise, are out of their mind. It involves you, as the main character, breaking out of Aperture Science and the various complications that go along with it. That includes dealing with one of the best villains that you may see just about anywhere, GLaDOS.[9] The conflict between you and her (although she’s an AI, she’s definitely a she) propels the story forward. It’s a great story. While there have been many a movie where the plot has been excellent (Star Wars, Jurassic Park, Jaws), there has also been games where there are great stories to them also, not excluding Skyrim, Silent Hill, and others. 3 Both Video Games and Movies deal with philosophical issues I am going to say first thing that BioShock is a bloody first-person shooter.[10] It deals with your character, Jack, shooting people and using “plasmids,” genetic mutagens that basically give Jack superpowers, to kill people. However, BioShock is much, much deeper than that. Along the way, it deals heavily with morality. [11] Do you spare that person, because that’s moral, or do you kill them and extract their ADAM (basically, the stuff that makes up Plasmids, correct me if I’m wrong)? [12] Along with such movie classics as 2001: A Space Odyssey; BioShock, along with Shadow of the Colossus, as philosophical works. With all three criteria filled, video games must be art. But, you rebut, is Modern Warfare 3 art? And I ask you, is Battleship, the movie that is based off of THE FREAKING BOARD GAME, art? Is The Love Guru? Is Bruno? I await my opponent’s response. Sources are in the comments.	PRO	499
499	Sa4ba24f0-Ad7dcfd81	Legos are better than video games!	"Opening Arguments I would like to start out by addressing Pro's opening argument and then moving on to a few of my own. Saving Money Pro argues that Legos save money as opposed to video games due to reusability. However, Legos incur a very high start-up cost. As of 2014, ""on average, one Lego piece costs 10.4 cents."" (1) By contrast, using the Steam player average of around 75 hours and the initial release cost of $60 USD, Skyrim costs approximately $0.01 per minute. (2) Obviously this is a slight apples-to-oranges comparison, given that the items in question are different mediums. However, video games obviously come in at a very reasonable price point in comparison to Legos. Additionally, many players were able to purchase Skyrim at its current price of $19.99, or even at a discount of -75% off the current price ($4.99, putting the total value of Skyrim at around $0.06 per hour). (3) Skyrim, of course, is only one example. Fallout 3 averages over 100 hours (4), as does The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt. In addition to the initial low purchase cost of many games, massive amounts of extra content are produced for gamers at no extra charge in the form of mods. Currently, Nexus Mods hosts approximately 48,000 mods for Skyrim alone, many of which are additional quests, characters, and locations, massively expanding the world and replay value of Skyrim. Fallout 4 (released late 2015) has 12,600 mods already, while even the significantly less mod-friendly Witcher 3 has 1,400 mods. (5) This available extra content adds huge amounts of monetary and replay value to games. No such free additional content is available for Legos. Building Content Pro may argue that Legos provide for a ""sandbox"" building experience in which the player is limited only by his or her imagination. However, many video games can provide the same experience, some to an even greater extent. Minecraft is essentially a digital version of Legos. It contains brick-like blocks that can be added in any configuration to build all sorts of structures and artworks. With both a survival mode to add a gameplay element and a sandbox creative mode to allow unlimited building with all block types and mobs, Minecraft provides limitless opportunities for building and innovating. In addition, Minecraft's redstone mechanic allows for more complicated builds with moving parts, circuits, and other fun projects. Video Games Build Mental Skills According to a 2015 Business Insider article, ""Studies suggest that mainstream games like 'Call of Duty' may improve our cognitive abilities."" (6) Due to short round times, I will continue my arguments in the next round. I look forward to hearing from my opponent. Sources 1. Wired Magazine - http://www.wired.com... 2. Gamespot - http://www.gamespot.com... 3. Steam - http://store.steampowered.com... 4. Game Lengths - http://www.gamelengths.com... 5. Nexus Mods - http://www.nexusmods.com...? 6. Business Insider - http://www.businessinsider.com..."	CON	500
500	Sa5ca39dc-A24febbce	violent video games do NOT breed violence	I have researched this topic thoroughly and I wish to definitively state that violent video games do not breed violence starting with the fact the violent video games likely draw a violent crowd not create one.	PRO	501
501	S7f95546c-A173a1b15	Video games are not a significant cause of violence in children	"My last argument was an emotional argument, anything you could not understand then will probably be explained here. Sorry for that Ok I will be counter arguing this round and possibly making a few new arguments. Yes the goal in most video games is kill the enemy, destroy this, eradicate that. achieve this by ridding of this. But this debate revolves around why video games influence kids or don't influence kids to do physical harm in real life. I would never ask ""why parents do not take these away from their children?"" because it has nothing to do with the argument. although I agree its a problem that parents forget about the rating system. Ya sure kids stay indoors. That is great. So what does that prove? You know books are inside the house. Yes TV isnt really a big thing but this caters mostly to all ages between 8 and 16 but I never stated that so that is irrelevant excuse me. Continuing on most of my argument: Kids are influenced by the outside. I think most american kids go to school. And i stated there that kids influence other kids to do bad things. Also I stated that kids walk into history class and are greeted by a bloody display of human history. I am not saying we should not teach it or censor it that would be dumb, but its another form of instigating grueling violent thoughts in kids. So my argument still stands. Now on with more stuff: yes you are right video games are a popular media in this day and age. BUT does that make them the cause of most of the horrible acts relating to violence in kids? No not all. I find it funny that you say because video games are the most popular they are therefore one of the main and only reasons for violent acts and thoughts in kids. have you ever seen or heard of a miss raised child in a bad home? I have many times. Most of the violent acts and thought come from the lifestyle they were born into. Not what their hobbies are. Just some statistics found at this site(The following was copy and pasted): http://videogames.procon.org... Sales of video games have more than quadrupled from 1995-2008, while the arrest rate for juvenile murders fell 71.9% and the arrest rate for all juvenile violent crimes declined 49.3% in this same period. A causal link between violent video games and violent behavior has not been proven. Many studies suffer from design flaws and use unreliable measures of violence and aggression such as noise blast tests. Thoughts about aggression have been confused with aggressive behavior, and there is a lack of studies that follow children over long periods of time. A 2004 US Secret Service review of previous school-based attacks found that one-eighth of attackers exhibited an interest in violent video games, less than the rate of interest attackers showed in violent movies, books, and violence in their own writings. The report did not find a relationship between playing violent video games and school shootings. The small correlations that have been found between video games and violence may be explained by violent youth being drawn to violent video games. Violent games do not cause youth to be violent. Instead, youth that are predisposed to be violent seek out violent entertainment such as video games. Playing violent video games reduces violence in adolescent boys by serving as a substitute for rough and tumble play. Playing violent video games allows adolescent boys to express aggression and establish status in the peer group without causing physical harm. I copy and pasted all of those paragraphs. That should not count me off because I linked the site up top. You can also check it out here:http://videogames.procon.org... Thank you for reading my argument and happy fourth of july!!!"	PRO	502
502	Sd4bb089c-Aeaa519b5	Violent video games lead to violent behaivior	"Depending on age the answer differs. Little kids can be influenced by anything. There is a reason video games have ratings. (EC, E, E10+, T, M) CNN reports ""A new study suggests virtual violence in these games may make kids more aggressive in real life."" Violent Video Games can influence people to be violent."	PRO	503
503	S3e67d226-A291acd55	Video games are not a significant factor in mass shootings.	Ave! Resolution: Video games are not a significant factor in mass shootings. Video games: any video game, specifically violent ones. Mass shooting: a shooting where a gunman kills many people in a public place. Think Aurora, Newtown, Columbine, etc. BOP: I have to argue against the resolution. Con just has to negate my arguments. Vale!	PRO	504
504	S2b189cdf-A316471ad	there should be less violence in video games	the more life like a game is the better understanding people get from playing video of real life scenario. Any way there is violence in the news about a murder or a extremist group and movies so that doesn't mean games have to suffer people find these games fun so why ruin it for them. All games have violence any way. Mario you kill a goomba but because there is no blood it does not count as violence put a little bit of blood in and it is bad. But it doesn't matter what game you play they all have violence in them If you think they are too violent do not play them you do not need to complain. Also games are meant to be fun and enjoyable so if people like me enjoy fps games then i enjoy them if you do not like them then play another game. people have opinons and you should allow them to make there own decisions not try and stop them playing there favorite game. Also games like the new battle field are educational they have a story mode about WW1 as the game is set in early 20th century. All forms of media whether it is a game, movie news all relate to violence in one way. The reason there is violence is because before there was violence and weren't games in the past and there were more wars.	CON	505
505	See0927f6-A4856e153	video games are bad for not only children, but all humans	While I disagree that videogames cause violence and increase aggression, the main point about video games is that it is one of the greatest addictions known to man, after alcohol and smoke. Video games increase laziness, damage eyes due to prolonged usage and are detrimental for anyone's career.	PRO	506
506	Sa1ac5625-A4d05e420	Do Video Games Create Violence (Genius Hour)	Video games do not cause children or any players to be violent, this is a myth. There are tons of studies that argue the case that video games are detrimental to our society but these studies only see and argue for one side of the spectrum.	CON	507
507	S1ff4635e-A7dd92368	Ban on sale of violent video games to minors	There have been no scientific studies which have been able to prove a link between violent video games and teen violence. Therefore,with the lack of any credible evidence, the government should not prohibit the sale of violent video games to minors. Games which depict war and violence should not be restricted from being sold to teens based on that criteria alone. Once again, with the lack of conclusive science there is no way to prove a connection between these games and violent acts. Thus there is no evidence to support legislation onmthis issue.	CON	508
508	S874a4709-Aeb66ecab	Video Games Are the best and can help you learn	I LOVE VIDEO GAMES. Video games can increase your hand eye coordination, and it can make you have better reflexes. If you play a video game console like I do than you will realize that after a week you have better reflexes, TRY IT	PRO	509
509	Se9b44971-A49ad0b2f	Are Video Games really bad for people? 2	"This debate is between Zebracakes and I, about whether video games are bad for people or not. The previous debate, I took the position of Con: For this one, I will take the position of Pro. Round 1: stating our Opinions. Round 2: Proving our side of the debate. I believe that video games can be be a very bad influence on people. For example, we have games like ""Hate"". Games also burn time that can be used for other, better purposes like exercise or schooling."	PRO	510
510	Se9b44971-Ac24b8817	Are Video Games really bad for people? 2	First of all, I'd like to thank raskuseal for making another debate so that I can debate them. It was very kind of you to take me into consideration. Video games can benefit people in various ways, and therefore, are not bad for all people. Video games can include exercise, like on the Nintendo Wii, and can actually help people in school if they are educational games. Different games can help in different classes. Again, I'd like to thank raskuseal for creating this debate.	CON	511
511	Sfdc0898e-A79876c6	Video Games are Art on Par with Motion Pictures.	"According to Pro, films and video games have to meet three criteria to be considred ""art"": aesthetic appeal, a coherent plot, and philosophical depth. Pro's case 1. The game Journey may be beautiful according to some people, but I doubt artists would find it beautiful, or art historians, or art scholars. When Pro claims it is ""as beautiful"" as Malick's The Tree of Life, Pro is making an extraordinary claim requiring extraordinary proof. A quick look at revies of Malick's film shows that it is considered by artists, art critics, art historians, curators, public intellectuals, in short, anyone qualified to make the claim that it is art. Who says Journey is beautiful (no claim of it being art yet)? Pro cites Entertainment Weekly, IGN, and various video game companies. But that is hardly a sign of beauty, as these sources are not authorities on the matter. In fact, these sources are entertainment sources, suggesting Journey is entertainment, not art. Beautiful entertainment, but entertainment nonetheless. Pro claims the Smithsonian held an exhibit on early video games. This tells us that, as a historical phenomenon, video games are art. As a historical fact, many things are considered art that ordinarily are not considered art. You can go to museums and plausibly find the Throne chair of some medieval king. Is that chair art? You can rest assured it was never intended to be art. Hence the question: are video games art in and of themselves? Pro provides no evidence as such. Moreover, Pro provides no reason to think beauty is necessary. For example, atonal music is considered modernist art, but atonal music is clearly not ""beautiful."" Saying video games are beautiful does not mean they are art. 2. Coherence is a not a factor in determining whether something is a work of art or not. Many of the greatest works of art, including literary, filmic, visual, and musical, are not coherent or representational. In other words, they don't tell a story, they don't represent or mirror reality in any way. Jackson Pollock's paintings are fully abstract. Examples of art films without a coherent plot include David Lynch's Inland Empire or Godard's Weekend. Many of the greatest films are non-linear, telling a story without spatial or temporal coherence. There are more radical examples, such as the films of Stan Brakhage, that eschew narrative altogether. 3. I agree that Bioshock is one of the truly great games ever made, but does this mean it is on par with Fellini's 8 1/2 or Godard's Breathless as art? Well, the game offers various moral decisions, which force the player to undergo various moral reflections. But does this make the game art? Vladimir Nabokov, the writer of Lolita, one of the greatest aesthetic works of fiction in the 20th century, stated that art is about pure aesthetic sensation, not moral reflection or philosophical pedagogy. Gilles Deleuze, french philosopher, wrote a book called ""Logic of Sensation"" in which he argues that art is affective or aesthetically conceptual, but not moral or philosophical. What is art? Kant argues that the aesthetic faculties are set in motion when confronted with beauty, say that of a flower. He called the motion of the falcuties ""free play,"" and it was a persistent free play that Kant relates with the aesthetic. Per Pro's definition in Round 1, art is two things: the expression or communication of emotions/ideas, and the reader's aesthetic reception. There is a theory (reader-response theory) that says the meaning of all art lies in the viewer, because without the viewer, the art does not in actuality manifest itself phenomenlogically. In the case of a game, the game does not exist without the gamer assuming the guise of a player-character. The player-character is the player's fictional proxy in the world of the game, allowing them to perceive facts and to perform actions in the game-world. Games require players interact with the world itself. Whereas art can be the passive reception of affect or concept, games require players to interact actively. This is a good thing, because it makes games what they are: fun. But it makes games less artistic, in that it requires the viewer to engage it before the game can affect the viewer. It requires commitment, which is not required by art. Art allows indifference as an aesthetic response, games do not. What are video games? According to recent scholarship, games are formal systems of rules and objectives set within a framework of behavioral norms. Gameplay is determined by specific rules, objectives, and norms, which are, in the best games, brought together in a formal interactive fiction. Bioshock is an excellent example of a game, offering space for players to move and kill mutants with weapons. The objective is to kill Andrew Ryan and escape Rapture. The gameplay involves competition with a number of computer controlled opponents. If all the fictive elements are stripped away, the game would not be a game. Likewise, if all the gameplay mechanics were stripped away, it would also not be a game. So the key factors in a game are the interactive fiction, and the formal system of rules. Video games are not art Why are video games, as a medium, not art? Because art has nothing to do with formal systems of rules and objectives or with a framework for interactive fiction. Do you know what a formal system of rules, objectives, and interactive fiction sounds like? Two things: langauge and life. There is a long history of art, tracing its relation to life, going all the way back to Plato. Plato censors art from the ideal city because art is one step removed from life, and therefore, two steps removed from truth. Consider: video games offer a formal system which can be populated by aesthetic objects, but populating a formal system with aesthetic objects does not automatically make it art. For example, consider a film about Picasso, and the film is filled with representations of Picasso's artworks. The film captures in one scene Picass's Guernica, a work of art shown in museums Does this automatically make the film art? No. Representing art objects within a formal system does not make something art. This brings me to my next point: Is a language art? Video games are like a langauge, providing a logical system in which players can move around and do things. People can create art with langauge, but language itself is not a work of art. Poets create art with words, but language, their medium of communication, is just that, a medium of communication. Video games, as an interactive formal system, is a medium that provides the possibility of creating art. Video games are a medium of communication. This means video games do not actually communicate or express anything themselves. They provide a framework, a formal system, in which players can express or communicate things. But the game itself? Does it communicate anything? Consider Chess. No one would consider Chess, as a game itself, a work of art. But players who play amazing chess games, and create incredibly aesthetic tactical and strategic combinations and moves, are considered artful. Hence, I want to emphasize the distinction in games between the game itself, Bioshock, and the way players play the game: the player's use of the game as a formal system. It is possible that a player use a game artfully to create an artful trajectory through the game, but the game itself is not generally considered a work of art. Video games and films Does the existence of games like Bioshock, aesthetic and philosophical in content, make some games art? This would amount to the following argument: because games have aesthetic fictions (which is to say, they contain aesthetic objects) they are art. No, as my example of a film populated with aesthetic objects already showed, representing aesthetic objects does not make something art. Hence, just because games have aesthetic features, beautiful environments, or interesting moral or philosophical concepts, does not make the game art. Out of time..."	CON	512
512	Se170e8b7-A5514626b	video games really cause bad behaviour in children	Video games really cause bad behaviour in children. It does not matter if they are in the age groups of 2 to 6 or 7 to 11. In different ways and in different video games, it influences children and others different ways. It depends on the genre of video game this is. If the game has violence then this will not teach children much or teach them nothing at all.	PRO	513
513	S1ff4635e-Acadc95df	Ban on sale of violent video games to minors	"I thank my opponent for accepting the debate as well as the rules associated with the debate. Violence is a re-occurring theme in our news. In response to these news, we often judge these teens without trying to find the origin of many attacks. Today, lets look at a major cause of teen violence as well as an irresponsible act performed by game stores or sellers of these games. I offer the following definition: Violent video games-""game that includes video gameï¿½graphic violence, sex and sexism, violent and gory scenes, partial or full nudity, portrayal ofï¿½criminal behavior, racism, and other provocative and objectionable material.""-->http://en.wikipedia.org... --> Often these games are rated M for mature and A for adults only. Contention one: Teens Emulate violence in games. Like their parents and there peers, teens as well as children of all ages often emulate video game activities. Within this game that they play, there avatar ids often seen doing stunts that would be considered impossible in real life. These kids in an effort to reenact these stunts as well as to prove to there peers that it can be done, often go ahead and replicate the stunts they see in the games. In the case of teenagers, these whom there minds are almost too easily controlled or manipulated often do things that passes jumping out of a building top, or even wrestling one another, what they are interested in is how to kill and dispose of a human body without detection. Some teenage then become an unstable hazard as they could easily demonstrate what they learned in there games when angered. Paul boxer wrote in a July-1st 2011 article that ""A few years ago, on Long Island, six teenagers were arrested after a crime spree involving break-ins, a violent mugging and a carjacking attempt. According to what the teens told authorities, they had been trying to live out the life of Niko Belic. Ever heard of him? He is the protagonist in the wildly popular video game 'Grand Theft Auto IV."" http://blog.nj.com... Contention Two: Youth who play these games exhibits an increase aggression It is one thing for violent video game players to replicate the stunts seen on screen, but we find that these kids also exhibit aggressive behavior especially towards there family members. They are not only short tempered , but find it reasonable that if the characters of a video game is able to solve his or her problem with violence, then they can also resolve all there problems with violence. Violence often displayed at schools, at home as well as towards there peers. These random act of violence can also lead to long-term problems. Lets look at a linked graph: Play video game----->Aggression---->Violence---->lost of friends---->depression----> anger---->suicide! ""In experimental studies, children who view violent television shows or films — or who play violent video games — are significantly more likely to behave aggressively in comparison to children who view nonviolent television shows or films, or who play nonviolent video games. In long-term studies, individuals who consume violent media during childhood end up more aggressive as adults, in comparison with peers who consume nonviolent media during childhood. The studies that have produced such findings now number in the hundreds. The effects have been seen in children from urban areas, as well as suburban and rural areas; in the United States, as well as many other Western and non-Western nations."" http://futureofchildren.org... conclusion: Sadly, I have not much time to conclude the debate however, giving the substantial reasoning, it is quite clear that a ban should be placed on the sale of violent games to minors. Thank you and I await your response."	PRO	514
514	Sfa0d150d-A75c251e1	Video Games are more successful than Movies.	When we say more successful, it raises the question-at what? It could mean 1. At providing economic returns to the maker. 2. At providing entertainment 3.Providing value to the society Ill address 1. in round two because it will need a more comprehensive argument and it will be a rebuttal of my opponent’s argument. Let us look at 3. A movie/video game can provide value to the society by- 1. Encouraging discussions. Movies, unlike video games have been successful time and again in provoking debates in the society. Movies can be motivational and provide hope to those who may need it. E.g.: The Pursuit of Happyness On the other hand video games tend to have negative impacts. They can be violent and this can have psychological impacts on the minds of young gamers. While they do come with ratings, more often than not, these ratings are ignored. Playing video games can also result in addiction. I have personally been affected by this and I know what kind of impact it has on one’s life. We become distracted, we get into fights when we are not allowed to play etc. Playing video games can thus have a negative impact on our real lives. Movies employ people from various walks of life and thus provide value to various parts of the society. Movies cater to a wider audience. They can reach out to more people. The audience for video games is comparatively small. 2. There can be many ways to judge the entertainment value of a movie/video game. We can look at the value for money ratio. Now even though this is subjective, I believe that movies provide greater entertainment. Entertainment is best when it comes in a small amount. Movies typically entertain us for 60-200 minutes. This is sufficient to refresh the mind and provide entertainment in a meaningful way.	CON	515
515	S3466ccde-A1295fcd4	Video Games cause violence	Hello thanks for the response The Penn and Teller wasn't a full part of evidence just something intriguing about both sides. In your statement if exposure to violence leads to increased aggresiveness as your new point you asked why is media exposure any different. Well here is how. 1: The brain is able to tell the difference between shooting a friend or cluster of pixels on screen when compared to shooting an actual person 2: If this was true I would think that if GTA V sold a couple million sales (Broke 5-6 sales records) we would see a lot of aggresive people from what I see this isn't the case 3: Some violent video games are social experiences and don't cause rage such as Borderlands 2. This game is no doubt violent but this relates to my first point. Most violent video games are so un-realistic that people see the difference. For example if I play Call of Duty (Popular FPS don't hate me) most people know its un-realistic. If you see a guy getting shot in Call of Duty it will be less traumatic then watching someone get shot in real life. Let me give another example. Let's say that you watch a friend run over in GTA you will most likely not be traumitised forever. However if we apply this to real life most people would be in shock or traumitised.	CON	516
516	Saa60f638-Ac579f637	Video Games Are Harmful to Kids	"Well i might as well just post what else I had prepared since I already wrote it. Now on to the point about the rise in obesity, undoubtedly there is a strong link between video games and the rise in childhood obesity. I cannot argue against this but I can point out that this is only a contributing factor and not solely to blame. Young kids look up to adult figures such as their parents when it comes to simple choices. If a kid""s parents are fat then they will see this and think that it is ok to just continuously eat. This is not ok because it may present them with health problems further down the road. I personally can vouch that this actually happens. My aunt and uncle are well over the healthy weight limit and their actions of continuously eating unhealthy are rubbing off on their kids. When my cousins were young they were skinny but I have seen them change over the years. They are heavier then the healthy zone for their age and it puts them in danger of health problems in the future. Another factor for the rise in obesity is that as Americans we will eat fast food at least once a week and this is an unhealthy habit filled with transfats and grease. ""In the United States, where health officials have termed obesity an epidemic, more than 50 percent of the adult population could be obese by 2030 if current trends continue, a team from Columbia University and Harvard University wrote in a separate paper in the series."" (Talea Miller) This study shows that fifty percent of Americans will be overweight in 2030. This statistic cannot be just for people playing video games. This comes from more sever factors. Such as the fact that we are a docile nation and do not need to fight for our food. We don""t need to hunt so we have become lazy and relaxed. Sources http://www.psychologytoday.com... http://www.pbs.org..."	CON	517
517	Sd94ca2d5-A250ef189	The content of Video Games	You seem to be saying that in war-torn places, kids are exposed to real-life violence and such exposure is linked to real-life teen violence; but in places where there are no wars and where kids have access to electronics and the Internet, teens who play violent video games will limit the violence to the virtual world and will not transpose their participation in violent acts from the virtual to the real world. In other words, as far as violence goes, you think there is a partition of the virtual and the real worlds. There are no crossovers. From a logic standpoint, to prove you wrong, all I need to do is to cite one example of crossover. Such an example is not hard to find: e.g. the Columbine High School Massacre that took place in 1999. In this event, 2 teenagers, after a long period of planning, finally walked through the school hallways one day and killed over a dozen schoolmates before killing themselves. They were known to be gamers and, in the afternoons, they used to played the game DOOM, a first person shooter game that not only pioneered immersive 3D graphics and networked multiplayer gaming but also engaged in graphic and interactive violence. The two killers did not come from broken homes. They experienced a normal amount of bullying, both receiving and providing. The only constant source of mental images of violence came from the virtual world of DOOM. Eventually, through mutual encouragement and collaboration, they decided to put in action a violent way to die for themselves and for some of their schoolmates. They crossed over. I am not saying all gamers will cross over. I am saying we can not afford to have even a single person crossed over because of the potential devastation. When we experienced an event such as Columbine's, we drew the conclusion that violent video games do contribute to teen violence in real life.	PRO	518
518	Sfc941f94-Ae715b174	why video games are good for you.	my resons why video games are good for you. 1. They reduce cravings. We all have cravings. Ice cream. Alcohol. Crack… Fortunately, UK scientists have found a new way to reduce these cravings through the fun means of playing video games. 2. They slow the aging process. Don’t want to become a crazy old cat lady in your old age? A study conducted by the University of Iowa found that regularly playing a video game specifically designed by the team stalled the natural decline of cognitive skills by up to seven years for some participants. 3. Reduce pain. The pharmaceutical companies may blow a fuse when they hear this one, but psychologists at the American Pain Society’s annual meeting reported that chronically ill patients who immerse themselves in the virtual reality of video games report reduced levels of anxiety and pain. 4. Improves eye sight. In 2009, scientists from the University of Rochester compared the vision of expert action gamers playing shooting titles like Call of Duty compared to less experienced action gamers playing The Sims 2. Those playing the first person shooters found that their ability to distinguish subtle changes in the brightness of an image had improved a skill the researchers relate to tasks like driving at night. 5. Treats depression. Researchers from New Zealand have created their own video game which is designed to treat depressed teenagers as an alternative to conventional counselling. The acronym SPARX stands for ‘smart, positive, active, realistic and x-factor thoughts’, strategies which have been previously proven to help fight depression. The game itself involves creating an avatar who explores a fantasy world with the aim of removing ‘gloomy, negative automatic thoughts’ in an effort to restore order to the land. Each level incorporates facts about depression and strategies that can be used to help deal with negative thoughts within the game play. 6. Improves education in kids. In the last few years, one game in particular has dominated the industry in a way never seen before, drawing players into worlds of their own design for literally hours on end. Minecraft has sold millions of copies and its success shows no sign of slowing down, but for those of you who are worried about fans spending hours watching Youtube videos of others playing the game, research has demonstrated that the educational benefits of Minecraft are almost limitless in scope.	PRO	519
519	S30a5cf73-Aceb4b38b	Video Games do not increase or perpetuate juvenile violence	"First, according to uslegal.com, juvenile courts only cover persons under the age of 18, so we have to go off that age. The American Psychological Association states on June 7, 2010, that the only children who showed aggression after exposure to violent video games already displayed aggressive characteristics beforehand. This evidence indicates that video games do not increase violence, as stated in the resolution, as people who have violent characteristics in the first place are drawn to it. Therefore, per the resolution, we see that video games do not increase violence, nor perpetuate it. Regarding his 60 minutes evidence, this goes along with the above contention, that people with violent characteristics go the video games in the first place. The evidence says, ""who had played Grand Theft Auto day and night for months."" That quote alone shows the kind of mental state this person was in beforehand. Once again, this evidence is pointing to the Pro side, that video games do not increase or perpetuate violence. Regarding his desensitization of violence argument, Richard Rhodes of Rolling Stone found several flaws methodologically with over 200 studies regarding violent video games, and came to the conclusion that ""The research no more supports the consensus on media violence than it supported the conclusions of the eugenics consensus eighty years ago that there are superior and inferior 'races,' with White Northern Europeans at the top."" The studies that my opponent has been bringing up always mention some form of correlation between video games and violence, however, correlation does not necessary mean causation. According to british psychologist Guy Cumberbatch, ""Finding that people who enjoy violent media may also be aggressive is tantamount to observing that those who play football also enjoy watching it on television. 'The correlational nature of this study means that causal statements are risky at best,' the authors admit. ...All in all, new evidence is exceptionally weak, and in its one-sided approach it has a depressingly familiar ring to it. ...Studies to date have been notably biased towards seeking evidence of harm. This 'blame game' may be fun for some researchers to play, and knee-jerk reactions such as the APA's press release may be media-friendly. But we deserve better."" All in all, there is no link between correlation and causation. For the reasons I stated in opening, and the fact that there is no link between correlation and causation, I urge Pro vote."	PRO	520
520	S6fcc7b94-Ad29e4f08	Video games lack actual skill.	"I accept this debate, and my first point is that while some gamers have ""mad skills"", I have no skills at video games. If you say that pressing buttons requires no skill, that means I would be as good as these people with ""mad skills""."	CON	521
521	Sc827393f-A4b35fb6e	violent video games should be banned	1. it desensitizes kids' sense of life and others lives 2. it is a direct insult to all men who serve in the army because as the person in the army are fighting in the army to serve their country and you are sitting on your couch laughing when someone dies 3. it leads a path to getting a gun to kill people and show off to friends 4. violent video games ratings have gone up, and so have shootings and gun related killings 5. violent games can only do bad and cant do good so what is the point of them	PRO	522
522	S46642c87-A3ea484c3	Violent video games desensitize individuals to real violence	I concur with you argument that humans can contextualize violence am not suggesting that there is a direct correlation between violence and video games. This debate is based solely on the proposition that violent video games desensitize individuals to real violence. First, for my counterargument, I would like to define what it means to desensitize. dictionary.com 1.to lessen the sensitiveness of, or to reduce responses to external conditions or stimulation. Now, alluding to my first arguments, after playing the violent video games, the subjects had less of a response to the violent episodes. Therefore, they were desensitized. It has been proven that people adapt after increased exposure to stimuli and become desensitized to it, so no matter what you can't argue that violent video games do no desensitize individuals to violence at all. The evidence supporting both your and my side is lacking, so there is no ways to say with a high degree of certitude that they do or do not have long term desensitization effects, however that is not what the proposition states. One reason I go on debate.org is to see the opposite sides of issues. Thank you for providing such great information! Now I have a different perspective. I hope I didn't waste your time. I'm probably going to lose, but we'll see what the voters decide. X) -Paramountdesktop	PRO	523
523	S8db68a9b-A193724d4	Video games encourage violent behavior	Many people say that video games are making children violent people, (https://www-inst.cs.berkeley.edu...), however, I completely disagree. I will be giving arguments in future rounds. I look forward to future arguments and seeing how this will come out.	CON	524
524	S6f8c5872-Af24c97bf	Video games are a better source of entertainment than movies	"You can use x to jump, Square to reload, Triangle to change weapon, R1 to fire, R2 to use a grenade, L1 to aim, L2 to use secondary throw-able item. You sound like you have a PS4 you should add me on there what are your favorite video games? Do you play fortnite Subjective and also you can get tired of watching the movie the second time if you are watching a bad movie. What does subjective mean and it it's a bad movie you wouldn't watch it a second time you would rewatch a movie if it is a good movie. You stated time as in favour of my side. By you mentioning ""all day"" you are already conceding that you can spend more time on video games. That wasnt meant to help your side. When I said all day I meant it as hypothetical. ""Better going to the movies than playing a game all day"" I'm speaking in general not speaking on myself You can also replay video games and catch things that you have missed. can't argue with that one I can say it is better to play video games and since there are only two people debating it would end with a draw. Well ok then we'll see the voters decisions"	CON	525
525	Scd07580a-A189866f3	Video games effect kids behavior	Kids are mimicking tv characters behavior and are play fighting and other things. In addition kids are playing video games like Black OPs and Modern Warfare which gives them access to firearms NOT GOOD	PRO	526
526	S5afbee5a-A3bd76f8a	The world would be better off without video games.	"In this world humanity is starting to stagnate, as we move away from trying to make our world work for us, and instead we have switched to a computer generated reality. I love video games, but for the sake of this argument I will be playing devils advocate. Cons: Video games have lowered birth rates and social skills in some countries. Japan is a good example of a nation over-ran by video games to the point a lot of the male populace has given up on the idea of a girlfriend and the future beyond a glass screen. All the ""benefits"" of video games, from increased intelligence and problem solving to increased reactions holds nearly no real world benefits. The problem with today's society is, it's not what you know, it's who you know and a large percentage of hiring is done without open interviews. Many socially inept people, many who are gamers (not all) rely on open interviews to demonstrate skills, however many gamers lack the social skills necessary to swing the interviewer's opinion."	PRO	527
527	Sedfa0947-Aa11ec716	Video games are not useless in today's society.	Many people believe that video games have no use for the people who play them. I do not believe this, and will debate someone who does. The first round will be for acceptance. May the best arguments win!	PRO	528
528	Se6270ff-A6979d9c3	Video Games do not Cause Violence	"I can't help but laugh at the sources you've provided me."" Please tell me why they are so facetious as to make you laugh. I do not see anything wrong with them. ""I suppose you'll brush it off, and say it was mere ""chance"" that the murderers, one of which was eight years old at the time, just happened to kill others."" Wait, the murderers just happened to kill others? This is big news to me. All sarcasm aside, many people with extreme stress do play video games to escape from the harsh realities of life and to enter a virtual word. Video games have been found to have a calming effect on gamers, even violent ones. ""Where do you think they learned how to use a gun?"" If the parents kept guns in the house, it was most likely them who taught the young child to shoot a gun. Video games don't teach you how to load, release the safety, and all the preemptive steps. ""People aren't thinking of what the game actually has in question. It's just a virtual figure. It can't hurt, right? After all, it's just a little relief from the stress of work."" Actually studies have shown that gamers can tell the difference between reality and fantasy. You can see that here: http://www.rockpapershotgun.com... (Although you might die of laughter after seeing this ""outrageous"" source) As to addiction, professional health boards have looked into this subject, but have always dropped it. If that isn't saying something... I'm not hiding behind the ""there is no solid proof"" card. It's just that you haven't presented any. Thank you for taking your time to read this, and good luck."	PRO	529
529	S30a5cf73-Af09f3737	Video Games do not increase or perpetuate juvenile violence	"So this may be short, but I am hoping to get at what voters should consider when looking at this debate. 1. Causation vs Correlation. In my opponents first argument, he stated that video games had some correlation with violent attacks, yet there is nothing that proves that video games were the CAUSE of such violent attacks. I'd like to bring up the quote from my opponent's 60 minutes evidence,"" who had played Grand Theft Auto day and night for months."" Now, we look to my American Psychological Association evidence that states that children who showed aggression after exposure to video games expressed said characteristics beforehand. My opponent's quote illustrates my point. Video Games do not increase any violence, as it does not create any new violent characteristics, as my opponent is arguing. That point is mute because we see that there is no link between correlation and causation. 2. Crime My FBI evidence states that while video game sales had quadrupled in the 13 years between 1995 and 2008, the arrest rate for juvenile murders has fallen 71.9%, while all juvenile violent crimes have declined 49.3%. The statistics clearly point to the Pro argument. This point ties together with correlation and causation, as we see that the point of causation is refuted by statistics. 3. Overall benefit My Journal of Adolescent Health evidence shows that 45% of boys stated they play video games because it helps get their anger out, and 62% stated because it helps them relax. It also allows children to explore real life situations like war and violence without true consequence. So overall, the statistics I bring up clearly show that the Pro side is right today."	PRO	530
530	S75fe7d16-A2baa2d60	Are Video Games Better Than TV	My adversary debated the wrong side of what he intended too. I will just take conduct and move this along politely since he made no arguments. He actually conceded when he said video games make life better.	PRO	531
531	S8db68a9b-A583d698	Video games encourage violent behavior	"To what extent the content of the video game doesn't make children violent, The content gives ""children"" (all players really) a way to identify and emphasize with violence. The act of playing video games alone can cause a distorted concept of reality that inhibits the mind from thinking logically and induces stress leaving the players to resort to the most basic human instinct of control-- violence. These are the premises that I will use to start my argument. Please feel free to begin the next round with a detailed exploration of your disagreement with as much or as little evidence as you need."	PRO	532
532	S739f2cb1-A9437626b	Video Games are a primary source of violence	(The words that’s in bold and in all caps means that I want you to see that and it’s crucial information. Don’t just come here and bring out this conviction that everything in all caps means yelling. Submitting into that conclusion is vacuous.) Violence and Aggression are closely akin Just because you acknowledged something to be true doesn’t really make it so. So, that comes to show that your affirmation is biased. You’re saying that just because you’re showing some sort of aggression that just means that you’re bound to go out and commit violence. I’m pretty sure you have heard of the term “hot head.” I’m pretty sure that the vast majority of these hot heads out here have not committed a single crime in their lives. My dad can sometimes be a hot head, and he has never done anything wrong. Since you claim that my source that I used is “biased”, let’s use another one. According to the Scholastic website, it says, “Violence is heterogeneous. Physical violence can be impulsive, reactive or defensive; or it can be predatory, remorseless aggression… “Aggression is NOT VIOLENCE. An aggressive person may not be violent. Aggression is a behavior characterized by verbal or physical attack, yet it may be appropriate and self-protective or destructive and violent.” (http://teacher.scholastic.com......) Also, just because I didn’t refute against a certain part of your rebuttals doesn’t mean that I’m not challenging you on it. It’s apparent that you didn’t take into consideration that I often run out of characters to type. I would also like to point out that the Bandura Ross & Ross case uses children of the age of 3 TO 6 YEARS OLD. THAT IS NOT A PROPER AGE GROUP TO USE AGAINST A COMMUNITY THAT MOSTLY CONSISTS OF AGES OF 12+. Therefore, your case is completely invalid. (http://www.simplypsychology.org...) Effects of video games on violence are psychologically proven From where? Of course, I use movies and other forms of entertainment to support my reasoning. You know why? It’s because they have the exact same entertainment value and influence aggression just like you claim video games do. Gaming is so popular; it’s basically renowned as a sport now. (http://en.wikipedia.org......). It’s also apparent that you did not read all of my arguments because I’m obviously refuting against you when I’m saying that your objection is erroneous. Anyway: According to Former FBI Profiler, Mary Ellen O’Toole, she states that “video games DO NOT cause violence.” She also says that “individuals who were already contemplating in acting out in a violent way, if they are also emerged 24/7 in violent videos to the exclusion of other activities; and they’re isolated and they’re actually using these videos as planning or collateral evidence in terms of how to do it better, what equipment to buy, how to select the victims, how to approach the crime scene”, etc. “If their use is educational material for the offender to do the crime better, that’s what we take into CONSIDERATION.” What she’s saying is these “researchers” and “professionals” don’t take in other factors into account. They just blatantly look at video games and don’t search for other factors like mental health, the significance or insignificance of parental guidance, his/her social environment, school/work, etc. Still quoting, “As a threat assessment and as a Former FBI Profiler, WE DO NOT SEE THESE AS THE CAUSE OF VIOLENCE. WE SEE THEM AS SOURCES OF FUELING IDEATION THAT’S ALREADY THERE.” That means that the individual who is convinced by violence didn’t submit to it because he played X, Y, and Z. He capitulated to the desire of violence on his/her accordance. I mean, what else is there for me to provide as evidence. The FBI contradicts this claim; millions of gamers all over the world discredit this claim, the SUPREME COURT points out that the research that supports the claim is “INCONSISTENT” and “FLAWED” says Chris Ferguson. Thank you Mr. Ferguson. Seriously, this fallacious claim doesn’t make any sense whatsoever. (https://www.youtube.com......) According to TomoNews US, a recent study conducted more than a month ago has displayed another factor that ignites aggression (NOT VIOLENCE). This factor has shown to be the controls of games, not the game itself. This study was conducted in the University of Oxford and the University of Rochester. They took the game Half-Life 2 and modified the entire game with the help of some programmers. They discarded the blood and gore and scrabbled the controls. Their results had shown that the players who were playing with the shooting and violence showed no aggression at all. Meanwhile, the players became easily aggressive because of the absurd controls even though there wasn’t any gore or shooting taking place at all. This relates to aggression being caused by competition. It occurs very frequently, and like I said, it’s human nature. When something doesn’t work, we get frustrated. When we’re trying to win at something, and something occurs that deters us from winning, of course, we will flip out. (https://www.youtube.com......) (http://venturebeat.com......) (https://www.youtube.com......) (Warning about the video: I’m not saying that gun laws should be blamed totally. It can be, but I really don’t care about it for right now. What everyone needs to realize is that parenting and/or mental instability is the #1 issue here.) (http://www.theesa.com......) You have also failed to glance at the similarities between these two forms of entertainment. THEY BOTH CONTAIN MATURE CONTENT SUCH AS GORE, SEX, AND PROFANTIY. THEY BOTH HAVE CONTENT RATINGS. Just because these two things have that one little difference, don’t just come out here and say, since they have a small difference, you can’t use it as a source. That ideology is absurd. The General Aggression Model has expounded the case of violence Okay, first of all, Aristotle’s theory of gravity has been proven wrong by Galileo. Second of all, just because I said it’s outdated that doesn’t mean that old principles should not be used. That just comes to show that you don’t even know what the word “outdated” means. Outdated, according to Webster, means “no longer of use or unacceptable.” (http://www.merriam-webster.com......). That means that when something is proven wrong, it is no longer of use and it’s obsolete. I will correct myself upon saying that the GAM is outdated even though I didn’t directly say it is. However, the G.A.M still doesn’t provide evidence that video games cause violent crimes. You see, according to Oxford, (Man, I love Oxford for bringing me so much evidence.) “briefly, the model shows how factors in the IMMEDIATE SITUATION (such as being insulted while in front of friends, and having just played a violent video game) combine with factors that people bring with them to the situation (such as positive attitudes towards using aggression, impulsive personality, and a habit of taking slights too personally) to produce an internal set of aggression-related thoughts and feelings that are likely to yield aggressive behavior.” That comes into showing that the aggression shown in video games is SHORT TERM like I said. (http://www.oxfordscholarship.com......) Children inevitably imitates aggression, resorting to violence without supervision Basically, what you’re saying is “Monkey see, monkey do.” Yes, children imitate things, but you still haven’t taken into account that the parent is the one responsible for teaching their child right from wrong. What do you think parents are there for? Just to sit there and watch the kids? Even though that’s what some parents do, that’s not what the duties of what the parents are held accountable for. This “study” that you used has nothing to do with video games at all. It sounds like this study was conducted by children by a very young age. You did not refute that parents are responsible for telling their children that it’s wrong to do this. It’s wrong to do that. So, what’s your point? I mean, I can’t refute everything while bring out a hundred sources at once. There’s a character limit on here you know. Crime rate interpretations by opponents of the resolution are fantasy What? I don’t get what you’re refuting against here. So, the information that I’ve clearly given that’s from the FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION and the BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS is “fantasy”? That’s just an excuse because the facts are there and it shows that the correlation between video games and violence is non-existent. If it was, then don’t you think crime rates would actually increase? But, it doesn’t. I mean, the graph you just showed me proves it. Look, the trends of video game sales and federal offenses are NEARLY PERPENDICULAR. It doesn’t make any sense whatsoever. Con's parental argument provides no guarantee This rebut is totally wrong because, according to an article at Vision.org, they say that Parental Guidance is a crucial factor in child development. Also, I have cited other sources earlier that say so. (http://www.vision.org......) Let's be mathematical here 70% of the world population are gamers. There are 7.2 billion people on Earth. So, that's 5.04 billion people. That's a lot isn't it? So, lets say there were 15 gamers were found committing violence. Okay, that just makes 0.000000003% of gamers affected by violence. Okay, let's make 100 gamers committing violence. Okay, good for you, you've discovered that 0.00000002% are affected. Don't you see that it is insufficient? How can you come in here and try to prove to me that WAY LESS THAN 1% of something is valid? How can you come in here and say that video games cause violence when it actually has declined? Trying to prove that less than 1% of something to me is like trying to prove that ants can beat humans. Don't forget that I'm not saying that video games don't cause violence at all Video games are just a small factor out of MANY others that contribute to violence. Mental state and the environment they're in contribute to violence the most.	CON	533
533	S739f2cb1-Af579696e	Video Games are a primary source of violence	"Pro has again forfeited. Like he said, all points shall be rewarded to me. In closing, video games have either such little or no influence of real-world violence. Recent studies have shown and they’ve proven that. Also, it’s just common sense. It doesn’t take a 3-year study to figure that video games, TV, or any other form of entertainment don’t cause an act of violence. The aggression/violent acts come from the person’s consent. Think about it, do video games just consciously say, “Hey, go kill blah blah blah.” Does the game stop, turn around, and the character has this little soliloquy to tell you to be violent? Of course not. The player becomes aggressive on his/her own. Plus, even when they are angry, most likely video game aggression will be short-term as in 1-15 minutes. I mean, do you seriously think that Hitler played Mass Effect or Grand Theft Auto before he went out and started the Holocaust? Did Stalin play Call of Duty before he started invading Poland and killing Russian civilians? Was Osama Bin Laden playing Mortal Kombat before he planned the 9/11 attack? I highly doubt it. Look at me, I’m 15 years old, I played M-rated games for 4 years, I started playing games since I was probably in the 1st or 2nd grade, probably longer. I’ve watched R-rated movies in my early childhood and still to this day. So, I’ve been viewing mature rated content and violence throughout my whole life basically, and I’m pretty sure millions have the same, exact case. Why aren’t we criminals? Why aren’t we desensitized, homicidal, and brutal killers yet? Why aren’t we shooting at people yet? Why aren’t we going into schools and killing innocent children yet? Where’s the chaos? Where’s the anarchy? Where is it? What’s going on? Oh, I know. Maybe because, video games don’t even cause violence in the first place; I think that’s what’s going on. The first Grand Theft Auto was made in 1997. So, GTA has been in the shelves for 17 years. So, if you were playing GTA since you were 11 years old, you’re 28 now. Why aren’t you desensitized? Like I said before, the statistic that outlaws and killers who were affiliated with gaming is not a significant epidemic. By any standard, the fact that people are trying to prove that less than one hundredth of a percentage of something is laughable. The argument is absurd. It’s preposterous. How can you possibly tell us that less than a hundredth of a percentage proves that video games causes crime and is the primary factor of violence? How can you possibly come here and tell us that video games cause crime when crime has declined over the years? It’s ludicrous. Plus, the guys who keep bringing out these fallacious claims are people who have little or no experience with video games and mental psychology. The claims are self-defeating. It’s just an excuse because everyone knows that it’s the parent’s fault for not facilitating their child's actions. My parents have told me right from wrong; at least, they told me that I can’t play Grand Theft Auto. They still don’t let me play Grand Theft Auto today. And, you know what, that’s okay. Because, at least, my father shows some idolization and cares enough that he doesn’t want me to go out and do some crazy stuff. He cares about what I do; he cares about what I'm watching. I mean, I really don't need Grand Theft Auto anyway. Crazy people do crazy things. Normal people do normal things; they know right from wrong; they know that it’s wrong to go around with a gun to kill people. The game doesn’t kill people. Guns don’t kill people. It’s the person behind the gun. Stop blaming the gun, stop blaming the video game, stop blaming to whatever he’s/she’s associated with, AND TAKE RESPONSIBILITY. That’s the problem. People don’t want to take responsibility. This thing has been going on for ages. It’s nothing new people. They don’t want to admit that the parents have done a poor job on watching their child and teaching them right from wrong. It’s these kinds of parents that think they’re angels and they’re not going to do any harm when, in fact, they’re a ticking time bomb that’s about to blow up. It’s these parents who don’t give a dime about their kids and what they do. I don’t need to post a source because all of this stuff I’m typing is all coming from pure common sense. Everyone should know this by now. It doesn’t take a genius to figure out these things. It doesn’t take an Albert Einstein, a Stephen Hawking, or an Issac Newton to know that. Look at the person who got the gun. Know about his mental status, his parents, his social environment, has he been doing well in school/work, does he have some grudge toward something, etc. Don't just look at the fact that he had Call of Duty or Battlefield on his/her shelf and stop there. That's just absurd and being lazy. That's just like investigating a drunk driver who ran over and killed a guy. The cops come out and they say, ""Well, since he had the habit of drinking, it's the alcohol's fault."" (Hehehe, actually, that reminds me of the song, ""Blame it on the Alcohol."") Anyway, that assertion is retarded in itself because the cops don't even look at the fact that the guy broke the law in the first place. It's his fault. I really don't need to go any further. I've proven that video games don't cause violence. It is nothing, but a form of entertainment. That's all it will ever be. Always has. Always will. Thanks for participating in the debate, Pro. I had lots of fun debating this topic with you."	CON	534
534	S739f2cb1-A4e3f874c	Video Games are a primary source of violence	"I accept. Thanks dishoungh, Since I'm pro, I should be the first. Let's begin Violence and Aggression are Closely Akin It is important however, not to be confused between these 2 terms. As Dishoungh did not establish any definitions whatsoever, we are left with standard definitions. When a person commits an act of violence which is defined as ""...an exertion of physical force so as to injure or abuse"" (1. http://www.merriam-webster.com...), it is an act of aggression. Aggression is defined simply as an ""intent"" to harm or to commit an act of violence(2. http://www.goodtherapy.org...#). However, aggression is merely an intention rather than an action. Violence is the action of aggression. An aggression may not be literal but in most case scenarios, Aggression will inevitably leads to Violence. The cognitive process makes them both interchangeable as both revolves across the same aspect. The intention to harm an individual will always translate into an action as the word ""intention"" applies. Further, to satisfy one's craving aggressive intention is to act on it literally, hence translating into violence. It is self explanatory between the two terms. Thus, any concept to prove aggression is a compelling case for violence. Further elaboration are given below. Effects of video games on violence are psychologically proven Surprisingly, Gamers have a huge preference for violent games, with 73% for boys and 59% for girls (Bunchman & Funk,1996) (3. http://ecap.crc.illinois.edu... ). Most of them preferred to play games that are subsequently filled with gore thereby exposing themselves to violent trends under a virtual screen. Opponents would argue that virtual screen exert no influence, but I would beg to differ. Ignoring such variables is a reductionist argument. Assessing the mind on violence requires a wide elaboration, not one that isolates variables just to justify an ideology. An empirical study was carried out by Calvert and Tan(4. http://serendip.brynmawr.edu...) of which set out to assess the influence of a virtual screen on gamers' arousal levels & their cognitive thoughts. Results shown were shocking. College students showed high levels of aggressiveness, a level of hostility and overall exhibited a hostile posture. In order to solidify this argument, they made EEG scans. As such, Empirical methods were carried out to make sure that there is no interpretive bias. EEG scans were used on the students, and results have shown that their heart rate increased drastically the moment they inhibit that hostile stance. Similarly, they also reported having dizziness and experience some form of nausea after prolonged periods of playing. Based on this study, the experiment had 2 aspects that is Psycho-metric tests and Qualitative analysis, of which are on the same boat as both proves that by playing games, Gamers inhibit a hostile stance. A case for violence nonetheless. No moral human being is going to deny these psychological studies, except those sleazy gaming journalist who are filled with nothing but bias. To assess something such as violence, one has to dig deep into Psychology. Furthermore It is logical to adopt this approach, violence is a social construct, we define what violence is according to our values, as such in order to assess this social construct made by our minds, we have to retreat back to Psychology. Besides, it is only way for the research process to be ""value-free"" away from gaming journalists' multiple layers of bias. An Overwhelming majority. This serves as both direct and indirect primary source for violence. The General Aggression Model have expounded the case for violence The GAM (Anderson & Bushman, in press, University of Missouri) [5. http://web.clark.edu...], along with its 3,033 participants along with the high concurrent validity supported by both Bunchman & Funk's experiment & Calvert and Tan's experiment, have altogether proved that video games as a primary source for violence beyond reasonable doubt. The model was intended to provide a causal correlation between violence and gaming. It assessed participants' perspectives based on their interpretation of virtual screens A simple demonstration of the GAM is given below [6. http://www.soc.iastate.edu...] The enactment or act of committing violence through video games can be determined by the cognitive processes within the participants' mind, and their interpretation of specific situations. This is known as a situational variable, because they primarily rest their judgment on a virtual screen(the environment affects their thought process). That environment is gaming. Research by Anderson & Bushman based on the GAM model shows that violent games increases aggressiveness because the environment, since it is a variable that affects participants' thought processes, teaches the observers to be aggressive by increasing arousals that effectively prime aggressive cognitions. This is evident through the scripts that observers or gamers went through a game such as racial slurs at the beginning of GTA 5, as if it was entirely acceptable in a civilised society. Once they hear this sort of slurs, they will likely follow as this case is similar to that of the GAM model. As seen above, the intention to harm,in other words, violence have a strong link. It all begins with the fact that each variable indirectly constitute aggression, therefore acting on violence as the end product. The craving intention of aggression has to be quelled somehow, and for 'somehow' to end, it has to be satisfied through violence. The evidence behind this fairly simple, yet compelling. Various studies(33 independent tests to be specific) collected over 3,033 participants as samples to ensure representativeness. 17 more tests are conducted on 1,151 participants to assess this claim, and here is the results(For relevance please see highlighted) [7. http://www.soc.iastate.edu...] The overall results shows positive correlation and the results were significant enough to prove violence to be primarily associated with gaming. For example, the correlation coefficient(r) for aggressive effect was 18 and the aggressive behavior was 19. This is a staggering high correlation. Weller puts it rather elegantly ""Indeed, this effect of violent video games on aggression is as strong as the effect of condom use on risk of HIV infection"". This model proffers a strong case for violence caused by video games. It has been empirically proven by more than 1 test. In practice, only 1 test is needed to prove that theory is true but in this case, there were immeasurable tests that justify this model. Proving this model proves that games are a primary source of violence. What, with most gamers having a large preference for violent type games, this even furthers the case 10 fold. It is beyond reasonable doubt. There is no denying this evidence presented. Children inevitably imitates aggression, resorting to violence without supervision Even Children are prone to violence. They imitate their peers, especially those high up the ladder whether it be games or their parents. Firstly, opponents would argue that imitation does not occur most of the time, that it does not serve as a necessity. Critics argue that by looking at a virtual screen playing Dead Space 3's cliffhanger ending, it is not necessarily for everyone to follow what was observed. This claim is however not true at all considering several emperical studies. Bandura,Ross and Ross conducted a study based on imitating behaviors [8. http://www.sp.uconn.edu...]. The study used a bobo doll with the use of a model as a stooge and children as participants. Around 36 boys and 36 girls were taken to see if they were to imitate aggression simply by observing the stooge. The experiment may be accused of bias, but this is needlessly unwarranted criticism, as the experiment used the participants under 2 conditions, aggressive & non-aggressive[9. http://www.holah.karoo.net...]. The participants were observing both conditions, the experiment was entirely objective. If both conditions were followed and imitated by the participants, either non-aggressive or aggressive, the results would still endorse my premise, even if 1 of the condition is not met. Results shown were not conflicting, however , as it proves that children imitated both conditions. They followed exactly what the adults(stooges) did in that experiment, in both aggressive and non-aggressive thereby endorsing the theory of imitating aggression. For example, the adults used to hit the bobo doll as the experiment commence while one of the children was observing under the 3 stages. This also included verbal aggression to stimulate that of a virtual screen, with all its prepared scripts. As it were, the children followed the aggressiveness displayed by adults. This gives even more reasons to believe that by watching a virtual screen characterized by all sorts of plots will likely be followed by our youth. Bear in mind, this includes violence as well as the children displayed the same behaviour that of the stooges(I.E hitting the bobo doll) Finally, any story projected by our video games on a screen will likely be followed by children as they imitate behaviors according to this study. They will use the script to their own interpretation and use the environment to act upon aggression, thereby constituting violence. Imitation shown by the study to be 100%, that is all the participants followed the behaviors made by the stooges. Similarly they would follow what was projected by video games. === Case closed. I will provide more arguments in the next round. Rebuttals won't be here as per our agreement. Thank you Dishoungh for instigating a fun topic."	PRO	535
535	S739f2cb1-Ae86b5203	Video Games are a primary source of violence	"Thanks Dishoungh, much gratitude for that argument. I don't see anything wrong with the text script, nothing to worry. You should type your arguments in 'text' first instead of 'rich text'. This is to ensure whatever material you type will be automatically changed to the same font. Once you finish, you may then switch to rich text to change fonts and such. Apologies for not bringing that up before. Violence and Aggression are closely akin Firstly, Con's stated that aggression does not lead to violence, that it is just a 'feeling' without an action. He sourced a website where it merely clarifies definitions without any elaboration on psychological research. The only research that blank article had was Terry and Jackson's study which I acknowledged it to be quite true. However his argument is irrelevant to Con's case as terry's study was just to prove that violence in sports is different from violence in society. At best it proves my case to be true because both are still 'violent'. In addition to that, he asserted that thinking observed thoughts does not bring about violence. I have proven it is, Bandura Ross & Ross's case is one empirical example of how thoughts bring about violence. My case has evidence, while Con's case is just a blank assertion from his opinion as a gamer. Effects of video games on violence are psychologically proven Secondly, the same weakness can be seen from Con's argument. He barely contest my case as he blankly asserts ""More people like video games isn't a means for them to be violent"". My case was that if people were to observe video games, they would have increased level of aggression and by having my first premise, 'Violence and aggression' proves this case as a primary source for violence. Con did not deny the evidence presented. There is no way around this argument because EEG scans provide a reliable indicator. If my opponent denies this, he denies dialysis machine actually curing and helping kidney failure patients. He denies that heart rate monitors hold any objective measure. So all doctors are wrong in referring to such measures. Above all else, he cross examines my case of various psychologists' studies using movies. Con included something bizarre and gibberish to the topic at hand. This argument can't come into fruition and I'll tell you exactly why. Movies are completely different from games, movies are on a train track while games are helicopters choosing its own destination. This is like comparing astrology with astronomy. Both of the subjects are inconclusive towards each other. Thus, that argument is completely irrelevant. The General Aggression Model have expounded the case for violence Starting with his criticism of GAM being outdated. His argument is extremely vague. He stated that we have to discredit scientific sources that are outside the 10 years span. If we are to accept his criticism, this means that the theory of gravity and all other scientific sources should be discredited based on 'date' alone. So..Aristotle is useless? Next, his criticism with GAM model. He dismisses this simply because it is short term. Not quite, GAM model was actually aimed at proving long term aggressiveness. The model explicitly state ""Increase in aggressive personality"" from the picture [10.http://www.soc.iastate.edu...] given. Is personality short term or long term? obviously it is long term. this is not even a viable criticism. My proof remains solid. Lastly, his succinct argument of ""Observational aggression does not necessarily translate into violence"". A coach yelling displays aggression, players rambling displays aggression. How often do guys hustle in sports? Most of the time. Violence is the act of aggression so if a coach tears and pulls his player's shirt to him, that is characterized as violence because it is an 'act'. A case for aggression is a compelling case for violence as my premise states. It is the act of it, not how one interprets the situation. Children inevitably imitates aggression, resorting to violence without supervision Children imitate what they observe, they saw adults being violent with the doll in the experiment. As soon as the adults left, all of the children in all experimental settings did the same by being violent with the dolls. Similarly they play games, GAM model states that games act as a situational variable because they are fixated in their game, just like how they fixate themselves on observing the adults. So by observing games, they will learn all sorts of behaviour and will inevitably act on it. Just like the murder of Ann Maguire, [11.http://www.theguardian.com...] was additional proof of such case. The teacher was stabbed to death by a 15 year old(Ironically a gamer) and the juvenile is set to be brought before the court. This is just supplementary, empirical studies holds more relevance. Con did not refute or criticize the study directly as he argued that the study had a different conclusion, he even concede ""Yes, children imitates aggression"" . The experiment was based on aggression and violence, not 'parental supervision'. Bear in mind, the study garnered results of which 100% of the children imitate what they observed. Thus, my argument is solid and affirmed. Crime rate interpretations by opponents of the resolution are fantasy Let's start with Fantasy.It is defined as ""something that is produced by the imagination : an idea about doing something that is far removed from normal reality""[12. http://www.merriam-webster.com... ]. This idea or interpretation are riled up based on fantasy. Opponents would have secondary statistical data in favor of defending video games. Why wouldn't they make their own statistic is clearly beyond me, since ""secondary statistical data is better to justify my opinion"". Secondary statistical data(data done by the government) are supposed to show a general trend, when a poll forecasted divorce rates, it was meant to prove divorce rates. it does not, in any way proves that family, or men or women or whatever variable to be the cause of said factor. Saying so otherwise is just imaginary or as the definition applies 'fantasy' Similarly this is the same with video games. A simple demonstration is given below Clearly, you can interpret this however you want, but I've have proven the bias of the author stating ""what link?"". Asking blatant rhetorical question is one evidence of such bias. Quantitative statistics does not provide reason for such sales or crimes, it relies on the author's interpretation of it. Gaming is a young industry, it does not encompass all of the population. When you look at a league of legends competition, viewers are relatively short, a few hundreds. This pales in comparison with Barca's Camp Nou's capacity [13.http://en.wikipedia.org...] (99,786 seats). Due to its unrepresentative nature, the evidence presented can be dismissed. Crime can be affected by a lot of factors, namely employment since obviously, its base is even bigger than gamers by 10x on my estimation. It is simplistic to isolate other variables when the statistic clearly measures general trends. So Gaming causes all that, what about sports, employment,elderly? They are to be discredited for gaming? Con's parental argument provides no guarantee Con's argument is that parents don't supervise their children. Is video games that scary that just 1 minute away from parental supervision, games causes violence?. This endorses all my arguments that video games are one of the most significant factor and serves as the biggest primary source of violence. The issue is self explanatory in that children needs parental supervision to play video games to avoid being violent. Furthermore, this endorses the premise of situational variable as described by GAM. Situational variables directly affects their personality, hence causing them to be violent. Parents supervision clearly shows how serious video games are in affecting children's minds. Con's cross examination of sports is without merit My best friend told me a football story once that a defender was extremely pissed off at him using all sorts of verbal insults just because he was dribbling & having body contact with the perpetrator. Similarly, a guy bicycle kicked just 10 cm from his face and even then, my friend was confrontational and became aggressive. Even I myself became very aggressive just by imagining how disrespectful they are of my friend. My point is to remember, violence is the act of aggression. Yes sports do have violence and so? I didn't say otherwise. The debate was not about the government or sports, they may choose to do things however they want. If both sports and video games promote violence, what does it matter? both media are still violent. There is no difference and it proves nothing of Con's build up case. Con's sources are guilty of bias often asserting with a blank cheque Gaming commentators on this issue are just...gamers. When someone threatens your way of life, destroys what you believe to be epitome of life, of course you will immediately be hostile to this idea. You lose objectivity because it involves too much of your interpretation and opinions of such events. You have first hand experience with your way of life, why would you chose those that are different. Moreover, Con provides sources that are filled with multiple layers of bias that renders the argument invalid. My Case was psychologists, they are not even politicians let alone be knowledgeable in that area. They are objective in their assessment, thus affirming the resolution.Con's case is without an objective foundation. The only reliable source was Harvard. That source was balanced in terms of its distribution of views, it emphasize both parents, media & causes. It neither proves his case to be solid because it is 'neutral'. I have an equal amount of argument there. Thus, it doesn't proves either of us."	PRO	536
536	S7f95546c-A72117419	Video games are not a significant cause of violence in children	I first have to state that I will probably bee counted off for the copy and paste thing. If you feel I should be counted off please do so voters, although this is your own action. Also for the last round (The fifth) you do not have to have an official closing, you may continue making new arguments in your respective round. although I am giving con the upper hand. On with the debate. Yes I have agreed with you on many things. In fact most of your argument is completely true and I know this from experience. I have said BoP is shared, and it is. If you feel I have not brought up enough logic on my positive claim than I will start using statistics. Monday 10 November 2014 A recent long-term study by the USA shows the violent games are not the cause for violence in society If you read this study its states that in the first of the two historical evaluations researchers studied the links between violent films and societal violence by looking at the top grossing titles between 1920 and 2005. What they deduced was that film violence went in a rough U pattern during this time period whereas societal violence decreased in the later half of the 20th century. The second study used data from ESRB to estimate the violent content of video games from the time of 1996-2011. It showed that as the popularity of violent video games went up, youth violence went down. you can read more of thisin the sited resources below. To continue on into a more depressing topic, children who commit homicide have different brain structures. This article talks all about it. Apparently researchers found that children who commit murder have lower levels of grey matter in their medial and lateral temporal lobes and the hippocampus and posterior insula, according to news release. If you are wondering what grey matter is its the stuff that helps you process information in the brain. This means the less grey matter you have the more likely you will become confused between violent video games and reality. In another article posted Wed/July23/2014 showed that harsh corporal punishment can knock grey matter levels down in children. If a person receives this, they are more likely to commit violent acts in the future. This has nothing to do with the debate at hand, but what we can deduce is that when children between ages 10-17 play a violent video game they aren't losing anything beneficial to them and therefor are not violent in the future. Again I will restate a few more points There has never been a link between violent video games and violent acts in kids and teens. The sales rate for video games has quadrupled from 1995-2008 along with a 71.9% drop in juvenile arrest rates and a 49-50% drop in juvenile crimes. Any small correlation between violent youth and violent video games may be explained: Violent games do not cause youth to be violent, instead already violent youth are attracted to violent video games. cites http://www.independent.co.uk... http://www.natureworldnews.com... http://www.news-medical.net... http://www.cnn.com... http://videogames.procon.org...	PRO	537
537	S3ca50531-A618a86e6	Video games have had an overall positive impact on society.	I affirm that the existence and introduction of video games to the world was overall a good thing. Video game - an electronic game played by means of images on a video screen and often emphasizing fast action (http://www.merriam-webster.com...) Contention 1: Video games encourage learning and activity. All video games require you to exercise your mind. Some video games, such as Wii Fit, Wii Sports, and other Wii games require physical activity. (http://en.wikipedia.org...) Many video games use math as a key component to its structure, and as such, the people who play them end up better at math than before. (http://en.wikipedia.org...) Contention 2: Video games lead to new technology. Video game companies are always looking for new technologies to give themselves a competitive edge in the gaming industry. This technology is then replicated outside of video games. Graphic cards used for video games are used to give more accurate MRI scans, X-rays, and seismic graphs. Contention 3: Video games are used for practical purposes. Many people use video games for physical therapy. (http://www.uspharmd.com...) Computer simulations are used for war training in a less costly, less deadly manner. (http://www.wired.com...) Contention 4: Video games increase dexterity for those who play them. http://blog.peterkupfer.net... http://discovermagazine.com... Video games have been proven to help surgeons be more accurate in their surgeries. http://www.upi.com... That means that less people have died of surgical errors because of video games. Try telling the people who would otherwise be dead that video games have had a bad impact on society. Contention 5: Video games create jobs. http://www.nintendo.com... Contention 6: Video games provide entertainment. http://www.gamefaqs.com... Thank you to whoever accepts this debate.	PRO	538
538	S19e9442f-Ae3648389	"This house believes ""Video Games Be Considered a Sport"""	"I am not going to argue that physical activity solely defines a sport, but I will argue that it is an important part. Also, I will agree with you that chess is a sport, since the International Olympic Committee (IOC) considers it one. [1] This does not mean I will agree with whatever the IOC says, just that I respect their opinion on sports since they manage one of the largest sporting events in the world. First, video games do require ""fast reaction times, muscle memory, and excessive movement."" However, I think the excessive movement only applies to augmented or virtual reality. There is not much excessive movement in clicking a mouse or pushing buttons while one is sitting down. However, video games and virtual reality are just that, virtual. No matter what you say there is a code or pattern that determines everything, and that code can be figured out and manipulated. In sport played in reality, there is an element of unpredictability. You may have some idea of what could happen next, but it is almost impossible to predict exactly. If conventional sports were turned into games then they would lose that aspect of them. Although some gamers may enjoy working out or being in decent physical shape, they do not get 'Sustained physical exercise, whether it be running or swimming or cycling or other aerobic activity, has well-known health benefits, including improvements in the function of the cardiovascular, pulmonary, and endocrine systems""[2] directly from their involvement in video games. Even if they do, for example if someone is walking around every day playing Pokemon Go, they are still involved in a virtual world that can be controlled and manipulated. Also, ""Video games are short-circuiting our reward system that we rely on for feedback on what we are doing,"" said Elan Barenholtz, professor of psychology at FAU. ""Video games, I believe, make a much more consistent reinforcement that is kind of unnatural, and in a sense addictive. [They have] incremental accomplishments, rewards. All things we love.""[3] If video games could this easily become an addiction, then their the negative health side effects would outweigh the positive ones. Popularity should not be a determinate whether something should be considered a sport or not. There are many popular things that have little or no talent. For example, Kim Kardashian and Danielle Bregoli, the ""cash me outside"" girl. [1] http://londonchessconference.com... [2] https://www.psychologytoday.com... [3] http://www.upressonline.com..."	CON	539
539	S63308ee0-A9a45ceb3	Violent video games make children violent	"School shootings. While there has never been any links from violent video games to school shootings there are some patterns that cannot be ignored. Before 1975 there were 139 recorded school shootings the first of which was in 1764 (the second was in 1853). I picked this year because it was the official release of ""Death Race"". Some background before I continue. ""Death Race"" is considered the arcade game that sparked the first controversy over video game violence. The game consisted of up to two players controlling cars with the objective being to run over ""gremlins"" (who resembled humans very closely) in order to earn points. The public response was outrage. NBC as well as CBS's 60 minutes reported on the violent effect it could have on teens as well as The National Enquirer and Midnight magazines. There are even reports of angry mobs dragging the arcade game out of stores and lighting them on fire. Since 1975 there have been 199 reported school shootings. Keep in mind that both of these figures count both accidents and single suicides (i did not have the time to sort those all out). This seems to be ample proof that there has been a significant growth in school shootings. While there is no proof that connects school shootings to violent video games it cannot be ruled out. 2. Level of violence. I completely accept your provided definition of the word itself from Webster however the context you later employ I do not. You ask why there has not been an increase in the number of armed robberies. I argue that video games do and have caused a rise in violence in the real world but not quite to that extent. I highly doubt that any grand theft auto video game has caused any significant rise in actual car thefts but that doesn't mean that these types of games hasn't contributed to increases of violence at a much lesser level. I have seen first hand the anger and frustration that is created by an extremely difficult level on some video game and have also seen that taken out in physical violence. 3. The ESRB The ESRB was created in 1994 in order to regulate the age at which children were allowed to play certain types of games. I'm not talking about any type of pornography or language but the violence section. Why would a federally funded and controlled program worry about the AGE of which certain children can play violent games? Because they fear that the children could be affected by the violence and are not yet ready for the games. That is the conclusion of my first rebuttal. I also can't wait to see yours. http://en.wikipedia.org... http://controversy.wikia.com..."	PRO	540
540	S498856cd-A784474e0	Video Games can Change you Life for the Better	well Said, Con has made some interesting Points about Games soaking up your social time and making you not as physically fit as you could be. However I will proceed with my further argument why Games can change your life for the better. For one it should be noted, that as I stated in the beginning that were will be times people will use video games as a means to destroy their lives, lack of social activity for playing games 20 hours straight or using something they saw in a game to hurt someone, or seeing something in the game like a cool physical activity that seems doable but in reality its not and trying to mimic it and hurting yourself physically. All of these things I acknowledge. However people who use video games for the behaviors that I mentioned above it essentially has nothing to do with video games itself and more so a lack of priority setting for themself and personal mental fortitude and self discipline. Games have evolved since 10 years ago even 5 years even 2years ago. There is so many things you can do now. You can socialize with people all across the work with xbox live and the PlayStation network/Community and talk about similar interests, for people who are shy that could be a tool for them to break out of their shell. Games can bring together families couples and friends with interactive games. Also there are education games to stimulate the brain. Also there are games that can teach you the proper way to work out that works in the real world because the game was designed with personal trainers working with the programmers and game developers	PRO	541
541	S2b189cc0-Aef75a4da	there should be less violence in video games	"First, my arguments 1:Gaming as a medium of art Modern gaming has a tendancy of pandering towards a teenage audience: using violence and sex to win over the audience they want (see counterarguments). The problem with this is that it prevents people from taking gaming seriously. No one wants to accept gaming as an art form, no one believes that games can convey emotion or messages, and no one believes that ""mature"", in reference to video games, can mean anything other than a rating. I am saying this as a teenage male gamer: games should stop trying to put people like me into a box 2:Coming under fire You've heard the argument before: ""violent videogames ruin the children"", ""videogames turn people into mass murderers"", ""videogames killed my children"", etc. It will never go away unless we bite the bullet and stop pushing violence. I personally want people to start taking games seriously, as priorly mentioned, but I don't want them percieved as a threat. I can only assume you feel the same way Counterarguments I think there should be more because people like them more then nonviolent games. A lot of people like Zelda, call of duty, anime and a lot more then nonviolent games. I would ask for sources, but let's be real here, neither of us are using sources; most of the things mentioned on both sides, I would think, can be accepted by both sides as fact; as gamers, we both understand these ideas to be true. I have tried to keep numbers out of my own argument to avoid causing too much confusion. Instead, I will ask why that is: why do people tend to like violent games as opposed to nonviolent ones? One of the issues is the AAA games (like Assassin's Creed or Call of Duty) vs. indie games (like minecraft and Don't Starve). AAA is sponsored by heavy budget studios with heavy wallets and large numbers. Indie games are created by ""independent developers"", which can be stretched, but for all practical purposes just means a small team of friends who just thought it would be fun to create a video game. Because AAA games have larger budgets, they can push their games with advertising campaigns. However, they also don't have much area for originality; because they spend so much money on each project, they can't afford to get a failed project, so they just rehash an old formula: buff guys shooting guns at other buff guys. Indie games usually go with violence as well, to mirror their AAA counterparts. The issues isn't that nonviolent games aren't as good, but that they aren't as well known. What about when they are well done? Undertale, an indie game written by Toby Fox, was prided for its emphasis on nonviolence and the ability to talk with the opponents without taking their lives. Mirror's edge, while still more or less AAA (even with less marketing), did not focus on violence, but on parkour and freerunning Quick Clarification: I do not mean that violence should be taken out, just taken down a bit. Violence should be used when it makes sense, but not as much as it is now. The horse is dead, you can put down your baseball bats."	PRO	542
542	S271b8702-Ac49163a3	Video Games do not Make Kids Violent	However children are addicted to games but not to people. That is at subconcious level and they are not able to realize all significance. Whaterver we argue about the fact remains that more and more children are affected by video games and involved in this act. According to the statistics approximately 9% of 3034 children were identified as pathological gamblers by scientists. The number is not so high but as study shows they play on average 30 hours per week. That is more than 4 hours per day and it is enough for being greatly influenced by video games and spoil child's mind also saying nothing about other harm for eyesight.	CON	543
543	Sc63486e9-A5e422f79	Do video games really cause bad behaviour to children	"My opponent, in his opening statement, said that ""Video games can't really put bad behavior into the lives of the kids of today"". I, therefore, will argue the opposite, that video games can cause bad behavior in the lives of today's children. As my opponent provided no definitions, I will do so now. I define a ""video game"" as an electronic game played by means of images on a video screen and often emphasizing fast action[1]. A ""kid"" or ""child"" is defined as anyone under the age of 18. Rated Games My opponent begins by explaining that while some video games can cause nightmares, attempts at killing, or serious harm to self, these video games are typically rated at a higher age recommendation than other games. First off, my opponent in this argument has conceded that violent video games do, in fact, cause bad behavior in children. My opponent believes that with the rating system in place, this kind of bad behavior can be deterred. However, it has been shown many times that not all kids follow the rating system. 50% of boys between the ages of 12-17 and 14% of girls in the same age range have a favorite video game that is rated M or AO (above their age level recommendation)[2]. Therefore, since violent video games cause bad behavior, and kids are playing violent video games, video games are causing bad behavior in the lives of kids. Education Games My opponent next says that some games can be educational. This argument is irrelevant. The topic of this debate is whether or not video games can ""really put bad behavior into the lives of kids today"". This does not mean that all video games have to cause bad behavior for the resolution to be true. We know that there are some video games that cause violent behavior and agression[3], and therefore, kids playing these games will be negatively influenced. Kids My opponent claims that ""kids will never stop playing games, if they are good for them or not"". My opponent suggests that we should include education in these games in order to teach kids from playing games. My opponent is straying from the topic of this debate. We are not arguing about what should be done about video games, we are arguing about whether or not video games, as of now, are causing bad behavior in children. In conclusion, since violent video games are causing agressive behavior in children[3], and many children are playing violent video games[2], video games can put bad behavior in the lives of kids today. [1] http://mw4.merriam-webster.com...; [2] http://www.huffingtonpost.com...; [3] http://articles.cnn.com..."	PRO	544
544	S2442d956-Aa8d735bd	Video games are detrimental to the modern day society.	"I would like to thank the Pro for the opportunity to voice my opinion about how video games are not detrimental to the modern day society. Now before i start, I would like to inform the voters that and Pro, since we are in the same school, have agreed to certain rules which I would like to re-implicate since he is terrible at following directions. I. cursing or foul language prohibited at the risk of automatic forfeit II. arguments must be plausible, concise and properly cited Now I would like to begin my argument of why i think video games are detrimental to the modern day society. Since Pro did not write anything re-iterating or useful for the 1st round, I will begin. I like to begin with several definitions taken from the Word-Web dictionary: Video game- A game played on a computer (or other device) using computer graphics for display Detrimental- Causing harm or injury While I do not agree with how the video game marketers market slogan for some video games aimed at children, such as: ""*Kill your friends, guilt free. *More fun than shooting your neighbor's cat. *As easy as killing babies with axes (Carmageddon). ""[1] I do believe, and hope that a proper parent will not allow a 7 or 8 year old to play video games that are too violent. While the leading games sold are violent games, most of today's games force kids to learn complex rule systems, master challenging new interfaces, follow dozens of shifting variables in real time and prioritize between multiple objectives. In short, precisely the sorts of skills that they're going to need in the digital workplace of tomorrow. Consider this one fascinating trend among teenagers: They're spending less time watching professional sports and more time simulating those sports on Xbox or PlayStation. Now, which activity challenges the mind more — sitting around rooting for the Packers, or managing an entire football franchise through a season of ""Madden 2005"": calling plays, setting lineups, trading players and negotiating contracts? Which challenges the mind more — zoning out to the lives of fictional characters on a televised soap opera, or actively managing the lives of dozens of virtual characters in a game such as ""The Sims""? [L.A. Times] ""There are many people who argue that video games offer nothing but the downfall of society through a slippery slope of sex, drugs and violence. Take, for example, the Columbine High School shooting that occurred in 1999. Several people had blamed this act of violence not on an underlying issue caused by cruel peers, but evil music and violent video games. But is this really the case? As an interactive form of entertainment, are they really as bad as many people think? Those who oppose video games cite several negative effects to an excessive amount of playing time achieved, which includes addiction, permissive behavior, an increase in social isolation, aggression, gender bias and wasted time that could have been spent learning. None of which, I may add, was used in my opponent's posts. However, not all games foster these attitudes, just like not all movies allow an outlet or a sense out rightness in aggression, promiscuity and gender bias. Not only this, but video games are just one of many outlets that often portray underlying issues society is faced with- murder, war, ineffective governments, inequality, poverty and crime. There are various modes of education. While we should not promote video games, television and other technological ways over others, we still should not completely be opposed to these as well. Education can be found in anything, whether through social interaction, books, board games, music, video games and so forth. What you want to learn and how you want to learn, that is up to you. It is the individual's responsibility, and his or her responsibility only, to take whatever it is that one wants to take from anything. While it is true that children are easier to influence, it is up to the parents to determine what content they want their children to be exposed to. Just because a person reads a counter view to an issue, this does not mean that person will be persuaded to believe in that viewpoint. Just because a person reads a book in which a character imbibes in alcohol and illegal drugs does not mean the individual will then fall into that pattern. Just because a person watches a violent crime take place on a television screen does not necessarily mean that person will in turn commit a violent crime. Nor would any of these outlets justify a person's turn from the ethical rules that bind a society, or the laws themselves. At the end of the day, video games are not to blame for any action that occurs; it is the individual."" [2] ""I think that video games help prepare children for today's life and technology. Many of the games require strategy and decision making skills and these are always helpful. Actually, aren't these games like computers with menu's and options? This would aid children in learning basic computer language and ops. Though they may seem like a waste of time, like most playful behavior, it is grounded in abilities that children need to practice and learn to become successful in today's world."" [3] [1] http://www.softforyou.com... [2] http://www.nwmissourinews.com... [3] http://www.blurtit.com... Now that I have stated my opinion and facts about how video games are not detrimental to the modern day society, I would like Pro to counterattack my argument. Cheers. Note- because I am a newbie to this site, and the type box was messed up on my computer, I hope the voters would forgive me if I had misspelled or omitted any necessary words or punctuations. Also, apparently the tab key does not work so I sorry I am not able to indent my paragraphs for easy reading. Again, best of luck to Pro."	CON	545
545	S3ca50512-A8c04bf12	Video games have had an overall positive impact on society.	I affirm that the existence and introduction of video games to the world was overall a good thing. Video game - an electronic game played by means of images on a video screen and often emphasizing fast action (http://www.merriam-webster.com...) Contention 1: Video games encourage learning and activity. All video games require you to excersize your mind. Some video games, such as Wii Fit, Wii Sports, and other Wii games require physical activity. (http://en.wikipedia.org...) Many video games use math as a key component to its structure, and as such, the people who play them end up better at math than before. (http://en.wikipedia.org...) Contention 2: Video games lead to new technology. Video game companies are always looking for new technologies to give themselves a competetive edge in the gaming industry. This technology is then replicated outside of video games. Graphic cards used for video games are used to give more accurate MRI scans, X-rays, and seismic graphs. Contention 3: Video games are used for practical purposes. Many people use video games for physical therapy. (http://www.uspharmd.com...) Computer simulations are used for war training in a less costly, less deadly manner. (http://www.wired.com...) I await my opponent's counters and conentions of his own.	PRO	546
546	Scfd4c48a-A3dd3caa0	Video games cause bad behavior.	On her contentions in order: 1. People being unable to focus is not bad behavior. By that logic people who have ADD are evil. 2. I don't care about newspaper articles, it's irrelevant to this debate. I agree that we are surrounded by violence, but my opponent has yet to prove that being surrounded by violence has actually CAUSED bad behavior. Since she has yet to prove that she has no argument whatsoever at the moment supporting her claim. Onto my contentions: Both my points are cleanly ignored by my opponent, and thus extend both of those two arguments and those are your reasons for voting for Con today. Let me remind you that video games promote cognitive skills that people will need in life, and that also despite more and more people playing video games, crime rates have not gone up. For all these reasons, plus the fact that my opponent didn't post an argument until her very last speech, a strong vote for Con is recommended and justified.	CON	547
547	S6706fa3e-A7a88093c	Video games	Because the're are certain sequences in the game that shows kids ages 13 and down teen rated content. T for teen games still contain blood, violence, etc. In conclusion: Kids should only play games that fit their age.	CON	548
548	Sfc941f94-Aca8835fe	why video games are good for you.	"Watch your words. The one you have just ""copied"" was to contradict your stand. Oh, what was your stand again? Video games are good for you. Now that you have admitted that it depends upon the people it now contrast badly. Why? Video games are not good and saying that it depends upon the people means that it is not good to all people. In fact, the right words to use where ""gaming has benefits."" And maybe no one would've stood up to conquer you. You have misused words. Gaming is not good. Good is the definition of the results when these benefits implies to a person. Let me teach you some lesson, 1 gaming is not good 2 good is the definition if the benefits have impinged to an individual 3 misuse of words is misleading and may construct an invalid argumentative reason and 4 try not to geneneralize people. As what I've said, people have different ways of thinking. If we had one way of thinking and then the benefits of gaming would imply to us and using the terms ""Gaming is good"" would be acceptable. I'm not really here to say gaming is bad but I truly object your agenda. Once again, gaming is not good."	CON	549
549	S7ba93df6-Aebdbe413	Video games are actually good for you	"I would like to thank my opponent for a comprehensive response, and apologize for such a late response. I have been busy as of late. -=Rebuttals=- My opponent first attacks my case by saying that she advises families to check ratings before allowing children to play games. However, there is many families who do not strictly monitor the severity of the games. Many gamers play games rated above their age level, or specified rating. In fact, the same company she brought up, ESA (Entertainment Software Association) released statistics on the average age of gamers, and the percentage of gamers in each age group. The report of the Average Age Data for Gamers taken in 2012 showed that the average overall gamer is 30 years old. Besides this, 32% are under 18 years, 31% 18-35, and 37% who are 36 or more years old. [1] This shows that a large percentage of all gamers play under 18 years of age. Furthermore, in 2013, 20% of games sold were the ""shooter"" genre, second to most behind ""action"" at 30.9%. [2] Both of those top two categories frequently contain explicit and violent content. Lastly, in this general argument, my opponent states that she does not advocate for violent games being good for children. However, under the premise of the debate, she did not and has not specified to what type of games the resolution is referring. Thus, violent games fall under the umbrella of the resoltuion, and are pertinent in the debate. Her second attack is against the harm for users eyes. She claims that the harms are not due to the computers and/or gaming monitors themselves, but strictly to eye fatigue. However, that is the problem that we face when considering eye problems in relation to gaming. TED speaker, New York Times Bestselling author and game designer Jane McGonigal shows just how much time gamers spend at their hobby. ""Currently there are more than half a billion people worldwide playing computer and videogames at least an hour a day -- and 183 million in the U.S. alone. The younger you are, the more likely you are to be a gamer -- 99% of boys under 18 and 94% of girls under 18 report playing videogames regularly. The average young person racks up 10,000 hours of gaming by the age of 21 -- or 24 hours less than they spend in a classroom for all of middle and high school if they have perfect attendance. It's a remarkable amount of time we're investing in games. 5 million gamers in the U.S., in fact, are spending more than 40 hours a week playing games -- the equivalent of a full time job!"" [3] The same network my opponent used to back her claim supports this notion as well. Times Magazine documented that ""the average U.S. gamer age 13 or older spent 6.3 hours a week playing video games during 2013. That’s up from 5.6 hours in 2012, which was up from 5.1 hours in 2011."" [4] The trend is not moving in the right direction, and will only lead to further fatigue of the eyes, thus causing Computer Vision Syndrome at an increasing rate among gamers. Her next argument focuses on the reality that teens spend a lot of time gaming, which results in socially inactiveness and often awkardness. She claims that the older generation just ""doesn't get it"" and that the teens and children just need a break after school. However, we also see that coming straight home from school and gaming doesn't require the physical exertion necessary for teens to maintain a healthy lifestyle, and instead, many teens become sedentary. Centers for Disease Control and prevention suggest that teens and children get a minimum of 60 minutes of physical activity each day. They state, ""Aerobic activity should make up most of your child's 60 or more minutes of physical activity each day. [Muscle strengthening should be done] at least 3 days per week as part of your child's 60 or more minutes. [Bone strengthening should be done] at least 3 days per week as part of your child's 60 or more minutes."" [5] The long hours of playing video games is only detrimental. My opponent then claims that there is no link to shooting games and violent crimes. She backs that up by saying 91% of people play games, which is no support. People can still be affected even though many people play the game. Refer back to the evidence from Vladan Starcevic. The shooters directly linked their actions to the game. -=Claims=- My opponent also brings up that games help with teamwork. This minute benefit is outweighed by the host of harms. Her next claim is that video games assist problem solving and creativity. This is benefit is also outweighed by harms that can come from attempting to receive those benefits. Sources: [1] http://www.geekquality.com... [2] http://www.theesa.com... [3] http://www.ted.com... [4] http://time.com... [5] http://www.cdc.gov..."	CON	550
550	S6ba1043a-A5544dcca	Religion causes more violence than video games	"Pro.. I have reasons to believe that you have not read my statements in full. But.. nonetheless: The following times magazine article discussing the video game violence has given insight onto the subject of the matter, drawing conclusions based based on studies in the US where children are becoming more and more violent due to playing video-games. If the young child (the teen) is exposed at such an early age to this type of violent video games then their personality and brain function changes as well, developing him into an aggressive adult. Now lets take this into consideration. Most of today's soldiers are trained through simulations, most of tactics and advanced weaponry are developed thorough simulation on a computer. If these simulations are being ""dumb"" down to a video game level, which is what most of today's war games are like (they collaborate with the military forces) to implement in their games in order to make them more realistic. You would argue that these game have not created any wars but such event as Columbine and many others [2] have created this internal war. Now lets look at how many fight there have been since the 2000's that involved teens took matters into their own hands and started killing people. That number will have to be very small since i was unable to find any that were documented. I believe that video games are developing an aggressive behavior in today's teens and even preteens (20+) which can impact their behaviors in the future. [1] http://time.com... [2] http://en.wikipedia.org..."	CON	551
551	S6f8c5872-Acb224732	Video games are a better source of entertainment than movies	"""You sound like you have a PS4 you should add me on there what are your favorite video games? Do you play fortnite"" No point given. I'll still answer it. Yes I do use a Playstation 4 but prefer singleplayer games. I don't really like multiplayer games. ""What does subjective mean and it it's a bad movie you wouldn't watch it a second time you would rewatch a movie if it is a good movie. "" Subjective: based on or influenced by personal feelings, Tastes, Or opinions. (Google: Subjective define) A good video game has more replayability than a good movie based on time. Good in this instance is whatever you like. ""That wasnt meant to help your side. When I said all day I meant it as hypothetical. ""Better going to the movies than playing a game all day"" I'm speaking in general not speaking on myself"" Even if you did a video game can keep the user's attention longer than a movie. Looking at the same movie becomes more tedious compared to playing the same game all day. Reason is you can choose what to do, How to do it and when to do it. A movie is what the director intended whereas yes it would also be the same for video games but you still have to interact for things to happen. That time you take to interact does give the player more freedom and more chances to make the content less stale and do something instead of watching the same thing over and over again. ""can't argue with that one"" No new point made again. I would also argue video games due to how varied the choices can be does allow the user more replayability. ""Well ok then we'll see the voters decisions"" Instead of making an argument you just say that."	PRO	552
552	Sb1fed0e9-A49cf24f1	Ban should be imposed on violent video games.	"I don't need much of a response to this and I am going to keep it pretty short My adversary is proposing a change in the status quo so it is on him to present evidence and a case to actually change it. He cites a case and says there is a correlation between a violent act and violent video games without ever showing a source or anything to support it. He just simply says acts occur because of violence video games, this is just a statement not an argument. For his case to stand he would have to show evidence of a correlation between violent video games and violent acts in real life, and then show that this is reason enough to impose a ban. Slippery slope In some ways this is what his argument would lead to. Imposing a ban on violent video games because of acts that occur, is not solving the solution. He would then have to advocate for the banning of violent movies, pictures, and everything else that could act as a catalyst for violence. At worst case the game itself is just a catalyst for issues that are already inside of a teen. More reasonable ideas Check IDS before someone buys a game or implement some mental health check under certain games that are released. Granted I think this is really bored in itself because a game is never going to be the prime reason someone goes out and murders someone else. There will always be issues that need to be addressed. At worst case scenario the game is merely a catalyst and there is no way to actually ban it effectively. Conclusion the best quote I have seen for this topic is ""It is not surprising that most schoolyard shooters and many adult mass murderers had played violent video games in their spare time. Violent people are often attracted to violent entertainment — on TV, in film or through game consoles. But the ability to document a causal link — that consuming violent entertainment leads to violent behavior — has eluded social scientists for years.""[1] Violent people like violent content, but it is hard to show that violent content is the main reason they are violent. There are much more pratical ways to get around an all out ban such as people actually checking IDS when they buy games. This is just another industry in America that has its right to expression. It is no different than the movie industry or any other industry we can think of. There is also no evidence to show that violent games are a primary cause of violent behavior. My adversary would have to prove this point to win this debate. He does not show this and merely just makes an assumption. [1] http://www.nydailynews.com..."	CON	553
553	S2a9f4151-Ab9cffeaf	Video games(Pro) vs books (con)	"This is a very hard debate, but I am excited to see who accepts. I will be in favour of video games being better than books. This will be done by explaining which one is better for creativity. This debate will be based on which one encourages more creativity. Video games will be considered as ""Playing"" and books will be considered as ""reading"". Writing a book will have nothing to do with this debate, only reading."	PRO	554
554	S6ba1043a-Aa0a67bb8	Religion causes more violence than video games	Then what started wars? Fight just to fight? ISIS kills others for their religion. Wars start because someone's religion says to destroy or kill people. Others try to defend off those people who destroy or kill people for their religion. Explain that with video games. You can't because no war, battles, or fights has happened with children with video games. It's because of religion.	PRO	555
555	Sce330406-A29fe548f	Violent Video Games Cause Violent Behavior	"Violent Video Games cause violence in children: http://edition.cnn.com... http://time.com... http://www.pamf.org... http://www.psychologytoday.com... They just do. I think you meant ""Violent Video Games Cause Violent Behavior [In Teens]"" because they don't, but in children they do, it's not a debate; children will emulate Power Rangers and all sorts of things they see on television as well (http://www.thecrimson.com..., http://www.ofcom.org.uk...) and they are especially susceptible to media. Good luck."	PRO	556
556	S3ca50512-A644f6227	Video games have had an overall positive impact on society.	"Alright, I would appreciate it if you would try to counter the points that I have made. ""First of all, video games have taken the replacement of outdoor activities. Yes, I do understand that there is physical labor in the playing of video games, but outdoor exercise has a more positive effect. Studies show that fresh air stimulates the brain and increases attention, so you can learn better in class. It also regulates your blood pressure."" Actually, it would be more accurate to say that video games tend to replace watching TV more than they do outdoor activities. ""Second of all, video games are very addictive. We can't just look at the physical side of video games. Video games also affect our studies in school. I have met many people that are so addicted to video games that they have been doing bad in class, and I'm pretty sure many other have, too. Video games are like drugs: they can, in a way, control your mind."" Well, of course video games are addictive, and some people do become obsessed. However, I don't think that this bad side can really weigh down all of the positive things that I have listed. Video games can also be educational, however; I have played Zoombinis, and it has improved my math and logic skills. I've also played The Cluefinders, and some more other random educational video games. ""Human beings were not made to be trapped at home and be immersed in games that do not benefit our future in any way. I am an atheist, yes, but I still believe that human beings have a part in the world, and 'video games' are not helping that fact."" On the contrary, video games only trap the minds of the weak-minded, which contributed to natural selection in a way. Video games have had many positive effects that cannot be ignored. I am going to introduce a new contention: Contention 4: Video games increase dexterity for those who play them. http://blog.peterkupfer.net... http://discovermagazine.com... Video games have been proven to help surgeons be more accurate in their surgeries. http://www.upi.com... That means that less people have died of surgical errors because of video games. Try telling the people who would otherwise be dead that video games have had a bad impact on society. One more contention, actually: Contention 5: Video games create jobs. http://www.nintendo.com... Thank you for your time."	PRO	557
557	Sd4bb089c-Af797ffa7	Violent video games lead to violent behaivior	Violent video games don't lead to violent behaivior any more than playing Candy Crush leads to candy addictions. If anything, they are cathartic. Studies on this topic are plagued by the fact that correlation does not imply causation. If a murderer plays violent video games, isn't it more logical to say that as someone who kills in real life would kill in a game than to say that the game led him/her to the act of killing?	CON	558
558	Sd672d38d-Ac5e1c17d	Violent Video games should be ban	The newspaper argument you posted is one individual and it does not prove that video games make people violent. In fact, what your article proves is that people will do anything to get what they want. The video game did not make that person violent. His desire to get something he did not have made him violent. It is the same as a person who steals. What fear mongers and paranoid people do is pick something violent people have in common and say that is the cause of violence. Well, all people have toothbrushes, clothes, TVs, etc. We could just as easily say those things cause violence. Yet, we all know the don't. The odds of a violent person having a video game is very high since many households have them. That doesn't mean the video games cause violence. It just means people like the product so they purchased it. Like I said, I have been around real violence. When a person does something violent, it is for very specific reasons within that person. It has nothing to do with a game. If anything, the game lets the person relieve the stress in a non-harmful way. Want to see a really violent person? See a person who holds everything in and then one day just snaps. Look at all the violence cases. Go past the news or the twitter feeds that tell you nothing. Look at the case itself. What cause violence is more than likely two people going at it and in most cases, both parties are at fault in some way.	CON	559
559	Sdfeb7990-Ae70ac2ac	Video games (pro) vs books (con)	i found that it says that you get more history out of books then video games, books help you understand a lot of thing about the y mean. Help became better at understanding words and other stuff in the world. In video games you some times are killing what is that teaching you in life?	CON	560
560	S8ae69f16-A7f06f868	Video games and/or simulations are an efficient form of training and education.	My burden is to try and prove that video games and/or simulation can be just as efficient or more efficient in educating and training people, than the traditional methods of educating and training people. My opponent's burden will be to try and prove that the traditional methods for educating and training people, can be more efficient than video games and/or simulations in educating and training people.	PRO	561
561	Sb84c76ff-A675db97b	no violent video games don't cause violence	if a kid plays a violent video game and then develops violent behaviors its not because of the video game. you need to look into that childs psyche instead of the video games. i personally think that video games give the person an excuse to take action towards the violent thoughts that their minds fabricated on their own. there is obviously something wrong with the person if they go and do these things just because they play a game that does it. take it from me I'm a teenager who has suffered abuse and bullying. i have been diagnosed with major depression, adhd, and ocd. i have been in programs and stuff to help myself. i have performed self mutilation. and i play cod black ops every night. i am more intuned to becoming violent than normal kids without these issues. but I'm not violent aim one of the sweetest people i know	CON	562
562	Se362974a-Afb6b9499	Video Games have made a positive impact on our everyday lives.	"Video games encourage learning and activity"" This point is true for some games but we know this isn't true most of them. Most games are hours worth of brainless activity. The games that help learning are more popular now but not throughout the history of video games. Video games have replaced playing outside and reading a book. ""2 Video games improve our technology beyond video games "" ""3. Video games provide entertainment"" This stuff doesn't make something good. Nuck bombs make advancements in other areas of science such as energy. (Of course I don't find video games that bad) Entertainment is something we will still have without video games. Entertainment can have negative impacts. Impacts on behavior and culture Computer, television, and video game increases are now used in a growing trend of neglect. People are talking to their kids for 5 minutes and then given a video game so they will be left alone for hours. Kids are also becoming much more in need of entertainment things like cellphones and gameboys like never before."	CON	563
563	S4846a6c1-Aa6c9ce55	Movies are better than video games	"Thank you, Con. I will now present my opening argument, while refuting some points she made early on. It's debatable whether or not video games are art, but the fact that film is an art form is indisputable. Movies are made to look beautiful, have complex stories, and be up to the viewer's interpretation. Video games, due to the limitations of technology, can't visually compete with real life or animation. Even the best-looking games are made exclusively by the richest companies, whereas any skilled indie director can create a decent-looking movie. Games often don't even have a story, and if they do, it's often generic, boring, and intrudes into the gameplay. Look at games like Halo, Call of Duty, Resident Evil, and Metal Gear. Do people play these games to immerse themselves in the cutscenes? Of course not, and people often complain about the length of said cutscenes. [1] [2] Con makes this general statement: ""Something draws your towards a game, that an film or an book can not. [sic]"" What exactly is this something? I'm certainly more drawn to movies and books, and there are plenty of people who feel the same way. Perhaps you like games better, but that doesn't mean everyone does. ""For example Black Ops 3, the most frequently bought in game stories throughout England for the whole of 2015. both more often then any other film. [sic]"" There are three problems with this statement. First, there are no sources to support Con's information. Second, that probably isn't taking Netflix or DVDs into account, but because I don't have the source, I don't know. Third and finally, just because something sold better doesn't make it superior. Call of Duty sells well because it panders to the token demographic, namely boys aged 5-17. The great thing about movies is that they will always try new, creative ways to entertain us. People will try tugging at our heartstrings, making us laugh, pumping our adrenaline, or giving an unexpected twist to make their movie stand out from the rest. Many people fail, but those films that succeed are remembered forever. Games, on the other hand, are allowed deliver the same formula over and over without any backlash. Going back to Call of Duty, look at Activision, the company that basically makes the same game every couple of years. They don't receive any major fan complaints and still manage to trick everyone into buying their new product whenever it comes out. Also take Pokemon, one of the best-selling franchises of all time. Every Pokemon game is structured almost the exact same way, but fans eat it up without even noticing. The reason for this is very simple: because games are addicting. Con seems to think this is a good thing, but I disagree. Think of how much more productive some folks would be if they stopped playing World of Warcraft and integrated with human society. There is one tragic report (as one example of several) of a Korean man who died after playing video games for three days straight while neglecting food and water. [3] Naturally, most gamers aren't addicted to this degree and know when enough is enough. But you never hear about people dropping dead during a Netflix binge, do you? Rather than luring the viewer into a sort of trance, films have a clear beginning, middle, and end. They're entertaining, but not addictive or harmful as games can be. There are some excellent games that I love, such as Earthbound, Okami, Morrowind, and every Sims game. But none of them can compare to a good movie. No game can make people laugh like The Hangover or Airplane. Nor can they make you cry like Schindler's List or The Color Purple. There isn't a single game with as much testosterone-filled action as Mad Max: Fury Road, and there isn't a game that depicts war as realistically as Saving Private Ryan. There are several games that try to spook you with cheap jumpscares, but none that can match the terrifying atmosphere of Alien. Overall, the best films elicit a great emotional response from the viewer, while the best games are usually mindless fun. To me, there's no contest which one is better. SOURCES: 1. http://www.gamesradar.com... 2. http://www.egmnow.com... 3. http://www.ibtimes.com..."	PRO	564
564	Sd407e82c-A479a4445	Video games caused WW2.	It is a little known fact that Hitler didn't like violent video games. He much preferred to play on his tamagotchi and eat pasta. This brings me to my first point: It was in fact pasta that made Hitler so angry. Germany didn't have any pasta in the late 30's due to the great pasta shortage, so he wanted to invade Italy (where else?) to take their pasta. It just so happened that there were a lot of countries in the way. This made him angry so he started to take it out on other people. However this is a little known fact because the mason order covered it up because in reality the Germanic masons had all the pasta and they didn't want to be blamed for the war.	CON	565
565	S586cd9b6-A33aec076	Video games are making children more violent in nature.	I believe that video games are shaping many children in a negative way. This is mainly because of games like modern warfare and grand theft auto (purely as an example here). These games -and ones of a similar genre- are introducing violence to a much younger audience than the intended target market of the games. The competitive side to these games and their harsh and explicit nature is teaching children to be a lot more violent towards one another: Even though this is not the specific aim of the game.	PRO	566
566	Sfbccfb3f-A787559a	All have a moral obligation to purchase video games	I will be representing the negative for this debate. I will be negating the resolution, and arguing that all beings do NOT have a moral obligation to purchase video games. I accept that morality is absolute. My opponent offered the argument that the video game industry is pivotal to the economy, and therefore, we have a moral obligtion to support it. He also argued that if we were to stop funding it, then everyone would stop funding it, so as to have fair treatment. Without funding, it would collapse. I have three responding arguments. 1. Not all beings can afford to buy video games. If we are unable to do something, are we still obligated to? My opponent is arguing that if you have enough money to pay your fair share to supporting the gamin industry, but have no food, you must not buy food but instead video games. If you buy food instead, you are morally wrong. This is not a sound argument. 2. My opponent never stated how he was morally obligated to buy video games. This point is self-explanatory. I would ask my opponent to make the logical connection between the video game industry being pivotal to the economy, and his moral responsibility. Also, my opponent never showed how we can infer that people draw security from the gaming industry. 3. The economy thrives in a free market environment. I remind my opponent that without our free market, the economy would plummet. Free market has repeatedly been demonstrated as the most effective way to run an economy. If we are all obligated to buy something, this is not free market. I eagerly await my opponent's response.	CON	567
567	S9a1a8408-Ab676d837	Video games are a serious art form.	Good evening my dear fellow DDO members, welcome. The instigator has proposed the following idea: that video games can not be an art form, or a medium to express an artistic idea. I however, being both, unofficially, an artist and a game developer and thus have insight into both fields, state the opposite: that games can and are a medium for art. Since I am holding the affirmative idea it is but fair that I hold most of the BoP, so let's begin. What is art? This is a question that is as debatable as it is vague and might as well be a debate series all on its own. However, there is a plethora of ways that may help us decipher what art is. My opponent defined art, indirectly, as followed: --Art must be a reaction to life and or events. --Art must be able to influence other art. Albeit this is a good starting point for art I find it to be highly inaccurate and downright narrow minded. In addition it completely ignores a wide array of games that fit into either or both categories. Before I start my rebuttal and then present my own case I'd like to take the dictionary definition of art: Art[noun] The expression of emotions, creativity, imaginations and thoughts; Often to make appealing or atheistically stimulating products. And: ART 1[MASS NOUN] The expression or application of human creative skill and imagination, typically in a visual form such as painting or sculpture, producing works to be appreciated primarily for their beauty or emotional power Works produced by human creative skill and imagination This is taken directly from another debate I had on the subject on art where I also discussed in somewhat optimal ways what art is. [1,2 ] this isn't a complete definition, but it is a definition that can be applied to a lot, if not all, “proper” artwork and thus we can apply it to the examples I'll choose and see if it fits. Let's get to it. Videoart as my opponent defines it. In order to fully rebut the definition my opponent gave on art I only need to find games that fit into his two categories. Simple enough. In the first example he defined art as something that portrays a reaction to human life, human emotion and human society. Albeit this is debatable I'll still go with it for the next example. Heavy Rain [2010] was for instance a prime example of human emotion and how people react to emotional trauma. The plot line starts off immediately with the protagonist attempting to save his child from a car accident: something that leaves a large emotional scar. His life starts to spiral downwards from there, and when finally the interactive plot line itself begins we find that his only son has been kidnapped by a serial killer. The entire game from that point is entirely based on what a father would do to save his son, a deep love portrayal. Many, if not all, scenes in the game are filled with emotion and sorrow and we often sympathize with him, and often feel sad and bitter. dealing with emotions such as grief, sorrow, remorse, suicide, terror, panic, love, murder and pure insanity in a masterful and lifelike way. That kind of emotional power and influence is something a true art medium can have, stringing us along like a good film would. Even when we go into the simpler things: 2001, a space oddysy. Is not the only medium dealing with the dangers of corrupt AI and advancing tech or society. System shock[1994] and portal[2007] both put the player on a fight against an AI, and better yet the former is set upon a space ship. In addition to those two obvious samples there are a whole plethora of games that deal with humanity, human society and human emotion. A quick google search will reveal a whole lot of them. The second definition involves a game being able to influence some other art medium. I could take a game and analyze it, but instead I think it would be best just to mention Resident Evil[1996], Silent hill[1999] and then every single item on this list: http://en.wikipedia.org... along with all the fan made artwork that can be found on google with a little search. I left a few examples[3,4,5]. Now, that alone should be a case for the artistic value of games, but let's move on a bit. What makes a game into art? This is a question we might go a bit into further into the debate: but to start we can simply go into the definition: “The expression of emotions, creativity, imaginations and thoughts; Often to make appealing or atheistically stimulating products.” Now, I've already shown a game that is a reflection of emotion and frankly there are a lot of games that also fit that column. Don't be fooled, it takes a lot of creativity to make a good game and especially an artistic game and a lot of skill is involved. For instance: http://i.imgur.com... This is an untextured scene from my current project. Now, I admit, the lighting is incorrect and the textures are not present, but just the bare modelling took me an hour or two. I am not the best 3D artist in the world, but then you consider that just the modelling is hard work, and when you go into high poly models you're going into soom serious skill. And then you move away from modelling and think: What about all the other things that games are made up from? I can show you that there is next to every other art present in some form in video games. We have atheistically brilliant looking games. Try making that yourself and then try and tell me that this is not art. Note that this is not painted and this is not a static, pre-rendered images. These are all, to my best knowledge, dynamic screen shots taken in-game. [witcher III, witcher II, project eternity.) And even when you take all the fancy imagery that took hours and hours, weeks and weeks, to model, texture, shade and program, we still have the audio. The art of music. A composer can tell you that soundtracks do not write themselves, and they are art just like the visuals on the screen. Just listen to some of these [6] and tell me that they are not art in some form. I had a hard time picking some to showcase here directly and still wonder if I'm listening to a 5 star classical orchestra piece, a Greek temple chant, or a soundtrack from digital entertainment. ; we have sculpturing, architecture, CGI, a whole load of voice acting, motion acting, story tellers, painters and sound designers alike and an entire team of artists ready to entertain you. To conclude Video games are the ultimate form of art. It is interactive art where the artwork lures you in and welcomes you to discover the world behind the controller. They are a mix and mash and show the co-operation of next to all other artistic medium available to the common man. They offer art right to your doorstep and to your screen. Video games are art on the highest level, they fit every single definition of art and they roll around millions just by trying to impress you and connect with you. To entertain you, move you, transport you from your life and into the life of the characters that inhabit them. Video games are not art, video games are the art. 1]https://www.debate.org... 2]http://www.debate.org... 3]http://th05.deviantart.net... 4]http://designyoutrust.com... 5]http://www.blogcdn.com... 6]http://www.forbes.com...	PRO	568
568	Se927395d-A886f530a	Video games can actually be beneficial	"My opponent drops the analysis I provide at the very top of my Round 2. Extend where I""m talking about how by his own definition his objective reality argument makes no sense. If we take the definition of actually that he provides and plug it into the resolution, the resolution changes from ""Video games can actually be beneficial"" to ""Video games can truthfully/factually be beneficial"". At the very worst, this means that I have to show some sort of empirical evidence (i.e. factually) as to the benefits of playing video games. Showing statistics is sufficient to meet his absurd standard because: First, fact means ""something that actually exists; reality; truth"".(1) Since empirics show us what actually is within the real world, it""s a display of something that actually exists. This is sufficient to meet his standard of factually beneficial. Second, true means ""being in accordance with the actual state or conditions; conforming to reality or fact; not false"".(2) Empirics are sufficient to meet this because they show you exactly what""s happening within the real world, i.e. reality. But even if you don""t buy my analysis here, he""s not actually showing you that an objective reality doesn""t exist. His only argument for objective reality not being true is that our values as human beings vary and are subjective. This argument doesn""t make sense, though, because: First, he denies the possibility of being wrong. He""s making the assumption that if as a five year old I value being a dinosaur and eating my little sister""s barbie dolls that being a dinosaur, then my true subjective purpose is to be a dinosaur and eat my little sister""s barbie dolls. Rather, our subjective values and beliefs are always capable of being wrong. Just because I subjectively believe that two plus two equals five, that doesn""t mean that two plus two suddenly equals five; it means I need to go and re-take first grade mathematics. Second, he""s making the assumption of absense of evidence means evidence of absense, which is an entirely fallacious logical step to make. Even if we aren""t aware of our objective purpose in life, that doesn""t mean that there isn""t an objective purpose in life. It comes down to him making the claim that it doesn""t exist to prove it, otherwise we ignore literally all of this pointless debate and go back to the actual resolution at hand. And, on the shifting the goalposts argument: First, this is entirely reliant on his objective reality argument, so since I""m winning that his logic here doesn""t make sense. Second, I""m not shifting any goalposts since I""m factually proving that video games can provide benefits through the use of empirical studies that factually show benefits coming from playing video games. This is me hitting the goalpost square on, not shifting it. And, at the end of the day, if you""re still in question about who""s best showing reality, you""re still presuming pro here because I""m making the best attempt at showing what""s objective within reality through using empirics, compared to my opponent""s own (as he claims) subjective ramblings, which means I""m the one who""s most likely consistent with the reality of things. This means that you can extend out the study I provided last round as to the benefits of playing video games, which is that it leads to increased hand-eye coordination, problem solving ability, learning, health, and social skills. This is literally the only weighable impact in the round, which means it""s the only piece of offense that you as a judge can vote off of, and it flows aff. To conclude, ignore the semantics, vote off of literally the only piece of resolutional evidence provided and vote pro. Sources: - http://tinyurl.com... - http://tinyurl.com..."	PRO	569
569	S498856cd-A239dcbb8	Video Games can Change you Life for the Better	My Argument is that Video Games Can change peoples lives for the better, granted, with being Self aware; this is not to say that video games have not hurt people or influenced people in a negative way. Winning should be based on Audience judgment on who had the most convincing and persuasive argument. Articles or other source based evidence is allowed but prefer to have a personal Opinion vs Personal opinion based argument on this one Argument I Contest that Video Games have been a Social Serotonin for hermits and other people who have found a lack of companionship in other aspects of life. Also fro relationships friends and family to provide a variety source of entertainment My Points Men can be attached to cars So much to the fact they will break the neck of anyone who steps 5 feet of it, an Object, that cant talk or socialize, So how much more could a video gamer be attached to live characters that can interact and tell a story and touch on the powerful human psyche of social concepts and visualization of men and women in the game in relation to their own self. Women can be attached to purses and hair extensions and again these objects do not talk or socialize with the person Buying them, so once more how much more would it be for a video gamer to get attached to a game that allows him to do things in a superficial world that he could never do in real life and see themselves personified in a character creation system NOTE in both the men and women scenarios I am not downplaying the significance of the items they buy or hold value in, because those things are a symbol of expression of themselves and can be sentimental I end Round 1 in the fact that Video games can help people who are lonely or single or even in a relationship and can provide entertainment for couples friends and family.	PRO	570
570	S61e968f7-Abf8e93a9	video games help hand eye coordination	"I would like to add that this is my first debate with this site. I would also like to mention that I am an avid gamer and play 2-3 hours a day. I am not sure about the official rules of who starts since they are not included, but I would like to extend the opening arguments to Pro since it would appear that the burden of proof would be theirs. It will be my objective to prove that video games do not actually improve hand eye coordination. This is seemingly impossible as doing any activity involving your eyes and hands should have some minimal affect on hand-eye coordination. (Such as counting to 10 on your fingers over and over again might improve your hand-eye coordination, but is it worth the effort) I would ask Pro if the terms could be slightly altered to read: ""Video games improve hand eye coordination enough to make a significant difference."" Definitions (please revise if not correct, Pro) Video games: an electronic game that involves human interaction with a user interface to generate visual feedback on a video device. Help: Improve in some measurable amount Hand Eye Coordination(aka HEC): the coordinated vision and hand movement to execute a task."	CON	571
571	Sce330406-A6cc24484	Violent Video Games Cause Violent Behavior	"Thanks to my opponent for accepting! Good luck to him/her! :) Before I begin, I want to point out that the onus is on my opponent to prove that the resolution is true. This is because: a) The burden is on him to prove a positive statement (i.e. the resolution), as it's impossible to prove a negative claim. b) The resolution demands that he prove that violent video games cause violent behavior, and that I prove they do not. This means that so long as I'm refuting my opponent's arguments, then it's sufficient for me to win the debate, as I'm disproving my opponent's position, i.e. showing how violent video games do not cause violent behavior. OVERVIEW TO MY OPPONENT'S CASE: My opponent seems to be using the tactic of just citing sources without actually writing out an arugment. There's a few problems with doing this. First, this is just the appeal to authority fallacy. He's just showing the articles to me and saying that I'm wrong because it's all right there. By that line all I have to do is show my own sources and nothing in his last round stands anymore because the sources would cancel each other out. Without writing any actual arguments, he doesn't have anything to advance in the round, and thus no way to win. Second, this is a debate between me and the user blackbird. If I wanted to debate the authors of those articles, I'd contact them and do so. It's unfair to me to be expected to read through every article and respond to everything in them while all my opponent did was just list off a few results from Google. Judges, I ask that you don't let him get away with this kind of behavior. If he doesn't actually give you any arguments of his own, then vote him down. But, even though it's unfair for me to have to, I read through his sources. Let's examine each one in depth: THE CNN SOURCE: His first source is a source from CNN talking about the link between violent video games and aggression. This source is a wash for a few reasons: First, he's mistakingly saying that aggression and violent behavior are the same thing. That's not the case though. I can be an aggressive person without doing a single violent thing. Aggression doesn't necessitate violent acts and the onus is on him to prove that it does. Second, his own source admits that there could be an outside reason other than the violence that's causing the aggression. To quote his own article, """"It's not the violence per se that's the problem, it's the context and goals of the violence,"" said Olson, citing past research on TV violence and behavior."". Since my opponent has to be proving that it's the violence that's causing the violent acts, as per the resolution, if I show that there's an outside reason other than violence that's causing these violent acts then you vote con. Third, his own source admits that his own source has too vague of definitions, and that there needs to be better definitions of what a violent video game constitutes and what aggressive behavior constitutes. To quote his own source, "". But she argues that the label ""violent video games"" is too vague. Researchers need to do a better job at defining what is considered a violent video game and what constitutes aggressive behavior, she added."" This means that a) his source doesn't fully defend the position he's taking and b) it further confirms my earlier point that aggression isn't the same thing as violent acts. THE TIME SOURCE: My opponent's next source is a source from the New York Times, talking about, again, how exposure to violent video games leads to aggression. This source is even worse. First, refer back to my above argument about how aggression and violent acts are not the same thing. Second, his own source contradicts his claim. To quote his source, ""Anderson and his team, however, did not see any significant difference in empathy among the players who played more or fewer hours. That confirmed earlier lab-based studies that showed both undergraduates who played violent games and those that played non-violent ones were equally likely to help scientists pick up dropped pens."" And this is important because if there's no difference in empathy between those who play violent video games and those who do not, the claim that violent vidoe games lead to aggression looks even worse than it did before. Also, if violent video game players are showing the same levels of empathy as non-violent video game players are, then they're just as likely to also commit acts of violence as those who do not, since empathy is the opposite of aggression (helping someone as opposed to hurting them), which suggests an alternative cause to the violent acts than the violence in video games. Third, his own source blatantly argues against his position. To quote, ""The evolving literature is why some researchers, including Christopher Ferguson, chair of the psychology department at Stetson University, insist there isn’t strong evidence that exposure to violent video games leads to more aggressive behavior. He notes, for example, that the rise in popularity of video gaming has not been matched by a similar rise in violent crime among adolescents who are most likely to play them. Studies that link violent video games to violent behavior, he says, often fail to account for other factors that can contribute to aggression, such as violence in the home, abuse, and mental illness."" This is catastrophic for my opponent because it shows that a) violent video games don't lead to more aggression, b) if it did then there would be a corrolation between video game and violent crime among adolescents, which his own source says doesn't exist, and c) that there are alternative explanations to the violent behavior (i.e. domestic violence, abuse, and mental disease) that causes the violent behavior. THE PAMF SOURCE: My opponent's third source is from the Palo Alto Medical Foundation, and makes the claim that violent video games leads to aggression. This source is trash as well. First, refer to the above as to how aggression and violent acts are not the same thing. Secondly, the source doesn't actually present any kind of evidence. It says a bunch of stuides have said things ("" A 2004 study by Gentile, Lynch, Linder & Walsh found that teens who play violent video games for extended periods of time: ... ), without giving us anything about the study (i.e. methodology, sample size, etc.). This means it's impossible to verify the integrity of the study conducted, which means there's no reason we should trust the accuracy of the study for the purpose to this debate. Third, even his own source won't defend the accuracy of outside sources/websites. To quote, ""[B]elow are links PAMF accessed when researching this topic. PAMF does not sponsor or endorse any of these sites, nor does PAMF guarantee the accuracy of the information contained on them."" If the source he's citing to make x claim won't even defend the information they used to make that claim, there's absolutely no reason we should trust his source. THE PSYCHOLOGY TODAY SOURCE: His fourth and final source is from Psychology today and is saying that---wait, where have I seen this before? Is it making the claim that violent video games lead to aggression? Oh no, it is... Well, might as well dive right in. First, refer above to why violent acts and aggression are not the same thing. Secondly, the empirical evidence cited by this article is not even linked, just the results were stated, meaning we have no way to confirm that the study was a valid study. Third, the evidence it uses isn't even significant. The results from the study said, and I quote, ""These studies find that playing violent video games does, indeed, cause aggression. The effect is a correlation of about r = .20"", which is statistically insignificant. It's more likely that an alternative cause, like one's previously mentioned, are causing the violent behavior other than the violence in video games themselves. HIS OTHER TWO SOURCES: My opponent cites two more sources, which, as he claims, show how children ""will emulate Power Rangers and all sorts of things they see on television as well "". This is irrelevant to the debate. Our discussion is about violent video games. Anything outside of this should have no relevance to the debate at hand. IN CONCLUSION: I have gone through all of my opponent's claims and thuroughly refuted each and every source he cited. Moreover, he has not actually presented a single argument this debate, only letting google do his arguing for him. This means that a) you're defaulting to voting con because he doesn't have a single argument to advance through the round, which means he isn't proving that violent video games cause violent behavior, and b) even if you're counting his source-spam as an argument, I've gone through and shown how his sources are both flawed and contradictory to his position, providing me with evidence for my position, meaning I'm doing the better job upholding my resolutional burden. I pass the floor back over to my opponent, and wish him luck with the rest of the debate! :)"	CON	572
572	S2b189cdf-A415426fd	there should be less violence in video games	"First of all Gaming is a medium of art Games like COD show what war is like maybe it is not put in the right environment but is still about the CDP team conquering Black ops team. The game is about good over evil. Assassins creed shows what life like was in the past and you can learn from this. Also I know COD is not What it used to be but the new Battle field 1 gives a better representation of war and understanding. Battle field 1 is an art it shows a representation of war and art is a representation of something so your argument about games only having sex and violence is not i all games yes because this is a representation of war it is going to be violent but this shows that games still are not just about sex and violence. Violent video games do not ruin children. Parents ruin children. What i mean is that guns do not shoot people. People shoot guns. So what i am trying to say is that if a parent is allowing children to play violent games then it is their fault if a child is ""ruined"" however what do you mean by ruined. Play to many games because if you play to many games and no studying then that will ruin a child. Games like mine craft is violent and the mods can make mine craft more violent so your argument is technically incorrect mine craft has sword and killing small vulnerable animals and zombies and spiders and skeletons and creepers that explode which could be seen as a suicide bomber which could give children an affect of thinking creepers are cool i want to explode and then they bomb a building. Seems over exaggerated however this is possible but it still gives the ideas of issues relating to even games that seem innocent."	CON	573
573	S69bf66d1-A3808b8b6	Anita Sarkeesian and Women in Video Games	"I said that sexism doesn't effect men the same way it does women, that doesn't mean that it's not as bad or serious as sexism against women. Sexism against women is, however, more deeply seeded into our society and culture- video games included. I actually don't have a problem with the ""ideal"" woman being portrayed in games, a little bit of sexual titillation isn't necessarily a bad thing. I would certainly never advocate that games be sexually repressive, I don't think most feminist gamers actually do. As far as characterization is concerned, my opponent is correct, in most cases it's quite equal. When it comes to objectification, however, females have it harder than males[1]. The problem is largely the lack of variety and the fact that most female characters in video games only serve as objects to be won, gawked at or to further emphasize the male hero in some way[1][2]. Ironically, some of my opponent's own counter-examples fall into these categories; Lara Croft is largely considered to be one of the biggest sex symbols in gaming despite her creator's intentions[4], Samus has also been portrayed as shallowly written and dependent on male characters (I'm looking at you, Other M!)[5][6], and sex is generally treated immaturely as some kind of prize in the Mass Effect series, degrading everyone involved. The same applies to most female characters in games, this and the fact that the gaming industry tries to appeal to the white, heterosexual male audience is evidence enough that females are portrayed the way they are to reinforce male sexual and self-image fantasies for male players. In case my opponent has any objections to the idea that the industry's mainly focused on appealing to males than females, I'd like to point out the fact that most main, playable characters in game are male. The ridiculous ideas and representations of what masculinity is in gaming is indeed a real problem that has real life consequences on men, but it is not the same problem nor equal to the problems associated with the portrayals of female characters. My opponent is only partially correct about women and employment; while there have certainly been improvements, women still face harassment, lower pay, and discrimination on both conscious and unconscious levels. I don't want to stray too far away from video games or Sarkeesian, but it's necessary in order to illustrate how engraved sexism is in our society. Women don't fair well making it to higher-level management; only 4% of S&P 500's CEO's are female, just over 10% are chief financial officers[7] and over one third of public companies don't even have senior officers who are women[8]. Women also do not make as much as men do, on average males make $7,600 more than women- that's according to Congress' economic fact sheet[9]. I appreciate my opponent's recognition of corporations as cold, inhuman and uncaring entities, but the people who run said corporations are very human and possess flaws like any other person. I can't answer my opponent because I honestly don't know what Sarkeesian did with the other 140K, and can only assume she used it to better the quality of her videos. My only real argument in defense of the amount of money Sarkeesian had made is that she didn't ask for the amount she got and that the people who gave her the money did so freely. As stated in the last round, and in the sources provided, the cost of making a video varies depending on what kind of video is being made and it's quality. Anita's series isn't even finished yet, so it's impossible to determine how much money she's using producing them. I believe my opponent is implying that Sarkeesian might be scamming the people who donated to her videos, but unless he can provide proof it's little more than suspicion based on little to no substantial fact. In regards to the attacks on Sarkeesian being sexist, I'd like to apologize to my opponent. I misinterpreted his position on the last round and never intended to put words into his mouth. Though, now I fear I'm kind of confused by his position. If the threats and insults that were directed at Sarkeesian were in fact directed at the fact she was a woman, then it's obviously sexist. Sexism covers stereotypes and discrimination[10]; just because it's meant to be insulting doesn't make it any less sexist, if anything it makes it more sexist because it's trying to hurt someone's feelings on the basis of their gender. Other than that, I don't really disagree with my opponent on how these kind of behavior is reinforced. I do, however, believe that such behavior has, because of the anonymous nature of the Internet, is in fact fostered. I look forward to my opponent's closing arguments! SOURCES: [1]http://thegamesofchance.blogspot.co.uk... [2]http://www.nytimes.com...; [3](featured video)http://www.youtube.com... [4]http://browse.reticular.info... [5]http://www.g4tv.com... [6]http://www.avclub.com... [7]http://www.bloomberg.com... [8]http://www.catalyst.org... [9]http://www.jec.senate.gov... [10]http://www.merriam-webster.com..."	PRO	574
574	Sfdc0898e-A11691123	Video Games are Art on Par with Motion Pictures.	"***THERE WILL ONLY BE ONE HOUR OF PREP TIME BETWEEN CASES; SO ONLY ACCEPT IF YOU HAVE THE TIME*** Resolution: Resolved: Video Games are Art on Par with Motion Pictures *Note: I expect my opponent to argue that video games are INFERIOR to motion pictures. Definitions: Video Game(s): any of various games played using a microcomputer with a keyboard and often joysticks to manipulate changes or respond to the actions or questions on the screen AND any of various games played using microchip-controlled device, as an arcade machine or hand-held toy. [1] Art: The quality, production, expression, or realm, according to aesthetic principles, of what is beautiful, appealing, or more than ordinary significance [2] AND a vehicle for the expression or communication of emotions and ideas. [3] Par: an equality in value or standing; a level of equality [4] Motion Pictures: a sequence of consecutive pictures of objects photographed in motion by a specially designed camera and thrown on a screen by a projector in such rapid succession as to give the illusion of natural movement AND a play, event, or the like, presented in this form AND the art, technique, or business of producing [such]. [5] Often shortened to ""movies."" It is assumed that Motion Pictures and Television are arts. Rules: The Burden of Proof is shared; or, I have to defend my position, and you have to defend your position. I can't just rebut your arguments and you just can't rebut mine. No Semantics, please! Use in-line citations [7]. Three Rounds, but the first round is just for acceptance. No new arguments in the final round. 8,000 Character limit, although brevity is encouraged. Otherwise, standard rules apply. Sources: [1]http://dictionary.reference.com... [2]http://dictionary.reference.com... [3]http://en.wikipedia.org... [4]http://dictionary.reference.com... [5]http://dictionary.reference.com... [6]like this I hope for a good debate, and may the best debater win."	PRO	575
575	S9af99515-A3564c0ab	should kids under age 12 play violent video games	"I would like to state that currently, Con's argument makes no distinction between violent video games and video games in general, in effect, rendering the ""violent"" aspect of the question useless. If the pro wanted to ask ""Should kids under age 12 play video games,"" then he should have. Thus, I will not be talking about whether or not playing video games or not is better or worse - rather, I will be contrasting the idea of playing video games (violent included), and video games (non-violent only). Therefore, I do not need to give an argument until the Con distinguishes the pros and cons of violent video games vs. non-violent video games. Otherwise, the ""violent"" aspect is used as a double-standard, and the pro will win."	PRO	576
576	S61e968f7-A9bf1bc2c	video games help hand eye coordination	Even if just moving your fingers doesnt help, i simply said video games in general, wii and other motion detector games included	PRO	577
577	Sd46bff47-A36391be7	Video Games Cannot Be Blamed For 'Corrupting' Children.	"Ok pro, please sit down we need to have a serious talk. Now I'm aware that ""attacking the opponent"" is a serious logical fallacy but you know what, I need to get straight to the point. Your argument for lack of a better term, sucks. First of your main argument supports ME, you are supposed to be proving that video games do not corrupt the ""youth"" instead you are basically arguing that retailers should not be selling games to minors. Your argument of blaming the parents for the corruption of youth is invalid and to quote a famous alien ""Highly Illogical"" By saying, and in direct quote ""If games like this are played by children, they will be effected. I understand that it is true, but the fault lies with the parents that let their children play games that clearly aren't suitable for them."" What I bolded is your arguments problem, you fully 100% agree that if children play violent video games THEY WILL BE EFFECTED. Which makes the purpose of this debate no longer nesascary for you agree with me. Your are supposed to be proving video games do not effect youth, im supposed to prove it does. Not the other way around. Also the reason that the game industry gets the bad rap unlike the movie and music industry is because unlike those two, YOU ARE THE CONTROLLER. In sandbox games like GTA the entire game is dictated by your actions, you can play the whole game without the need to kill anyone besides the 1 or 2 story driven missions that require it. Of course, most people, actually everyone will target anyone they see, because its mindless fun, but also because of this they end up feeling less greif and sorrow for attacking innocent bystanders in the game, which will eventually link into real world interactions as I stated before in my previous argument. Also im going to play the ""burden of proof"" card on you, if you can't cite sources how can I know that what you say is true. I will await a response, but please, remember youre supposed to be saying the games are not effecting youth."	CON	578
578	S19e9442f-A644e5121	"This house believes ""Video Games Be Considered a Sport"""	"------------------------------------------------------------------------------Round Two----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Here are some reasons why Video games should be a sport: It actually does require physical skill because you need fast reaction times, muscle memory, and excessive movement. With these factors, it is very competitive. There is a difference between casual, fun games and competitive hard games. It has a major league, that broadcasts live streams of competitions and such, just like any conventional sport. Some may argue that whether something is a sport or not is dictated by whether it induces physical activity. Well, it turns out that more and more virtual reality games are coming out online and in stores, and are requiring gamers to move to control game characters (Such as ingress or Xbox Kinect or the Nintendo Switch). With a new digitized age starting, many conventional sports may be virtualized and turned into games. It is as sport of the mind, similar to chess which many people consider a sport. It is more physically demanding then you would think. You must be able process that situation and react in a limited time. It can challenge your mind and that now in 2016 HTC VR (virtual reality set with hand movement) is out you have to use you body to play a video game. It can also be great exercise too, that means that you will have to practice so you understand how it works. Those who would love to play sports but can""t due to physical conditions (for example, someone in a wheelchair) would be able to partake in a sporting event by playing video games. Right now people watch other people play sports on TV (baseball, football, etc.), so why would watching someone play in a video games tournament be any different? Besides that point, there are already tournaments for big money values and contracts being signed for video game teams now, all that is needed is the government say so that it is officially a sport. Just like any other athletic endeavor, it requires tremendous skill and strategy. It can be played individually or on a team. And serious eSports athletes train for months on end, displaying strong mental focus, quick reaction time, and extreme dedication as they compete. Let's see how big Video games (or E-sports) really are: ""In 10 years' time, it will be as big as NHL,"" leading gamer Olof Kajbjer tells CNN. This was a statement made at Early 2016, and now in early 2017, it has been proved to be FALSE. Can you guess why? It is because of the fact that NHL averages 378 thousand viewers as of 2016 and an average attendance of 18,000 and, though the current number of fans is unknown, as of 2008, NHL claims to have 50 million fans. However, in a survey in 2014, hockey (NHL) and basketball (NBA) were a close 6th and 5th respectively, and the 2016 statistics of Basketball (NBA) was 400 Million fans, so we'll take that as a reference point. In 2016, E-sports had a following of 292 million, and it had actually gone from 204 million to 292 million between 2014 and 2016 -- a 43% increase in just two years and it's projected to exceed 427 million around the world by 2019! That means that in just 2 years it will exceed NBA which exceeds NHL! Furthermore, the E-sport Revenue is expected to smash $1 billion by 2019. It's also worth noting eSports participants now qualify for a US p-1 Visa, henceforth reserved for professional athletes -- ""a watershed moment,"" according to Dustin Beck, vice-president of eSports at Riot Games. This means that professional gamers have already been started to be recognized as professional athletes in the US, and therefore means that authorities around US have started to consider granting Video games the status of ""Sports"" and not just ""E-sports"". Now, Con will probably counter me by saying that you need to physically strain yourself or at least move around for something to qualify as a sport, but then what about chess? Con will probably say that for chess you need to think strategically, but you have to think strategically in video games as well! Furthermore, many Video games such as one on the Nintendo Switch require you to be alert a active! And at that point I rest my case"	PRO	579
579	S8a9fdd6b-Ac560660e	should violent video games be banned	"Neither do I, but just for the sake of this argument, I'll accept the opposing position. While there's little to no evidence supporting the claim that video games cause violence, perhaps there is a case to be made that certain types of violence are unacceptable in games. So I'm mainly going to focus on games that go ""too far"". (I will freely admit that I've moved the goalpost a bit, but I do this because of the lack of evidence on my side of the debate). With the possible exceptions of psychopaths, sociopaths and severe narcisists, everyone has a line they will not cross. Where this line lies is different for each individual, yet there are some subjects that illicit (or would illicit) such outrage from the general public, that banning it might not be such a bad idea. Let's imagine a game that would involve raping children. No matter how much you object to censorship, I doubt that many people would defend a game such as this and would not see banning it as an infringement on free expression. The horror that people will feel when confronted with such a game even existing is enough to override any reservations they might have concerning the banning of a videogame. So, yes, games that overstep certain boundries should be banned if there is a general concensus with the public."	PRO	580
580	S3ca50512-Aedb145ce	Video games have had an overall positive impact on society.	"I believe that video games have had a direct negative impact on our society. First of all, video games have taken the replacement of outdoor activities. Yes, I do understand that there is physical labor in the playing of video games, but outdoor exercise has a more positive effect. Studies show that fresh air stimulates the brain and increases attention, so you can learn better in class. It also regulates your blood pressure. Second of all, video games are very addictive. We can't just look at the physical side of video games. Video games also affect our studies in school. I have met many people that are so addicted to video games that they have been doing bad in class, and I'm pretty sure many other have, too. Video games are like drugs: they can, in a way, control your mind. Human beings were not made to be trapped at home and be immersed in games that do not benefit our future in any way. I am an atheist, yes, but I still believe that human beings have a part in the world, and ""video games"" are not helping that fact."	CON	581
581	Se362974a-A8d6218ae	Video Games have made a positive impact on our everyday lives.	I thank my opponent for accepting my challenge. Now for some specific points: 1. Video games encourage learning and activity Many video games are used as educational tools rather than just education. Some games, including Brain Age, are used to test math and reading skills, and neurologists suggest using the game to prevent Alzheimer's, as seen here (http://ds.ign.com...) and here (http://www.usatoday.com...). Additionally, Wii Fit and Wii Sports encourage fitness, especially Wii Fit, which has been proven to help people lose weight, and is used in physical therapy. (http://videogames.yahoo.com...) 2. Video games improve our technology beyond video games Video game companies are always looking for new technological improvements to get an edge over other companies, such as Nintendo's most recent motion-sensing came console, the Wii. However, such technological advancements do not just show in video games, but also in other industries. I heard from an Anadarko computer scientist about how the graphic cards designed to improve video games is also used to enhance MRI scans and the maps produced by seismic waves so that oil companies can locate oil deposits and find clues to the Earth's geologic past. 3. Video games provide entertainment People play video games because they are fun. People give video games great reviews because they think that they are fun. Here is an example of a happy person who is happy because of a video game: http://www.gamefaqs.com... I don't think I need to explain that one much more. And now, to attack your two points: 4. Video games are no more violent than TV shows and movies A video game rated E is just as violent as a movie rated PG. A video game rated T is just as violent as a movie rated PG-13. Do you have any proof that video games inspire violence. 5. Video games do not encourage obesity Just look at the argument about Wii Sports and Wii Fit, two video games that are designed to fight America's obesity problem. Plus, video games are better than just watching TV, as you are actually moving your fingers, and perhaps your whole body, and diet problems are more likely to lead to obesity. Again, I thank my opponent for participating, and I welcome his response.	PRO	582
582	Sd46bff47-A21415fad	Video Games Cannot Be Blamed For 'Corrupting' Children.	I have seen a lot of headlines recently that basically say video games are bad for children. It actually makes me quite angry, given the age restrictions on games. The video game industry can't be blamed for this, it is bad parenting that is to blame. I was in a Game store last week, and saw children as young as 14 discussing what games to get. One of them bought Bioshock 2, another bought GTA Vice City, and the third bought Prototype 2, all with their parents permission. I own or have played all 3 of these games, and they are definitely not suitable for children of that age, hence the age rating. The average age of gamers is 37 (as of 2011) [1], and the games that are rated 18+ are all aimed at people in that age group. Anybody who is younger than that that is playing such games is only doing so because their parents, or their friends parents don't care about the age rating. [1] http://www.theesa.com...	PRO	583
583	Sa5ca39dc-A90af0193	violent video games do NOT breed violence	"Sorry, the link for the BBC one is bbc.co.uk/2/hi/science/nature/1295920.stm. Just copy and paste it into the browser. If it doesn't work, add the https:// after. The second one, if it doesn't work is http://listverse.com...; don't give me the 404 excuse, because it works fine with me. I know that the 8 year old one may have been removed, but the other ones are still active and working. (Sorry if I'm being a bit too harsh) As http://www.center4research.org..., ""Playing violent video games can increase aggressive thoughts, feelings and behavior in real life, according to two new studies. Violent video games may be more harmful than violent television and movies because they are interactive and engrossing, and they sometimes even require that the person playing identify with the aggressor."" This is true, because most of my friends play GTA, and other games like that, and started swearing. Before, they had a clean vocabulary, but now, they have swear words incorporated into their vocabulary. According to Craig Anderson, (Also from center4research.com) increased exposure to violent video games is associated with higher levels of “aggressive behavior, aggressive cognition, aggressive affect and physiological arousal” as well as a decrease in prosocial behavior or “caring about the welfare and rights of others, feeling concern and empathy for them and acting in ways that benefit others."" Video games are making kids anti-social couch potatoes, and I am also guilty of this myself. When I play on the I-Pad, I completely tune out everyone around me, violent game or not. I don't talk to other people, just focus on playing the game."	CON	584
584	S9500675b-A1319417e	Video Games with Strong Language shouldn't exist.	"I accept the debate and I wish you good luck. ""Video Games with Strong Language shouldn't exist."" Basically I guess this means that pro wants that all games with strong language should be forbidden. I don't think violent games with foul language should be banned just because children might be affected. Well, the same can be said about modern music and movies and even books have foul language. One thing is for sure and that is that games are not for kids only. You mentioned GTA and said its an awful game and yes it is extremely violent and have lots of foul language but its not for kids, GTA is for adults, its designed by adults for adults. The problem is that video games are seen only for kids like toys by media when its not. Its not the state that should ""think of the children"" in this matter but the childrens own parents. Also to forbid foul language in games is a kind of censor and against many countries laws. Also 1000 chars are a bit to few for a good debate. Good luck."	CON	585
585	Sf5624343-Ac302f95f	Fun Argument: Books (Pro) vs Video Games (Con)	1k characters lol. In regards to my opponent's arguments: video games offer those benefits as well. Video games expose you to different concepts and ideas just as much as books do. Video games also offer a lot of different benefits, including benefits that books don't offer such as increased hand-eye coordination and social cooperation (1). Video games have also been shown in correlation with higher test scores across various different subjects (1)(2). So in short, all the benefits my opponent lists for books video games offer as well. Video games offer more exclusive benefits than reading books do. Therefore, video games. Sources: (1) - http://tinyurl.com... (2) - http://tinyurl.com...	CON	586
586	S19e9442f-A31edcac6	"This house believes ""Video Games Be Considered a Sport"""	"Here are some examples for what I meant when I said manipulate, and then I will explain how manipulation of video games is more impactful than the manipulation of sports, such as you said "" bribe the referee"". I play Destiny, and when you get to a boss, there is a number of different attacks, lets say about six or seven, that he/she can cycle through. Once one has figured out how to beat these attacks, you can just do the same thing over in over again, and the boss' strategy will not change, even if they are about to lose. In a sport when the team you are facing realizes something is not working, they will change their strategy to try and win. If your opponent is doing the same thing over and over again even though they will not succeed, then they are easier to beat than an opponent who does change a broken strategy. Another example is when my friend played Pokemon Go, he had a cheat that allowed him to teleport anywhere in the world and find the best Pokemon by putting coordinates into the website. [1] You cannot go wherever you want on a field or chessboard, there are rules and people that will get in your way. Your response to this could be, ""Video games are given the status of sport then they to will be monitored"", but there has been no patch to fix the problem, even though it violates the whole point of the game, getting up and walking around. For your example of ""brib[ing] the referee"", I argue that it only changes one aspect of the game, strategy can still change, even if the rules are not being followed. Also, if it is so obvious that the referee is cheating, then he will suffer consequences, and so will the person that bribed him/her. To that you say ""It is because of the fact that sports are carefully monitored and if Video games are given the status of sport then they to will be monitored"", but why should video games be given status of sport if they have not proven themselves capable of regulation already. They don't deserve it if they have not even showed they can accomplish a crucial requirement. To your second point ""If you are stating this, then you are implying that Video games require no skill"" I will show you that one of the first points I mentioned in round 2 is ""First, video games do require 'fast reaction times, muscle memory, and excessive movement.' "" All I stated is that popularity should not be a determinate because there are things that are popular for little or no reason and if you are trying to make video games a sport it should be a reason argument, not a popularity argument. As you said in round one ""Please use fact rather than opinion in your debate as this a fact based debate."" Popularity - the quality or state of being popular[2] Popular - of or relating to the general public [3] For your final points, the quote means video games are ""in a sense addictive"" and that in a study by ""Traditional Psychology"" in 2011 showed ""showed that the brains of 14-year-old video gamers looked similar to those of adult drug addicts"" [4] To say that they provide any good health benefits that outweigh the negative aspect of addiction would be very difficult then. The similarity in their brains is most likely because ""in the scientific journal Nature in 1998, researchers found that playing video games can release levels of striatal dopamine (aka that feel-good chemical that triggers your reward system) similar to those found in drug users immediately following the injection of amphetamines."" [4] Finally, to say ""where is the Evidence? Where are the statistics? Where are the numbers?"" when I have provided sources for all my outside information is ridiculous. You have made various claims such as ""E-sports had a following of 292 million, and it had actually gone from 204 million to 292 million between 2014 and 2016 -- a 43% increase in just two years and it's projected to exceed 427 million around the world by 2019! That means that in just 2 years it will exceed NBA which exceeds NHL! Furthermore, the E-sport Revenue is expected to smash $1 billion by 2019"", ""serious eSports athletes train for months on end, displaying strong mental focus, quick reaction time, and extreme dedication as they compete"", and ""Furthermore, most games are quite unpredictable as the lines of codes in them often exceed 1,000,000,000 and that means that a single shot in fifa 17 can have 5 different outcomes"" while at the same time you have not cited a single source. How am I supposed to accept this as common knowledge? I am not familiar with the growth and financial projections of eSports, I don't know how much work it takes to become an eSports competitor, and why should I know how intricate the code of Fifa '17 is and how it affects each shot you take? If you want to play that game, it goes both ways my friend. [1] http://www.crossmap.com... [2] https://www.merriam-webster.com... [3] https://www.merriam-webster.com... [4] http://www.lamag.com... (This is the article where I found the studies, and it provides links to the studies if you want to go look at them.)"	CON	587
587	S8769b9cf-A6ee23051	Violent Video games cause desensitization	"point 1 Predator Drones They are shaped like xbox controllers because that's the feel most kids going into the military know and they have great hand eye coordination with them point 2 Violent Video Games Have been around long before the military, they aren't to get soldiers used to killing but to give them an idea what they may expect in the military and as a recruiting tool as people find the games enjoyable. Point 3 Kids Kids have always pretended they were in the army, army men and toy guns have been around for as long as there has been war. Its something thats always been there. Support A study published on Wednesday, February 23, 2011 in Applied Cognitive Psychology suggests ""that in the long run, gamers were just as likely to recall negative images in memory tests and to report the same levels of emotion in reaction to the pictures as the non-gamers."" http://www.nlm.nih.gov..."	CON	588
588	S739f2cb1-A70917960	Video Games are a primary source of violence	"Arguments 4. If video games do cause violence and if it said that the government wants to ban violent games, then they might as well ban professional sports as well. You know? Sports that are extremely popular worldwide? Banning video games because they cause violence,but not ban soccer, hockey, basketball, and football? All the time, there’s an altercation between players in hockey, and the referees stand there, letting them fight each other until it gets out of control. It’s the same thing with basketball and football except it doesn’t happen very frequently and the referees don’t watch them fight. According to an article at Mandatory.com, “The most popular spectator sport in the world (where most countries call it “football”), soccer has incited riots and insane acts of brutality that beat anything football or basketball has to offer.” Referee Decapitated, Brazil (2013) – An article at Deadspin.com has shown that Brazilian soccer fans beheaded a soccer referee after he stabs and kills a player. Quoting: “Last Sunday, an amateur soccer match in Brazil came to an unbelievably gruesome end when a referee was murdered by outraged fans. His head was then cut off and placed on a spike. The beheading was retaliation; the ref initially stabbed a player to death. It happened in the Maranhão region of northeastern Brazil. Thirty-year-old Josenir dos Santos Abreu approached the referee, 20-year-old Otávio Jordão da Silva (pictured above) during a match to argue a call. Abreu reportedly threw a punch at da Silva, who then took out a knife he was carrying with him during the match, and stabbed the player. Abreu died of his wounds en route to the hospital. Meanwhile, the player's friends and family invaded the pitch and attacked da Silva. They reportedly tied up the referee, beat him, stoned him, lynched him, and then quartered him. When they finished, they cut off his head and placed it on a stake in the center of the field. So far, just one man, 27-year-old Luis Moraes Souza, has been arrested for the crime, and authorities are searching for two more. Valter Costa, the chief of police in Maranhão's town of Santa Ines, spoke in a statement. “Reports of witnesses have indicated some people that were in place at the time of the fact,"" he said. ""We will identify and hold accountable all those involved. A crime will never justify another. Actions like this do not collaborate with the legality of a state law.” Kayseri Stadium Riot, Turkey (1967) – Using source #1, the article says, “Soccer violence isn’t a modern invention – fans and players have been doling out the brutality for at least half a century. One of the most insane post-game riots of all time happened in Turkey, at Kayseri Ataturk Stadium. The first league match between Kayseri and Sivas brought 21,000 fans to the stadium, and as the game went on they grew increasingly upset, bombarding Sivas fans with rocks and bricks. The visiting team fans surged to flee the stadium, only to be repulsed by police. Forty people were crushed to death in the melee, with at least 300 more wounded. The game was cancelled, and Sivas supporters hit the streets of Kayseri and destroyed the city’s gym along with over 60 automobiles, burning every car that had a Sivas license plate.” The list goes on and on and on. There’s a list of altercations in sporting events on Wikipedia. Of course, you wouldn’t say that sports are a primary source of violence would you? You wouldn’t come out here and say just because fights occur in sports, that means that sports cause violent acts right? Yeah, didn’t think so. So, why would the media just come out and blatantly state that “video games cause violence.” There’s no evidence to support that claim. So, it is unfair to blame video games for the violence matter while sports, films, and music lyrics (specifically rap) have the exact same basis if not a greater basis of violence. Evidence supporting the “video game causes violence” has been debunked as well. Rebuttals Countering: ""Violence and Aggression are Closely Akin"" Well, yes, agression does sometimes cause violence, but you didn't put in its correct form. You see, what you're saying is that just because a person shows an act of agression, that just comes down to him inevitably committing violence; however, that is incorrect. There is a difference between physically performing a violent act such as hitting, destorying one's property, kicking, killing, etc and thinking agressively. Thinking aggressive thoughts is not the same as violence. Of course, I'm pretty sure you've felt this way before. You've felt the need to physically beat up someone before or break something for whatever reaons. Everyone has. It's human nature. It's one of our natural emotions, anger. Anger is the""strong feeling of annoyance, displeasure, or hostility"". Anger is not the same as violence. I've found a websites that states that there is a difference between anger, violence, and agression. - http://www.humankinetics.com... (""Not all violence comes from anger and reactive aggression. Violence has, at its root, harm to another as its planned result."") Countering: ""Effects of video games on violence are psychologically proven"" and ""The General Aggression Model have expounded the case for violence"" This argument is so errenous for multiple reasons: 1. Just becuse more people prefer violent video games doesn't really mean that video games cause violence. I can say the exact same thing for movies. I can probably say that the majority of movie watchers out here prefer to watch violent entertainment, yet you don't see people killing people primarilybecause they watched X, Y, and Z. According to an article atibnlive.in.com, researchers all over the world have stated that a wide statistic of movie watchers watch gory movies and why they do it. If you read the article, it says, ""Some types of violent portrayals seem to attract audiences because they promise to satisfy truth-seeking motivations by offering meaningful insights into some aspect of the human condition."" 2. The ""research"" and ""studies"" that you used are outdated and they have been DEBUNKED long ago."" According to an article at PBS.org, they list 10 video game facts that have been debunked long ago. If you actually look at it, the verysecond debunked fact is, ""Scientific evidence links violent game play with youth aggression."" (http://www.pbs.org...) The most recent and most in depth study on this matter ever conducted was from Chris Ferguson which has stated that the past studies ""relies on measures to assess aggression that don't correlate with real-world violence. Some studies are observational and don't prove cause and effect."" General Aggression Model: I can see what this model is saying. You see, what this model is correlating to is short term violence. Yes, sometimes long term violence can possibly be present, but 99.999999999% of the time will probably be short term. You see gamers getting angry and they blow off that anger for 10-15 minutes. I don't think this model correctly follows the scenario when gamers play games like Call of Duty, Battlefield, Mortal Kombat, etc. You see, this diagram is saying that people become aggressive and violent because of it's surroundings. However, most of the time, that's not the case. People get angry and frustrated because of the challenge and the competitiveness of games. Most likely, I never hear or see a player get angry because he's looking at blood. How does that make sense? I can say the exact same thing for sports again. I'm pretty sure you've seen coaches yelling at his players have you? Do you know why he's yelling? He's yelling and showing aggression because it's that competiveness that drives him into yelling. He wants to win. He wants to bring the best out ofhis team. Is that the same asviolence? There's nothing wrong with getting stressed because of comepetition and challenge.It's nature.But, again, don't get it twisted. Having an aggressive cognition is not the same as committing to the violent act itself. That's just plain common sense. According to another article from Kataku, ""It's Video Game Competition, Not Violence, That Sparks Aggression"" Countering ""Children inevitably imitates aggression, resorting to violence without supervision"" You've indirectly just proven my point because video games shouldn't take the blame. It's the parent's fault. They lack the supervision and guidance from parents and they are being notresponsible for taking care of their child. What people have failed to realize in this debate is that parental guidance is the #1 factor that determines the child's development throughout his/her life. If that factor is non-existent or lacking, then the child will feel that there are no consequences. This is where this ""I can do whatever I want"" mentality comes from. Yes, children imitates aggression, but it's the parent's responsiblity to teach their child the difference between right from wrong. Sources - http://www.mandatory.com... - http://deadspin.com... - - http://en.wikipedia.org... - - - - - - (This is a funny one) - http://ibnlive.in.com... - http://www.pbs.org... - http://www.humankinetics.com... - http://kotaku.com... I seriosuly don't know what's wrong with this text script. It's screwed up."	CON	589
589	Sd8c3cafd-Aca46631a	Violent video games should not be played by children	"I accept your challenge. To begin, I would like to request that you elaborate on what kind of children you are talking about -- there are many demographics from 3 - 18, After all. For ""Violent video games, "" I will assume you are referring to FPS (First-Person Shooters) according to your 5th graders playing FPS example. For this round, I will also assume the age group you are referring to is anywhere from 10-11, The average age group for 5th graders. All that aside, My stance on this matter is that video games, Even that of violent nature, Are acceptable for children of that age, Who should most certainly know by that age what's right and what's wrong. If they are incapable of determining that by their age, Then it is no longer a matter of video game influence, But rather the lack of proper discipline. My first argument is that many FPS video games -- especially those with historic settings -- can spark curiosity in a young mind. The Assassin's Creed games, For example, Take place in historic settings inspired by elements of actual history. Through those games and others like them, Children can -- and have -- developed deeper understandings of such historic settings, And even more importantly, Develop a curiosity to learn more. I do have other points I would like to share with you, But I would like more information on what this debate is about, For it is, In my opinion, Rather vague."	CON	590
590	Sd08d61c8-A3dd651fb	Video games are benifical to people of every age.	"First of all i would like to thank my opponent for accepting this debate. ""First of all you can do Physical activities and gain more eye-coordination, for this would also help with their health. Here are some examples of how it helps people, promote healthy blood sugar levels to prevent or control diabetes promote bone density to protect against osteoporosis."" I assume you are talking about ""physical activities"". yes they do help and benefit all of these, I'm not suggesting you should completely replace video games with physical activity. Many video games help with this also, not all games involve you just being ""lazy"" as you put it. Such as the Wii fit. http://www.acefitness.org... Games help very much so with social behavior. In many games you have to talk and communicate with other people. Many games even though they are 1 player you still interact with other AI players. Such as fallout 3 where your decisions effect the whole game. If you make choices where the one of the AI character's hate you then you won't be able to get anything from them in the future. Then there is xbox live which is getting more popular by the minute. Just in case you don't no what xbox live is.""(I assume you know what an xbox is)It is where the xbox 360 is connected to the internet and through that you can communicate with people from all over the world. You can play games with other people and all sorts of other things. You can be playing 1 player games and still be in a party(a group of people) with other people and talk to them. The xbox isn't the only console that offers this service the PlayStation 3 and the wii also do there not quite as good in my personal opinion but you can still play with other REAL people. This can lead to people playing with people from there school that they never would have talked to before. I've had this experience myself there are a few preps that i am OK with now at my school because of xbox live. http://seriousgamessource.com... Yes if course there are a few exceptions to everything, but for the most part kids do not get angry playing video games. On the contrary they actually help calm angry kids. What i do when i have a bad day at school and i just want to hit some one in the face i go home and play a first person shooter. It relives stress and stops me from going into school with guns and shooting everyone. Video games don't make you angry with the few exceptions that there are to everything. http://www.neoseeker.com...-/ i Have sited sources to back up each one of my arguments and have countered yours. i believe it is your move next. But how can you trust my opponent no sources and no research did he put into this. I believe he has done nothing but heard vague fake news stories. Like the Columbine for instance. The news reported that they learned to use guns from doom. When in actuality they shot guns at a gun range frequently. This is just one way they have twisted stories to try to make video games look bad there are many more."	PRO	591
591	S2442d956-A5d8044a6	Video games are detrimental to the modern day society.	"I would like to inform you that although, I do not derive any of my arguments from any site and it comes solely from my beliefs, I am sure that at least one person in the world will agree with me on this issue. As to the biased part, I would also like to tell you that humans are all biased on a somewhat way. ""However, the portion of people that are that committed to gaming compared to the rest of the world is extremely small, if not insignificant. After all, how many people do you know that fit your description to the letter? Since it is ""based on"" your own beliefs. I will discuss this point further if my opponent chose to pursue this angle."" How do you know that it is small? Maybe it is not as extreme as I have described it, but I am sure that 25% of the world to somewhat degree, is glued to some technology that interferes with their life. ""So addicted people make excuses such as, ""O, this game is so educational because I learn history in it"". Ok, let's take call of duty 3 as an example. There is a historical background in it which is WWII. However, that's the only thing you know about it. Do you learn about kamikazes suicide to destroy ships? Do you learn about the secret messages and how they communicate?"" Okay, since I am not a fan of such games for my own reasons, I cannot answer your questions. But I don't get the point you're trying to get across. Please reiterate."" It should be fairly easy to understand my dialogue. What I am trying to get across, is the fact that even though some games might seem educational in some ways, 99% of the gameplay is not related to it whatsoever. ""I doubt you negotiate contracts in that video game and the only way you can do so? What, just offer money and players?"" Please don't answer if you do not have the game and have not done any research on it."" 1st hand perspective is always most obvious. Research is not always as reliable as playing the game. Furthermore, stop being a hypocrite. You do not have the game nor the respective console. Also, why would you need to know about football managing if you do not plan on being a team manager? Case closed. Why certainly, here I am ma an educated assumption, when one gets a new game, they would invite their friends over, except for people who doesn't have any because they annoy other people. Sitting and starring at a TV screen, even with friends, is by no means a conversation starter. For huge fans of the Super bowl, they would tare at the screen all the way through. With a Super bowl video game, you are more relaxed and people tend to joke around more often. Of course, that is my opinion for the matter. I don't think you will agree with me, but at lea try to see my point. You're really funny. Instead of trying to be sardonic and directing your insulting comments at me, I prefer you to polish up your logic. So sitting in front of the tv playing the video game is not being a couch potato. Have you ever seen people at the bar or at the stadium? They cheer for their teams and scream so loud. Staring at the tv watching? I think not. On the topic of porn and other illegal things, it is obvious that you do not know as much about the outside world as you should. And here you have no evidence supporting your statement? If young people choose to play it, they are at the discretion of the law. After all, it seems that you think that teens can do whatever they want so long as they don't get caught. Since teens will play it anyway, it is their fault for any actions that happen after. O, so you're saying the teens are the ones that are totally in fault? If there were no games like this, they wouldn't be in that situation would they? It's the same thing as saying the drug dealers are not at fault at all, the ones who buy from them or completely at fault? Furthermore, I never said that they can do whatever they want. People should answer their own conscience and everyone knows what is right and what is wrong. From your sentence, I infer that you also play adult rated games? Kids are vulnerable to violence the most because they are still in development, which is why improper exposure can lead to bad deeds to be done. Blind assumption much? I do not play adult rated games and the most that I play is modern warfare 2 which is m rated. Please sort out our facts before accusing someone of something that they do not do. And you just answered your own question. Kids are vulnerable. Duh, that's why there shouldn't be those video games influencing them? ""The slightest exposure to what it's like to function in a graphical environment will help in such situations. I am not saying that all kids will follow orders and all parents will enforce them, but kids usually know the implication of the games he plays. How many chess games have you played with your friends? Certainly less than when playing a team oriented game where partners must constantly send messages in order to accomplish the goal. You just answered your own question. Games teach kids to follow instructions closely, and as a result, improve their concentration levels. Finally, apparently, you don't understand how video games operate. Clicking are mainly for computer flash games and whatnots. There are different languages for different programs for the computer. I am assuming you are referring to the programming languages. Obviously you cannot expect a kid to understand how to write and execute programs. Kids learn functions such as how to alter the sound effects, adjust graphics, and starting and terminating programs."" I laughed at another blind assumption. So you think that playing online and im'ing can make up for playing a chess game and experiencing the game with your friend right ahead of you? Im'ing does not make up for the invaluable human communication skills that you acquire from playing with your friend and actually looking at him. Clicking is mainly for flash games? How about your little educational games like scrabble and monopoly? Finally, I totally disagree with how games teach kids to following instructions. That is one of the main reasons that video games are bad. You follow instructions and acquire no imagination of your own. You do not need to think, all you do is follow the instructions? People should have their own imagination, their own view of the world. What is the difference between them and a robot then? they just follow a set rule that you must complete in order to level. What is the point of that? The parent will never have total control over what their kid does."" Is this a joke? Are you saying people who have video games die because of them? If you look so favorable upon the past times, why don't you stop playing video games and start making dolls and friends to play with them? Are you saying people after the computers were invented lack the creativity of older generations? I agree that almost all companies are out for the money and does not care about the life's they supposedly ruin like the cigarette companies. Again, I agree that kids are becoming more and more disobedient, but that is the cause of the buying of video games, not the effects of it. This is totally uncalled for. I never said that people who have video games die because of them. That is your own assumption again. And yes I am saying that people who now play video games and just know how to follow a set rule in order to pass a level or the game has a horrible imagination and creativity compared to their ancestors. The people that make the games, yes they have a good imagination, but the ones that play it and are absorbed into the game are the followers, not the leaders. I look forward unto my opponent's next set of arguments but I strongly advise you not to blindly assume things that I never said nor implied. Good day."	PRO	592
592	Sf47d4ad1-A59644527	In general, violence in video games has not caused real-world violence.	"Observation: The resolution is about the impact of violence in video games, not about the impact of video games themselves. What began the controversy: It is obvious that violence has been a major issue in society today. Events such as the school shooting in Newtown and the bombing of the Boston Marathon have made people begin to wonder what exactly pushed the guilty individuals to commit such atrocities. Many people have concluded that one of the major factors that promotes violence today are video games. Jay Rockfeller is one of the activists against video game violence. Minnesota Post explains that Rockfeller introduced a legislation instructing the National Association of Sciences to investigate the effects of violent video games on children, saying, “People believe that violent video games are no more dangerous to young minds than classic literature or Saturday morning cartoons. Parents, pediatricians, and psychologists know better.” (1) The effects of video games on the minds of young children has been studied for years, and the data quite contradicts Rockfeller’s conclusion. What really causes violence in teens: Serious Crimes Adam Lanza, the gunman from the Sandy Hook shooting, played violent video games regularly. This caused many to believe that this is why he committed his violent crime. However, this was not the case. Eric Huey explains, “It turns out that delinquent peers, depression, and an abusive family environment account for actual violence incidents…” (2) Obviously, mental disorders would be another thing that promotes such violence. Here we can see that video games did not compel him (or most other school shooters) to commit the crime. Agression A common argument against violence in video games is that violence in video games cause agression. This is actually not the case. Carol Pichefsky notes that agression is not caused by violent video games; rather, it is caused by a competitive environment (3). So, a game of MarioKart would be just as likely to result in aggression as a game of Call of Duty. This is not exclusive to video games either, competitive sports and competitive debate (especially on this website) are just as likely to result in aggression. So, it is certianly not the violence in video games that causes such feelings. The last thing I would like to note is that aggression and violence are two different things. Agression is an intention. Violence in an action (4). My opponent showing that video games cause aggression is simply not enough. The evidence: If violence in video games have caused violence in the past, it would make sense for the violence rates to go up as video game sales went up. However, just the opposite happened: We can see that as video game sales go up, violent crime went down. Now, I certianly won't argue that video games caused the violent crime to go down, but this evidence certianly makes mockery of the idea that violence in video games has caused real world violence. Conclusion Huey notes (1), ""...these games may seem repugnant but they do not harm the human brain or increase the likelihood of violent acts."" Through the evidence I have presented, we can see that the violence in video games does not cause real world violence. Thus, I take the pro stance on this resolution. (1) http://www.minnpost.com... (2) http://www.sfgate.com... (3) http://www.sfgate.com... (4) http://www.goodtherapy.org...# (5) Chasing the Dream, “The Economist” On to con..."	PRO	593
593	S2442d956-A7ad29254	Video games are detrimental to the modern day society.	"I can see that my opponent has failed to comprehend my argument and is misleading the readers as well. ""Of course there's bound to be at least 1 person who agrees with you. After all, there are nearly 7 billion people on this planet. I'm not saying people are not biased, but facts are not supposed to be. You can't just say something that you believe and pass it as a fact without research."" In a debate, both points of perspective are both opinions, not facts. There are essentially very few things that can be passed as a fact. If you say that you find statistics via researching, how do you know that the number is still the same now? How would you know that it's exact and it can't be a mistake? What's the point of a debate if all you're doing is just copy and pasting ideas from various articles and not putting any of your own personal idea and opinions into it? Then what's the difference between the debate and just copy and pasting words from sources? ""I am sure that 25% of the world to somewhat degree, is glued to some technology that interferes with their life"" Of course people are glued to technology, gadgets such as the watch and weapons and the radio, not so much nowadays, have impacted people all around the world."" This I did not state. Stop forcing words down my throat. ""What I am trying to get across, is the fact that even though some games might seem educational in some ways, 99% of the game play is not related to it whatsoever."" Really? 99% of games are not educational? Where did you learn that? In fact, I have evidence to dispute your 99% non-educational games statistic: Type of Games Played Most Often: 11% (Persistent Multi-Player Universe) 14% (Downloadable games such as Bejeweled) 16% (Action/Sports/Strategy/Role Play) 47% (Puzzle/Board/Game show/Trivia/Card) 12% (Other) Puzzle/Board/Game show/Trivia/Card combines to make a whopping 47% of all games played. Puzzles are certainly educational in that it trains the player to envision the big picture and utilize the smaller pieces. Board games, not so much, encourages socialization from player. Game show games, such as Jeopardy requires you to have an immense amount of knowledge to win. Same goes for trivia games. Card games such as poker and blackjack requires careful consideration from serious players, increasing their ability to strategize better."" You obviously cannot comprehend my statement because you did not read it thoroughly enough. I said the GAMEPLAY of games that seem educational have 99% content that are not educational. For example, take COD 3 which has the background story of WWII. Besides this fact and the opening story, I do not see anywhere that any educational reference is included in the gameplay. Furthermore, the statistics only apply for computer games. ""I do not know much about the outside world""? I think this statement fits you better. All you know about are online games. Did you ever see chess games for consoles in videogame stores? ""1st hand perspective is always most obvious. …Case closed."" Certainly 1st hand perspective is always more obvious, but do you have 1st hand perspective? Have you played through the whole game? Furthermore, if you think video games are detrimental to society, why do you play such things? Face it, life revolves around the little inconspicuous things. People have a tendency, in order to make other people be jealous of them, of being knowledgeable of certain things even though they have not participated in the actual event."" Really, I never said that I had 1st hand perspective and nor do you since the only games you play are online. I have actually played similar football games before so I have a slight idea of it. You, on the other hand, can't have anything to say because you didn't even own any consoles before. ""So sitting in front of the tv playing the video game is not being a couch potato. …I think not."" I have never been to a stadium before because I am poor, and I have never been in a bar since I am not of age yet, so I don't know the exact response to such events. If they don't stare at the screen, how can they know what happened?"" You're funny. So you think people sit on the chair in the bar and just stare quietly at the screen the whole freaking day? Uh no, the obviously order beer and chat loudly. If they're not in the bar, they go to a friend's home to watch the superbowl. And OBVIOUSLY, they do not just sit there the whole entire game. They don't need to go to the bathroom according to you right? Furthermore, staring is not the right word. More like watching. stare-to gaze fixedly and intently, esp. with the eyes wide open. I I seriously doubt that they would fix their eyes intently at their screen eh? ""You think that every kid doesn't watch porn behind their parent's backs or do illegal things? On the topic of porn and other illegal things, it is obvious that you do not know as much about the outside world as you should. And here you have no evidence supporting your statement?"" Certainly not every kid watch porn, some, like in China, cannot because of governmental censorship on search engines, others because they are aware of the consequences of their actions. 42% of youths age 10-17 had constantly seen Internet porn in 2006."" Your statistics are not reliable. 9 out of 10 kids have viewed porn at least once. http://www.temptationseries.com... Furthermore, on this similar note and relating to video games, there are constant ads containing sexual content tempting the use to click it and play the game which usually doesn't have sexual content. A good example of this would be Evony. So you're saying that video games tempting people with sexual ads so that they will spend money and play the game is good? I think not. ""Teens in part are at fault because they are at a point of age where they are forming their own view of the world and can judge their actions adequately most of the time. We can't know completely if whether or not they would be in certain situations if they did not play such video games. It is completely different than dealing drugs. How many illegal drug users create their own animated show?"" How is it different from dealing drugs? You were saying how the company was not at fault for creating inappropriate games so that the teens can play it. So drug dealers are not at fault for selling drugs because the teens apparently should be able to judge their actions? ""But didn't you write that all kids do illegal things behind their parent's back? I would certainly include playing adult rated games as one of them. It is the job of the parent to be responsible for the well being of their children, but unfortunately, that is often not the case. Video games may influence them, as we have concluded previously, but much more things influence kids than video games. Peer-pressure, cultural assimilation, desire to fit in, behavior of adults around them, etc. Furthermore, if you look at this list: All of the top games listed are rated E, with the exception of Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas, which is only #8 and the game that you play, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, which is ranked #16. Violent video games do NOT dominate the industry in any way, shape, or form, until the media puts a spin on it."" I would advise you to not force words down my throat anymore. I did not say ALL children do illegal things behind their parent's back. That is too extreme. Furthermore, so you're saying that the parent should be around the child 24/7 and not go to work? Yes peer pressure influences them, but where do their peers get their ideas? It all goes back to video games. And you obviously did not do any thorough research. The most popular game of the ps3 is Metal Gear Solid 4. There is also Assassin's Creed II, Uncharted 2: Among Thieves, Bioshock, Killzone 2 and much more. Finally, I will conclude with the fact that E games can contain violent content (just no blood). No more room. I sh"	PRO	594
594	S55e10797-A584cca2f	Resolved: Violent video games cause increased aggressive behavior	Hello, 16kadams! I will argue for the case that violent video games do not cause increased aggressive behavior. The burden of proof is on pro; pro is arguing for the contention. == 1. The supposed link is unclear == P1. If there is a clear link between violent video games and violence, pro meets his burden of proof. P2. There is no clear link between violent video games and violence. C. Pro does not meet his burden of proof. Justification for Premise 2: While there are some studies which supposedly demonstrate a link between violence and violent video games, some recent studies suggest that this is not the case: real life environments are different than experimental environments in terms of how they influence people. Research has shown that sometimes violent media correlates with more violence; however, during other time periods, the influence inverts. This shows that the relation between the two is most likely correlation, and not causation. (http://www.sciencedaily.com...) == 2. Violence has been going down, despite the rising popularity of video games == P1. If video games cause violence, then increased popularity of violent video games would increase violence. P2. Violence is decreasing, yet the popularity of violent video games is increasing. C. Video games do not cause violence. Justification for premise 2: despite the fact that the popularity of video games increased between 1990 and 2010, the crime rates actually dropped. (https://commons.wikimedia.org...)(http://www.bjs.gov...) This shows that there is a lack of correlation between the popularity of violent video games and crime rates. By the way, for my case to work, the popularity of video games should have increased over the past years; this is indeed demonstrated by the fact that the video game industry grows by around 16.7% annually. (http://www.forbes.com...)	CON	595
595	Sc4008d1a-A5c5a6151	Violent Video Games Shouldn't Be Banned	I believe that you should be able to buy whatever video game you want (if you are an adult) and that the government telling us what games to play is a bit like a North Korean style approach to the situation (I know this is an exaggeration but think about it...). Anyone believe that they should be banned? Please respond...	PRO	596
596	Sd08d61c8-Af835daa3	Video games are benifical to people of every age.	"First I will go over their case and then my own. He states that it helps with hand eye-coordination and also problem solving. First of all you can do Physical activities and gain more eye-coordination, for this would also help with their health. Here are some examples of how it helps people, promote healthy blood sugar levels to prevent or control diabetes promote bone density to protect against osteoporosis reduce the overall risk of cancer increase levels of HDL or ""good"" cholesterol -reducing the risk of developing heart disease lower high blood pressure-reducing the risk of developing heart disease. Which one would you choose to do be healthily, have good hand eye coordination, and be able to do problem solving, or be lazy and have the negative effects of doing physical activities but still have the hand eye coordination? Saying no to thins will not only help you but keep you fit and happy. Also he gave no warrants or proof of this statement so you can't look to his arguments. And what he said about them becoming more social once again he proves no way that it does. So once again you can't look to him. My case 1st agreement- Practicing violent acts may contribute more to aggressive behavior than passive television watching. Studies do find a relationship between violent television watching and behavior since studies have should that it does cause violent acts then saying that it is ok then we are saying it is ok to do these things 2nd agreement Over-dependence on video games could foster social isolation, as they are often played alone. Playing video games cases these people to become less social since all most all of them are non-social. There for more people will be less social for they will only depend on having friends in a video games and not in really life. 3rd agreement In many violent games, players must become more violent to win. In ""1st person"" violent video games the player may be more affected because he or she controls the game and experiences the action through the eyes of his or her character for these reasons you can't agree that video games can't be helpful. thank you also thanks for the debate it was found to research"	CON	597
597	S6fcc7b94-A532e46a9	Video games lack actual skill.	"Gamers always claim that they have ""mad skills"" on video games. I'd like them to prove how pressing a button is a ""mad skill"". Round 1-First point/accept Round 2-debate Round 3-debate Round 4-debate Round 5-debate"	PRO	598
598	S5ee22d2a-Af79ea57e	Should schools have video games	Having video games at school is educational.It brings in new information it also helps their memory if players are able to memorize the proceed farther into the game they are playing therefor it does help memory.If my opponent thinks it is good not to let children have these benefits then what will happen to all the children out there who love new information. thank you	PRO	599
599	Sd4bb089c-Aa4ea9642	Violent video games lead to violent behaivior	"I see you are still not specifying an age. But until you do, I will stick to children's age. But here is something for you. ""The question of whether children's participation in violent video games can lead to an increase in violent thoughts, emotions and behaviors has been resolved, and the conclusive answer is yes. Studies that have provided this answer are based on statistical comparisons between large groups of children who do or don't play violent video games. "" Also as i stated in my previous statement, why do you think there are ratings for games? Game designers even recognize that violence can influence people, especially children. Thank You. Now your argument."	PRO	600
600	Sd4bb089c-Ae5f5336b	Violent video games lead to violent behaivior	"Studies have shown that when children are introduced to violence of any form the become aggressive, even if the aggression is short-term, it affects the child's personality, and can cause him or her to show that same type of aggression in real life situations. One report states, ""One of the most severe effects of violent video games on children is that the games are addictive and they tend to keep children engaged for a longer period. Many parents must have observed that their child becomes restless if he/ she does not play the specific game for the specific time every day. This can affect the child's mental stability and make him dependent on the game."" Clearly the evidence shows that violence from video games can have devastating effects."	PRO	601
601	S2f5f5fc2-A99384cdf	Video Games Cause Bad Behavior	I was looking through debates and saw this one occur a few times. I looked into them and saw about two that actually went to the final round, even though one of the two had a forfeit. I want this debate to be a mix of facts and opinions to show what we feel and what a wide range of people feel. I stand that video games don't cause bad behavior. This is an acceptance round and I hope you will stick around the entire debate.	CON	602
602	S57837677-A3ae5f70a	Video Games are better than Movies.	I too love video games and movies and but in my belief I find movies more suited for someone like me who enjoys great directing and for a short period I wanted to work in the film industry. I'm looking forward to how you respond to this arguments and remember neither is better is't all personal preference.	CON	603
603	S7f95546c-A1466644f	Video games are not a significant cause of violence in children	"I will thank my opponent for admitting his mistake about the ""Copy & Paste Thing"" in the last round, and also I want to apologize towards my opponent if my attitude seems a little ""aggressive"". It is a debate, and I am playing the role on the side that I am on. Now to my rebuttals against my opponent, and potential new arguments. To begin, my opponent admits about my previous arguments being true. He even said it within the given quote being: ""Yes I have agreed with you on many things. In fact most of your argument is completely true and I know this from experience"". So if my opponent agreed with my previous arguments, did he just ""drop"" this debate? He admitted on my previous arguments and tries to throw in new arguments to make up for it, which actually shows that he is not counter arguing my own arguments, but shows a sign of ""defeat"" in a way. Anyways, besides that statement I will counter argue my opponents new arguments, for the sake of being ""fair"" within the debate. My opponent begins using sources, which is kind of too late when you start the 4th out of 5 rounds, about how video games cause violence. When I previously mentioned, and my opponent refused to look at, that violence is not all about criminal acts. Violence can be an emotion, which kids do receive after playing a game for at least 40 minutes; stated in my previous argument. Following along with the statement that violence is not all about actions, violence can also cause anger in a child's emotion. My opponent brought up a statistic, previously used, that 71.9% dropped in juvenile arrests because of video games increasing in sales. That is great and all, but how do you know they are not violent at home? Since the definition of violence can be an angry emotion, who doesn't say that the consumers don't get violent once in a while stay their home? Stated in a previous argument, 70% of kids prefer to stay inside than outside; meaning less possible actions on the outside world. Your example being criminal actions, but who does not say they reveal their violence inside their own home? Either in anger, or like the definition of your view on violence, within the privacy of home? My opponent clearly does not really add any new points within the argument. While I, admittedly, didn't either; however, my opponent admitted on my previous arguments of being true, so no point in adding more arguments if my opponent ""dropped"" the debate. As well as did not define the term ""violence"" within the first round of the debate; where violence can now mean two different meanings. To conclude this argument, video games do, technically, cause violence within children and teens who play it for a little bit. Not in the way of ""violent"" or ""criminal actions"", but in the way of anger towards others and him or herself. Sources: www.pamf.org/parenting-teens/general/media-web/violentgames.html www.rootsofaction.com/video-games-for-kids-more-good-than-bad-for-development/ www.focusonthefamily.com/parenting/protecting-your-family/parents-guide-to-video-games/hooked-the-addictive www.dana.org/Cerebrum/2009/Video_Games_Affect_the_Brain%E2%80%94for_Better_and_Worse/ www.venturebeat.com/2011/09/12/global-ad-spending-in-video-games-to-top-7-2b-in-2016/ www.addictionrecov.org/Addictions/?AID=45 www.statista.com/topics/868/video-games/ www.cliffsnotes.com/sciences/sociology/contemporary-mass-media/the-role-and-influence-of-mass-media"	CON	604
604	S74862f47-A902b61e3	Video games should be censored	"Actually, you are wrong. Nintendo does have first amendment rights. Why do they? Because they have an administration office (or HQ, whichever you prefer) specifically for America. So they do have the right to freedom of speech. Nintendo also isn't only a game DEVELOPER, it's a parent company. If your wondering what a parent company is, it's a company that starts up another corporation (subsidiary corporation), and the original (parent) company itself owns the shares of the subsidiary. The individual shareholders of the parent own the subsidiary, but indirectly. They are not, themselves, shareholders in the subsidiary -- the parent owns the shares. The one difference is that Nintendo doesn't start a corporation it provides advertisement and other services to the game producer. And, as it states below, Nintendo DOES already have censorship regulations, and it will not promote any game that does not meet these standards. I have found the following at: ~http://www.filibustercartoons.com...~ ""The following Game Content Guidelines are presented for assistance in the development of authorized game paks (i.e., both Nintendo and licensee game paks) by defining the type of content and themes inconsistent with Nintendo's corporate and marketing philosophy. Although exceptions may be made to preserve the content of a game, Nintendo will not approve games for the NES, Game Boy or Super NES systems (i.e., audio-visual work, packaging, and instruction manuals) which: • include sexually suggestive or explicit content including rape and/or nudity; (1) • contain language or depiction which specifically denigrates members of either sex; (2) • depict random, gratuitous, and/or excessive violence; (3) • depict graphic illustration of death; (4) • depict domestic violence and/or abuse; (5) • depict excessive force in a sports game beyond what is inherent in actual contact sports; (6) • reflect ethnic, religious, nationalistic, or sexual stereotypes of language; this includes symbols that are related to any type of racial, religious, nationalistic, or ethnic group, such as crosses, pentagrams, God, Gods (Roman mythological gods are acceptable), Satan, hell, Buddha; (7) • use profanity or obscenity in any form or incorporate language or gestures that could be offensive by prevailing public standards and tastes; (8) • incorporate or encourage the use of illegal drugs, smoking materials, and/or alcohol (Nintendo does not allow a beer or cigarette ad to be placed on an arena, stadium or playing field wall, or fence in a sports game); (9) • include subliminal political messages or overt political statements (10)"" The censorship regulations here proves that games are already being censored, and that it is up to the companies who manufacture and advertise the games to decide whether they should be censored. In short, companies have the right to make any game they want because THEY ARE PROTECTED UNDER THE FIRST AMENDMENT. Which blatantly proves that GAMES SHOULD NOT AND CANNOT BE CENSORED UNLESS IT IS PREDETERMINED BY THE SPECIFIC PARTY! My opponent also states that we abuse and overlook ratings. Well that may be true for some of us, but at SEARS they have a policy that if you do not have an adult (over 17 years of age) with you at the time of purchase, then you cannot buy an M rated game which shows there is a restriction on who can buy them. And any way plenty of parents look over games ratings before buying them, I know mine do, and like you said they have a choice and if they choose not to then they probably don't care if their kids and teens are playing games that have such ratings, which is OK if that is their stance. And let me state that my opponent, although he has done a good job at trying to deter my case has not put forward one piece of evidence, but instead used assumptions, like when he said ""there is no restriction to who can buy them"" them being video games, to prove his point. Because of the evidence and points that I have presented that I firmly stand Con."	CON	605
605	S758ea5f9-Ab17af4aa	Are Video Games the main cause for Violent Juvenile Crimes	Do you even look at what you are posting? Were in that argument does it mention anything relevant to the question once again. Please just leave this argument as all you have been doing is commenting with copy and pastes and not showing your own facts. I don't believe you have actually commented one word which is not a copy and paste. Playing violent video games reduces violence in adolescent boys by serving as a substitute for rough and tumble play. Playing violent video games allows adolescent boys to express aggression and establish status in the peer group without causing physical harm.	CON	606
606	S758ea5f9-Adb37a403	Are Video Games the main cause for Violent Juvenile Crimes	"From what I have seen in that post you have utterly copied and pasted a whole entire website page which shows you are obviously avoiding the question, the question is "" Are Video Games the main cause for Violent Juvenile Crimes "" A causal link between violent video games and violent behavior has not been proven. Many studies suffer from design flaws and use unreliable measures of violence and aggression such as noise blast tests. Thoughts about aggression have been confused with aggressive behavior, and there is a lack of studies that follow children over long periods of time."	CON	607
607	S6ba1043a-Adfb9a028	Religion causes more violence than video games	You are only helping me with your religion crap. Then what started wars? Fight just to fight? ISIS kills others for their religion. Wars start because someone's religion says to destroy or kill people. Others try to defend off those people who destroy or kill people for their religion. Explain that with video games. You can't because no war, battles, or fights has happened with children with video games. It's because of religion. Everything is because of ether religion of science. Violence happens because of religion.	PRO	608
608	S4846a6c1-A2e82771	Movies are better than video games	Video games are works of art. They entertain, bring families together and best of all they are addictive. Something draws your towards a game , that an film or an book can not. For example Black Ops 3, the most frequently bought in game stories throughout England for the whole of 2015. both more often then any other film. This is the start of my argument Good Luck !! Reply When You Can x x x	CON	609
609	S874a4709-A98b91332	Video Games Are the best and can help you learn	Video Games are fun and they in fact are more helpful than you think. I get why some people think they harm your brain but indeed that is true but they also help your brain. If you play a video game like first person shooters they in fact will corrupt your mind and you will lose brain cells, but they also help increase hand, eye coordination and reflexes. Some video games are actually meant for educational purposes but think about it you might be losing a couple of brain cells but you also gain more hand skill. I see why you are against them but try it your reflexes will get faster and you will see some hand, eye coordination growth.	PRO	610
610	Sf6d610e8-Abfedfdc0	The playing of video games has done more harm than good to society.	"Though the positive effects of video games are woefully low in stature and usefulness, the negative effects as listed above are overblown to say the least. In your argument you state that ""these numerous shootings which are closely linked to the playing of video games"". While video games may play a minute role in the path of action to which the shooters took, all of the perpetrators of the recent shootings were mentally ill in some way. For example, Adam Lanza, the shooter in Sandy Hook, had a history of anxiety, depression, and crippling OCD starting around the age of 12. [1] As for your argument about video games being addictive, some studies have shown that video games can be addictive chemically, but others suggest that physiological trait may play a role in those who get addicted to video games, in that those who are inherently more susceptible to addiction than others. [2] Also, what evidence do you have fore the statement that ""The mentally unbalance people having descended into this mental state due to excessive playing of video games"", as this implies that shooters were driven to act on their thoughts by video games exclusively, and not just their mental instability. Moreover, in the more common cases of those who blow off their schoolwork to play video games, those individuals who's grades dip will almost certainly be confronted by a professor or a parent concerned that they might be playing to much. Even if this hypothetical vacuum of influence were real, the child who forgoes obligations to play video games is at fault. It is not the video game that made the child skip schoolwork or chores, it was the child alone who made the decision. Again, in your paragraph where you mention the US and South Korea, you run on the assumption that those who play video games at an extreme and arguably unhealthy level are encounter resistance from a peer, spouse, family member, or teacher, assuming that they do not at any point realize that what they are doing is detrimental to their lives and get help by themselves. As for the quote from the Devin Thompson, even though he attributed his actions to GTA: Vice City, ensuing investigations uncovered a long history of physical and mental abuse he suffered as a child. [3] Such mental scars run deeper than those that are physical, and they can seriously call the decision-making ability of any individual into question. In conclusion, in those cases where individuals acted heinously who also frequented the digital realms of video games, in almost all of those cases, there was an underlying cause other than the video games. As for cases of addiction, the assumption that those who isolate themselves in video games have nobody in their lives to help them or that they cannot help themselves is a ludicrous proposition to say the leas [1]http://articles.courant.com... [2]http://www.video-game-addiction.org... [3]http://murderpedia.org..."	CON	611
611	Sd672d38d-A72a95be3	Violent Video games should be ban	"How about this. http://en.wikipedia.org... and this http://news.bbc.co.uk... Thai newspapers say the teenager, whose name has been withheld, was arrested while trying to steer a cab backwards out of a Bangkok street with the driver still in the back seat. Police claim the 18-year-old confessed to stealing the taxi and said he kille Bangkok police ""He wanted money to play the game. His parents, who work as civil servants, did not have enough money to give him."" Thailand's Culture Ministry has recently been pushing for tougher regulation of games like Grand Theft Auto. It wants stricter age ratings and restrictions on the hours that people can play games in arcades. Ladda Thangsupachai, director of the ministry's Cultural Surveillance Centre, said: ""This time-bomb has already exploded and the situation could get worse. Today it is a cab driver, but tomd the 54-year-old driver after he fought back. The teenager could face the death penalty if he is found guilty. Bangkok police Captain Veerarit Pipatanasak said: ""He wanted to find out if it was as easy in real life to rob a taxi as it was in the game. He wanted to find out if it was as easy in real life to rob a taxi as it was in the game. Captain Veerarit Pipatanasakorrow it could be a video game shop owner."" THIS PROVES THAT VIOLENT VIDEO GAMES SHOULD BE BANNED"	PRO	612
612	Se170e8b7-A56485c5f	video games really cause bad behaviour in children	In my opinion, video games are not ALWAYS causing bad behaviour in children. Video games have classifications for ages, in this case parents/guardians should be aware which classification the game their children are playing is classified to be at their aged appropriate level ! If parents/guardians know what their children are playing, and they are aware it could lead to futher attention/notice, then they were warned that their children may or may NOT follow the example set before them! What if the game is not all that violent, then is it still causing bad behaivour in children? In this case, (in my opinion) the game is not causing any bad behaviour/bad examples to demonstrate to the children. ! :))))	CON	613
613	S2a9f4151-Aa6fdadfd	Video games(Pro) vs books (con)	In conclusion, video games are better than books.	PRO	614
614	S7f02efbf-A22c13d1c	Playing violent video games make people more violent.	"I will accept your debate to help you prepare although I feel the same way I will try my hardest to disprove the theory that this is true or if it is even proven the fact that video games do not make people violent. Why do they say violent video games make people violent? The reason for this is because of the fact that people that play violent video games get so addicted to these violent video games that they lose themselves in these video games and lose between what's real and what's fake Not everyone can handle violent video games. That is why violent video games are suppose to be for a mature audience. (17+) http://www.nytimes.com... If the person is correct on this article that and I quote - ""The young men who opened fire at Columbine High School, at the movie theater in Aurora, Colo., and in other massacres had this in common: they were video gamers who seemed to be acting out some dark digital fantasy. It was as if all that exposure to computerized violence gave them the idea to go on a rampage "" or at least fueled their urges."" Then that could prove something there although he goes more into detail that studies have shown it is unsure about the fact that video games were the result of this. However people can get lost in what is real and what is fake. These are paradox's http://dictionary.reference.com... par""a""dox [par-uh-doks] Show IPA noun 1. a statement or proposition that seems self-contradictory or absurd but in reality expresses a possible truth. 2. a self-contradictory and false proposition. 3. any person, thing, or situation exhibiting an apparently contradictory nature. 4. an opinion or statement contrary to commonly accepted opinion. http://www.wired.com... This suggests there really is a conclusion to this yet and more research has to be done. US president Obama Proposes funding for game violence studies. This article summaries the top 25 studies for violent video games that dates back to the 80s http://kotaku.com... Look at these studies and the conclusions. Some showed after playing violent games there are no difference from playing regular games without violence. Other tests showed teenagers acted out more aggressively after playing violent video games."	PRO	615
615	S2442d956-A3d5c65c1	Video games are detrimental to the modern day society.	"Most of your statements are misleading and full of incorrect data. First of all, my phrases were completely comprehendable and the reason you misunderstood it is that apparently, you don't know the meaning of gameplay and somehow substitute or games -_- Now back to the argument: ""Certainly debates are about opinions, but the opinions have to be justified by facts. The difference is that a debate is, by definition a discussion in which reasons are advanced for and against some proposition or proposal. First of all, I had clicked on your links. They do not show anything since for example, the wikipedia link shows the main page of wikipedia -_-. I never said that I disagreed with supporting opinions with justifying facts. The only thing that I found a problem in was that you were pretty much repeating everything that the sites were stating, therefore, not revealing your true opinion on the matter. ""'I am sure that 25% of the world to somewhat degree, is glued to some technology that interferes with their life' This I did not state. Stop forcing words down my throat."" Are you sure, after all, I did copy and pasted that statement from Round 3."" Fine, I see it. I'm pretty sure it's a glitch because I never used the word ""glued"" before ever. ""You obviously cannot comprehend my statement because you did not read it thoroughly enough. …Did you ever see chess games for consoles in videogame stores?"" Okay, let me revise my statement, you say game play of games that seem educational are 99% not educational, right? But doesn't a game like COD 3 help you more than just by telling the brief history of WWII? It helps: - social skills- you have to communicate efficiently - teamwork- you need to work together - tactic work- you have to strategize your plan for the mission - reflexes- you have to react fast in such games - concentration- you need to focus on the task at hand - management skills- you have to travel and battle efficiently and it also helps you to prepare for war etc."" Sorry to tell you, but you just humiliated and made yourself look like a fool. You claim that you play the wii every day, yet you don't know that there is no multiplayer for Cod3 on the wii? You never bothered to research did you? Okay I actually played Cod3 a year or two ago, so I have a more reliable source than you. Besides telling you a brief history of WWII, COD3 teaches you how to point your wii remote at the enemy and click. There is none of the above related to it since it does not have multiplayer, therefore you basically just follow your ""team"" and go kill the computer enemy. If you are talking about the wii on the xbox which has multiplayer, I can tell you from my experience of playing modern warfare 2 (COD6) on the p3 that you are also very wrong. There is social skills necessary, yes it is possible to communicate by talking in the headset or whatever, but in my 200 or so games that I have played, the people rarely every talk, and when they do, they talk about going to their friend's house. Not much communication eh? So you call groups of people randomly dispersing and killing the enemies teamwork? O fine, your comrade gets killed and then you kill enemy because they're off guard. That's teamwork right? :P REFLEXES? You're kidding? People just spring around either sniping, spraying, or stealth. Reflexes? You'll be dead before you have a chance to use your incredible ""reflex"" skills. Concentration? What do you mean by that. I think that you wouldn't call me laying down on my bed and lazily click buttons concentration right? Furthermore, I doubt most people would be ""staring at the screen intently"". Management. Not really the right word for moving around and killing successfully but that's the closest you're getting to the game. Congratulations! ""Yes, in fact, I saw several chess games when I went to Game Stop on Thursday with my friends when we wanted to buy controllers for his Xbox."" The only chess game you'll find are ones for pc. That's about as ever as you will get to one of those dumb games -_- ""Obviously you don't know me that well. Just because I don't own any consoles doesn't mean I don't play video games. As I have said, just last Saturday, I went to my friend's house to play Dragon Age: Origins for the whole day. Almost every Sunday afternoon, my family would go visit my dad's friend and I would play on his Wii."" You go to your friend's house and play his console. Uh so? I go to my friend's house and take turns playing his ps2. Your point? I never said that you didn't play video games. I know that you don't have consoles though. Furthermore, Dragon Age: Origins is an M-rated game, so have fun telling me that children shouldn't be playing M games. ""Beside, they just stay in the bar getting drunk and watching the Superbowl for 4 hours, then what? Celebrate their teams winning by getting more intoxicated or lug home defeated. They can, however, go home with friend and continue the excitement by playing the video game of their favorite sport."" You're so amusing bro, honestly. Since when did drinking cups of beer get you drunk? How do you know that everyone will get drunk. Also, people can go to their friend's home and enjoy with them watching the superbowl without drinking beer if you like that? O, and according to you, apparently seeing FAKE people play FAKE football is so much more amusing than watching REAL people play REAL football, eh? ""When did I say that video games that tempt people with sexual ads so they will spend money and play the game are good? But we are not debating about the nature of the advertisement of video games, just whether or not the games themselves are detrimental to society."" You obviously do not get the idea. You see the company showing sexual ads, and you think that company is good? Obviously not. And then its that company that makes the game, so how appropriate will you think it'll be? Also, lots of people play the game BECAUSE the see the sexual ads and hope to see those same content in the game. Not detrimental eh? ""People play violent games because they choose to play, don't you agree? You can't force someone to play violent games if they don't want to right? Freedom of choice. I did not say the company is not entirely at fault, after all, humans are corruptible. And most secular people aim for materialistic things, right? What better way to gain ownership of such things then to buy it with money? By targeting the most vulnerable age groups: children. But since we are not arguing about how the gaming industry is detrimental to society"" And apparently you repeat the same mistake. If the gaming industry is detrimental to the society and it is they that make the games, you think the games won't be detrimental? Let us take out the words every kid (e + k) and since the synonym for every is all (e = a), so by the substitution postulate, every kid equal all kid (e + k = a + k). The influence of peer pressure not only trace back to video games, it is also influenced by TV and the people older than them. When I did my research, I did not look solely on the games for PS3, but the rank of all console based games."" Buddy, this ain't math class. Leave your ""smart brain"" (if you had one you wouldn't be talking crap like this in a freaking debate about the effects of video games) for someone that actually cares. Also, where do you think the ""adults"" with a child brain gets the ideas from? Video games and TV. Fine, you want the top games of 2009? Let's see: the only ""not violent"" games super mario world and Zelda. wanna know the rest? Resident Evil, Cod4, Halo, WoW (have fun paying every month for this game), sically everything violent :D So, in conclusion, I still see that video games can be detrimental to our society especially when people are addicted. p.s. I know this is very hard for you with your big ego, but try not to brag that you go to a ""prestigious school"" since Stuy was no"	PRO	616
616	Sf2f51256-A6d79dfac	Video games cause more harm than good	I would like to conclude with a few ideas. My opponent clearly presents that video games are requiring more physical activity. I refuted that because physical activity is not the norm, and the virtual physical activity is not as beneficial as imperial physical activity. My opponent forfeited rounds 3 and 4 which causes a full 7 point vote in my favor to be acceptable under the DDO rules. If my opponent had anything to refute of my arguments, he could have refuted them during the forfeited rounds, he was certainly online during the debate period. I know because I checked periodically. Although there is some good that comes from video games, They are consistently more harmful to society then beneficial, and my opponent showed no social benefit. Even though I provided several detriments which far out weigh the small amount of benefit they provide. What information he did provide, I refuted. He says video games are a good way to make money. I proved that was unrealistic.	PRO	617
617	S3ca50531-A85c84f09	Video games have had an overall positive impact on society.	"All of my contentions have apparently been conceded. My opponent's sole case is that his one contention of a negative effect drowns out all of my positive effects. I disagree with some of my opponent's claims. ""3. Declines in verbal memory performance"" Video games often require the player to memorize things, which would lead to an increase in memorization skills. ""4. Somatic complaints"" http://en.wikipedia.org... Huh? ""6. Detrimental school performance (as video game usage increases, GPA and SAT scores decrease)"" Not if a kid starts playing educational video games at a young age. ""9. Modifications in visual selective attention"" Modifications do not imply negative effect. ""'Video games are also harmful in other ways such as bad examples of how to treat woman as men are more likely to play videogames. There is cause to be concerned about the impact of violent video games. Parents need to be aware of the content of the games their kids are playing, and use the video game rating system wisely. Parents should also talk to their kids about the themes and storylines of these games, and stay on the alert for any behavioral red flags that may indicate a problem.'"" This one solution solves the negative impact. There is a rating system that allows parents to control the games their kids play through parental controls. http://en.wikipedia.org... Also, violence caused by video games is a myth spread by the media. http://www.livescience.com... http://www.gamerevolution.com... Furthermore, if you look at this list: http://en.wikipedia.org... All of the games listed are rated E, with the exception of Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas, which is only #16. Violent video games do NOT dominate the industry in any way, shape, or form, until the media puts a spin on it. Furthermore, the pros far outweigh some teenagers becoming slightly more susceptible to dangerous activity: 1. Many kids benefit from educational video games far more than teenagers don't. 2. Video games have improved our technology for more accurate MRI and X-ray scans, and have improved the oil industry. 3. Video games are used for physical therapy and flight and war simulations. 4. Video games have improved dexterity, and allowed surgeons to save more LIVES. 5. http://en.wikipedia.org... 6. Video games are entertaining."	PRO	618
618	Sdc226c19-A420531bb	Video Games Cause Real-World Violence	"Well, you are contradicting with yourself now. ""Video Games Cause Real-World Violence"" is the topic. You are con so you are against this, meaning you defend there being 0 circumstances of video games causing violence. Then you say: ""..you will always be able to find someone that committed an act of violence because of whatever you can imagine.."". ""people have killed people over loud music. Does that mean that loud music causes violence? No!"" Sorry, but that is a terrible example. In this case, the music is not the thing that annoys the person, the thing that annoys the person is the people listening to music loudly. The cause here is of course not music, it is the people who play loud music. If someone gets excited over a rock music and starts a killing spree though, then we can say ""the music caused the violence."". Even if you claim that the man had mental health problems, the thing that triggered him is the music so ultimately, the music caused it. The same logic can be applied to video games. Again, what I am doing here is taking advantage of the way that the topic is worded. If you had worded it properly, I wouldn't even accept the debate as winning would be pretty impossible."	PRO	619
619	Sf0a808a4-Aa2807bcc	Video-Games Are Beneficial Towards Children	I think you are not getting the point. I said video games are beneficial to children and not to the point that no other activity can compare. I know that I just contradicted yourself, but so have you, so now we are even. Comparing the literature in books to video games is like comparing copper to diamond; it just doesn't work like that. Also, like I said, only the more mature rated or mature oriented video games actually have any sort of complex language. Games that are meant for casual or non-gamers, young children, or that use little to no text are not meant for children to develop reading skills. Yeah, I know that mature rated games are inappropriate, but mature oriented surely isn't (i.e., Metroid and Super Smash Bros.) Now about Minecraft being compared to Legos. Lego actually does not have nearly enough shades and textures as Legos. Does Legos have every single shade that is part of the CMYK or light spectrum? I don't think so. Neither does Minecraft, but it's still alot compared to Lego. As for the textures, there are many different textures for the blocks alone; I'm not even going to mention the textures for the characters, items, monsters, and weapons as that would take forever. Just for the generic block alone, there are textures (or shades) of every color of the color wheel/rainbow and there are textures for every material/resource available, which include wood, stone, sand, water, lava, snow, bed-rock, diamond, coal, steel, dirt, grass, leaves, glass, and much much more. When I mean moving the character, I mean moving the character and the camera simultaneously, not something the average person can easily do. Pressing the arrow keys or the W, A, S, D keys alone is pretty easy to pull off, but that alone cannot allow you to move the character. You must also take the camera into consideration as pressing the left and right commands only makes you shift left and right. You do not actually turn around or rotate and start moving in that direction. That's why you must use both simultaneously; and believe me, try to only use the moving keys and not using the mouse to move - you will most likely fail in survival mode or build oddly-shaped things in creative mode for not controlling the character properly. There are also other things that you must do in order to succeed or to play Minecraft to the fullest. Like I don't know, maybe trying to stay full from hunting animals and eating plants; trying to avoid and/or kill the monsters that lurk out at night; trying to build structures that are only limited by your imagination (Lego can never do that, it is limited to the amount of blocks you have); knowing how to use mods to mess around with it (mods are allowed and are actually provided by Mojang themselves); avoiding places or things that can deplete your health; gathering resources to build a shelter, weapons, and other useful stuff to stay alive at night; and so much more stuff that not even the most hardcore of Minecraft gamers know about yet?	PRO	620
620	Sa6e1c16c-Ab86f4b75	Should violent video games be banned	It's alright, I understand the late response. Violent video games should absolutely be banned. Not only is the concept in some cases disturbing, certainly for someone twelve years of age or younger, this may promote violent tendencies and use of swearing. Swearing is is vulgar and shouldn't be shown to such young children.	PRO	621
621	S69bf66d1-Adeeaa47c	Anita Sarkeesian and Women in Video Games	"I'll disagree with you. Her video series is accomplishing little and does not have a positive effect. Rather, it seems to enrage gamers, if the internet is to be believed, that someone is attacking the games that they enjoy for not catering to her ideal. I'm not sure what the point of your second paragraph is, but I'll contend that the group attacking her was necessarily sexists, or that it was a small group. Rather, she claimed in an interview with CNN that it was a ""cyber mob"" and that ""thousands of individuals"" came after her[1]. Whether you believe her is another issue, but I'd ask you the question: Do you think that there would be analogous backlash by gamers if a muslim apologist created a vlog series about the role of Islam in video games, and not only wanted games to change to be more friendly to his religion, but called anyone who disagreed with him an Islamophobe? Because it seems to me that the ones who attacked Sarkeesian were doing it because she tried to bring feminism into something where feminism is ill-suited, and an area where nobody really cares about real-world issues save for her and her followers. Just as a side note: Anita's website slogan is ""Conversations with Pop Culture"", despite her closing her comments and ratings. For someone with such a motto, she seems remarkably uninterested in discussion. I know she was threatened and I know she was insulted. She does have the right to do that as well; she's a private enterprise. However, I'm not sure why Anita would take any of these threats seriously. They are internet threats. Spend 3 hours playing Call of Duty online and you'll get, I guarantee, more than a few threats to rape you/your mother/your sister. Even one of the Call of Duty developers got hundreds of threats every hour when he implemented a hotfix that downgraded the power of some guns in the game[2]. To quote Will McAvoy on HBO's The Newsroom: ""Nobody who is serious about killing you sends you a note beforehand to warn you"". The internet's made it very easy for people to grow spines and insult others without fear of retaliation, and its also escalated the insults that we use from ""idiot"" or ""moron"" to ""f*cking d*ucheface"" and ""c*ntnozzle"", among other, more colourful ones. When you're lobbing from the back seats in the stands, and you're standing in a mob, its much easier to throw the tomatoes at the stage then if you're sitting in the first row. [1]: (see video) http://www.youtube.com... [2]: http://www.digitaltrends.com..."	CON	622
622	Saf4a656-A6140ed36	Resolved: Video Games should not have sequels as a matter of principle	Note: Because I have the luxury of making refutations/defenses last, I will only post my case here, in true PF debate style. Framework First, I shall offer a framework for the round based on an analysis of the resolution and debate theory. Following established theory in debate, the burden of proof (BOP) rests entirely on Pro with this resolution, as he is attempting to defend a positive, active proposition: that video games should not have sequels as a matter of principle. In other words, he is arguing that by principle video games should, actively, not have sequels due to a principle. What this means is that when judging the debate, you should not frame it such that I am defending the proposition that video games should have sequels, but rather that I am simply negating the proposition offered by Pro. In other words, it is my position that video games should not necessarily not have sequels as a matter of principle. Looking to the resolution, we can see that the resolution specifies that video games should not have sequels based on principle. Following the definition of principle, as a rule, and applying it to the video game industry itself, the following framework can be given by which to judge the debate: unless Pro can prove that the video game industry should not make sequels for video games across the board (and thereby following the rule governing its behavior, as the definition of “principle,” stipulates), Pro has not fulfilled his BOP and upheld the resolution in its entirety, and therefore cannot win the debate. However, even though the BOP for this debate, as above analysis reflects, is on Pro, I offer the following contentions to support negation of the resolution. Contention 1a - Video games are an art form and should be treated as such. Although the debate about the artistic merit of video games has raged on for years, the fact of the matter is that it is becoming more and more conclusive, despite the arguments raised by critics such as the late Roger Ebert, that video games are definitively a form of art and artistic expression, with more and more outside sources agreeing. In May of 2011, for example, the National Endowment for the Arts made video games eligible for artistic funding, essentially establishing legal precedent for video games as art [1]. Further, in a decision made only a month later by the Supreme Court of the United States secured the status of video games as a protected form of expression under the First Amendment [2]. Clearly, externally, games are becoming accepted as art. However, even within the video game community, games are becoming widely hailed as artistic, as an article from Game Informer demonstrates, with eight games discussed in detail as examples of art [3]. In short, video games are art, and due to their status, they should be valued as art. Contention 1b - Art uses sequels effectively, and the same can be said for video games. But, to the point of the resolution, sequels are used widely within the artistic world quite effectively, to develop themes more effectively. For instance, in JK Rowling’s Harry Potter series, she uses a total of 7 books, 6 sequels, to create not only a generally acclaimed large story arc, but to create things such as nuanced characterization and development of themes like love and death, all while developing her use of The Hero’s Cycle. The animated film studio Pixar developed a highly emotional and heartwarming story with their Toy Story trilogy, developing in a similar fashion themes of acceptance and coming of age, while developing a large, epic story. And, video games being an art form should be allowed the same liberties as other art forms. Further, there are myriad examples of video game sequels that are artistically meritous and effective. Irrational’s BioShock 2 (B2) and BioShock: Infinite (B3) expand on the themes of BioShock (B1), touching on themes such as choice, free will, even indirectly criticizing the nature of games themselves. B2 in particular also offers a rounding-out of B1’s criticism of political extremism, going from the Objectivist dystopia in B1 to a collectivist nightmare in B2, with B3 rounding it out further with an indictment of nationalism. Rockstar’s Red Dead Redemption too was effective as a spiritual sequel to Red Dead Revolver, even rivaling the quality of the first game. Essentially, the impact we see by affirming the resolution is that games no longer would be able to fulfill their full value as an artistic medium, which is detrimental to the nature of games itself. Contention 2a - Video game sequels allow for a wider audience to be attracted to an IP over time. With the release of every Call of Duty game, the multiplayer community for COD has grown and grown, even garnering the attention of local news outlets about midnight release parties. And, with the release of Black Ops II, the most recent installment, the statistics are staggering. At the time of this writing, there have been over 147 billion kills in BOII multiplayer [4]. That is a staggering number that shows a truly large group of players. And, at the launch of Blizzard’s World of Warcraft expansion (a sequel under the definition, expanding the original WoW) Mists of Pandaria, there were over 10 million subscribers to play WoW [5]. This, too, is staggering. To make it short, when successful games have sequels, they also serve a function of drawing in gamers, which is in and of itself a positive impact. Contention 2b - A large audience engenders a large sense of community. But there is also another positive impact to video game sequels. As sequels bring in more gamers, a greater sense of community and dedication is engendered among them. This can be seen following the example of WoW. At BlizzCon 2011, a convention for Blizzard and WoW fans, attendance reached about 27,000 attendees [6]. This clearly reflects a level of growing dedication among fans for games, which can be tied to the growing number of fans that came about as a result of sequels offering more time for fans to flock to IPs. This too is a highly positive impact of sequels. Not only do sequels offer the time to attract more gamers, but it also increases dedication and a sense of community, as evidenced with the thousands of WoW fans in attendance at BlizzCon. Conclusion And so, judges, when looking to this round, you must bear the framework in mind, with Pro carrying the BOP, as well as the specific framework mentioned in that section. However, there are also reasons to negate as well, namely that affirming the resolution denies video games the artistic liberties that they should inherently have as an art form, affirming the resolution reduces the flow of new gamers to the gaming community that sequels offer an opportunity for, and stemming from this, the flow of gamers fosters a stronger sense of community among gamers as well. Thus, the resolution is negated. References [1] http://www.escapistmagazine.com... [2] http://techland.time.com... [3] http://www.gameinformer.com... [4] http://elite.callofduty.com... [5] http://wow.joystiq.com... [6] http://trade-shows.findthebest.com...	CON	623
623	Sdfeb7990-A44d477b9	Video games (pro) vs books (con)	Some books are interesting and you can imagine whats happening and some of them might help you learn but with video games you can interact with it and some games like the Gta series you can do whatever you want	PRO	624
624	Sd8c3cafd-A5aa96629	Violent video games should not be played by children	Although not suggested, You see many fifth graders play black ops 2. That is a problem. Video games harm them( i have facts), And thus these games should not be commonly sold in the store since children may play it. Change my mind.	PRO	625
625	S6f8c5872-Ad51c4f02	Video games are a better source of entertainment than movies	Round 1 is not acceptance Video game: A video game is an electronic game that involves interaction with a user interface to generate visual feedback on a two- or three-dimensional videodisplay device such as a TV screen or computer monitor. (Wikipedia) Movie/Film: Movies, Also known as films, Are a type of visualcommunication which uses movingpictures and sound to tell stories or inform (Wikipedia) Better: more advantageous or effective Entertainment: the action of providing or being provided with amusement or enjoyment. (oxforddictionaries) Interactive You can use a tool to choose where to go. This can be a controller, Keyboard etc. By having this it allows the user to dictate the pace of the entertainment rather than allowing the director to do it for you. Time Overall games offer more time to get enjoyment. This can be stopped and picked up at whatever time the user pleases. In a video game there is the possibility of choosing different scenarios to be played either choosing it earlier or later on in the experience. Replayability Due to the extent of the content in video games it does allow the user to have many different ways of going through content. This helps if the extent of the different ways are really drastic that it makes the user want to replay the video game again just to see what was missed.	PRO	626
626	Sfcfc1b7a-Ab0958cf2	Video games(PRO) vs books(CON) for learning	I'm a video game freak and video games deserve some justice /m\. ^_^ Format: Con starts in round 1 right away and will skip the last round to equal number of rounds. Definitions: The usual conventional meanings.	PRO	627
627	S1ff4635e-Ae5aa4ead	Ban on sale of violent video games to minors	I am sorry for my last lack luster response, i spent a lot of time looking for credible studies on this issue in which i could debunk and honestly found none worth. My time debunking on an individual basis because none provided a good CAUSATION link between violent games most rely on subjective data which ultimately proves nothing. In your paper which you provided i found a heavy amount of cause for concern.... The coding frame the paper lays out does not account for participants prior susceptibility to violence as well does not take into account the fact that participants who are predisposed to be violent or have violent tendencies will have an increased reaction violent video games because of the familiarity of the situations and the association between real world past and the games. These studies as well did not critique the fact that there is a correlational link between anti social behavior and the playing of video games. Antisocial behavior has been linked much more closely to violence and could easily be the explanation for these findings rather than the games themselves. These studies used a variety of different gauges to measure aggression. The first was observed aggression such as participants pushing shoving ect ect. These measures are extremely subjective due to the fact that aggression is not always such an outward display and most people who resort to these kind of emotional outbursts exhibit anti social behavior which is the root cause of their problems. The next measurement was loudness or noise exhibited. These traits are swell much closely correlated with children who exhibit anti social behavior as well as children who have a lack of attention in their lives. With both these problems excessive video game playing could be seen as an escape or a way for kids to distract themselves from their own life. Once again a more root cause ties all these situations together much more clearly. The final measurement of aggressive behavior is reported aggression. This is extremely unethical and due to the fact that each participant will have different peers and teachers(study used reports from teachers on aggression) also the logical connection can be made that teachers will find students more aggressive if they are socially awkward and exhibit anti social behaviors. In many cases this will also cause teachers to think less of students do to the frustration and unwillingness to cooperate with authority which anti social people tend to exhibit. Aswell the study digs it's own grave by breaking the data into three sets. Preference for violent video games, time spent playing violent video games, and video game playing in general. These all found an increase in violent behavior. This actually backs the theory of antisocial behavior much more than that of violent games because those who play a lot of video games but do not prefer violent ones would have a lot less aggression which apparently not true. This I'd awful science and reflects the ambiguity and bad science used in the field of social psychology. In many cases psychologists will pick topics which are controversial and Taylor make studies to prove themselves correct and cherry pick variables to create the results they desire. This can be seen in studies like the stanford prison experiment as well as the stanford psychological analysis on the effects of power. As a side note these studies used a short term increase in blood pressure and aggressive thoughts as well as psychological arousal as modes of gauging aggressiveness. I disagree with those findings and attribute these to the fact that they are really really fun. I mean when you are playing a fun game if you do not have a raise in blood pressure and arousal then you are probably not having fun. All these games do is provide an effective outlet for aggression for normal people. Just like sports have done for thousands of years. In every high school across the country men participate in a game where the object is to put on equipment and beat the snot out of there opponents. Aggression in those games is such a huge element and is encouraged in public schools as a way to relief themselves of aggression. These games once again encourage the actual acts of hitting hurting and pain of the opponents. This argument by the affirmative is just another way that the extroverted society is trying to demonize the introverted population for being different and engaging in activities that they would not find as constructive as jumping on to a field and actually hurting people. They would claim that venting through killing lines of codes in the form of humans does much worse damage to the human development then actually do damage to real humans. Just because a few kids use this excuse as a scapegoat to remove accountability of their actions from themselves to other people does not make a legitimate claim to legislate against the freedoms of the average teen to play a game enjoy himself and cope with the stresses of a modern day in a constructive mindless way. The science used by the affirmative is flawed at best and in the opinion of this scientist to be total malarkey. As well the burden of proof lies with the affirmative in the case. In any case where it is proposed to legislate against the right of individuals there must be a substantial amount of evidence supporting the decisions and should not be up to the dissent to provide reasons why they are beneficial because of the fact that in our society people are given the rights to do the things they wish as long as they do not violate the rights or laws of the society as a whole or other individuals. For a government to ban something based on false science and the personal convictions is unconstitutional unethical, and just plain wrong!	CON	628
628	Sf5624343-A80fc51e9	Fun Argument: Books (Pro) vs Video Games (Con)	It seems my opponent only contests the fact that people learn things from video games. This means that you can extend out the arguments that video games provide benefits that books don't give, such as physical benefits (hand-eye coordination, reaction time, etc), as well as social benefits. These went unadressed. And these will outweigh the education point because it's the only unique impact in the round. Both sides teach people new stuff, but I'm the only one who gives other benefits. And, on the learning point: It doesn't really matter what video games teach so long as people are receiving some kind of educational benefit from playing video games. My opponent hasn't really contested that video games teach people stuff, rather he just has a problem with what video games teach. Fine, play a different video game then that teaches what you want to learn. And it doesn't matter why people play video games, they'll still teach the player new things.	CON	629
629	Se362974a-A66940566	Video Games have made a positive impact on our everyday lives.	"I thank my opponent for responding. ""This point is true for some games but we know this isn't true most of them. Most games are hours worth of brainless activity. The games that help learning are more popular now but not throughout the history of video games. Video games have replaced playing outside and reading a book."" A large number of video games have some sort of educational application, whether it be strategy, math, or direct learning. This is especially frequent with the computer games that younger kids play, such as The ClueFinders (http://en.wikipedia.org...) or Zoombinis (http://en.wikipedia.org...). Video games have been proven to improve attention skills (http://www.nature.com... & http://www.bcs.rochester.edu...), and many apply basic or complex math that players have to figure out by themselves in order to play the game effectively or optimally. Take the Pokï¿½mon franchise, for example. The game revolves around numbers, and anyone who plays the game will have to use math. I experienced this effect myself. Just look at how complicated such a game can be: http://bulbapedia.bulbagarden.net.... Also, games are not ""brainless activity"". In a book called ""Everything Bad is Good for You"", Steven Johnson talks about how video games require more brainpower than board games, as you need quick thinking and fine motor skills, while common board games usually do not have this requirement. ""This stuff doesn't make something good. Nuck bombs make advancements in other areas of science such as energy. (Of course I don't find video games that bad) Entertainment is something we will still have without video games. Entertainment can have negative impacts."" Nuck bomb? I'm afraid I don't know what that is, and both Wikipedia and Google aren't giving me any results from which I can deride a conclusion. As for technological advancements, I have already proven my point, but if you need more, here you go. Surgeons who play video games are proven to be more efficient in their work, which means the difference between life and death for many people. Just try to tell those people that there isn't any positive impact.(http://psychcentral.com...) If you try to argue that some people have killed themselves over World of Warcraft, well, that's just Darwin's natural selection weeding out the inept among us. Additionally, computer simulations have been used by the U.S. Military to train soldiers without having to perform costly real-life, dangerous simulations. (http://www.eric.ed.gov...) Computer simulations are just another form of video game. Finally, ""Entertainement can have negative impacts."" Like what? I can't counter an example that isn't here. ""Computer, television, and video game increases are now used in a growing trend of neglect. People are talking to their kids for 5 minutes and then given a video game so they will be left alone for hours. Kids are also becoming much more in need of entertainment things like cellphones and gameboys like never before."" Again, you have no proof. This is just a technology addiction that occurs whenever any new technology is introduced. After being introduced to something as great as video games, people want to play them. Also, I'm sure that parents are still communicating with their kids as much as they need to be, and if they aren't, I doubt that video games are to blame. Video Games have made a positive impact on our everyday lives. They have provided happiness, entertainment, education, technology, skills, activity, and thinking. If it weren't for video games, we'd be more bored, we'd be poorer, we'd be dumber, we'd have less fine motor skills, and some of us wouldn't even be alive."	PRO	630
630	Sc80f9596-A71f144ef	should children play mature rated video games	I think that children should not play mature video games because many, children can get influenced by the stuff in the game especially at a young age. Now that games are becoming more and more violent this issue becomes even more dangerous with the sudden interest of children in mature rated games. I have been told on many axons that the games was mature rated but i understand the things that go on in the games i play. However there are many other children that don't understand what happens in these games. The worst part about this situation is that games graphics are now being improved and if it a gory game, that gets upped too. So, main point is that game sellers should stop children under the age of 12 to buy mature rated games.	CON	631
631	S2442d956-A4f5fbf98	Video games are detrimental to the modern day society.	"First of all before I start, I never freaking agreed to those dumb terms that I had to follow. I will only follow the rules on this site and nothing else. I could care less about what you say and all that bs you write and I will only present my argument based on my own beliefs and nothing else. Furthermore, you say concise? How is writing all that stuff concise? Finally, I shall begin my argument. ""While the leading games sold are violent games, most of today's games force kids to learn complex rule systems, master challenging new interfaces, follow dozens of shifting variables in real time and prioritize between multiple objectives."" Ok, so the leading games such as Modern Warfare 2 and Assassin's Creed 2 are fun. (I personally like them too because of their amazing graphics and wonderful gameplay) However, there is a difference between fun and getting addicted. A lot of today's kids, including immature adults a well, play games 24/7, ignoring their family, ignore their jobs, and just focus on this game the whole day like gambling or getting addicted to drugs. So you say ""force"" kids to learn complex rule systems? You cannot ""force"" someone, they must do it by their own free will as stated in the proverb, ""You can lead the horse to the water, but you cannot make it drink."" No matter how ""educational"" a game is, a child can only understand it up to a certain level. In my person experience, the only educational games I see nowadays only include leapfrog games and other such games for kids up to 9 year olds or less. Or you can add in scrabble and other mind games online which less than 5% of the population plays. So addicted people make excuses such as, ""O, this game is so educational because I learn history in it"". Ok, let's take call of duty 3 as an example. There is a historical background in it which is WWII. However, that's the only thing you know about it. Do you learn about kamikazes suiciding to destroy ships? Do you learn about the secret messages and how they communicate? ""Consider this one fascinating trend among teenagers: They're spending less time watching professional sports and more time simulating those sports on Xbox or PlayStation. Now, which activity challenges the mind more — sitting around rooting for the Packers, or managing an entire football franchise through a season of ""Madden 2005"": calling plays, setting lineups, trading players and negotiating contracts?"" I beg to differ with your view on this. I doubt you negotiate contracts in that video game and the only way you can do so? What, just offer money and players? Actually, when you watch a football game, you learn how the game works and different techniques that each team uses. Also, many adults usually call up their friends to watch the superbowl together. Do you think spending time with friends and actually having a taste of real life is worse than playing a football game by yourself and staring at the screen? ""What you want to learn and how you want to learn, that is up to you. It is the individual's responsibility, and his or her responsibility only, to take whatever it is that one wants to take from anything. While it is true that children are easier to influence, it is up to the parents to determine what content they want their children to be exposed to."" That statement is very unrealistic. You actually think that parents nowadays can 100% control what their children see and what they pick up? You think that every kid doesn't watch porn behind their parent's backs or do illegal things? The video games and tv are not 100% liable, but they are at least partly responsible for this. Ok, let's say you have a child and he goes to school. At school, his classmates showoff how much profanity they know and how ""cool"" they are because they smoke french fries. Where do they pick up smoking and want to fake it? From their parents or tv shows where they see people smoking and cursing. ""Up to the individual"" eh? And you think little kids will know this? And it is around the mere ages of 10-13 where they pick up these kinds of things are even further exposed to this in high school. Therefore, I believe that this statement is flawed in many ways. ""Just because a person watches a violent crime take place on a television screen does not necessarily mean that person will in turn commit a violent crime. Nor would any of these outlets justify a person's turn from the ethical rules that bind a society, or the laws themselves. At the end of the day, video games are not to blame for any action that occurs; it is the individual."" I truly disagree with this statement as well. As you said, it does not ""necessarily"" mean that they will do something wrong. But that means there is the slightest of a CHANCE that they WILL do it right? Video games are not to blame for this? Not even a little? I would advise you to look at something like this: http://forum.mmosite.com... now you will argue that it's for 18+ kids right? Let's see how many people below 18 play M rated games. A LOT? ""I think that video games help prepare children for today's life and technology. Many of the games require strategy and decision making skills and these are always helpful. Actually, aren't these games like computers with menu's and options? This would aid children in learning basic computer language and ops. Though they may seem like a waste of time, like most playful behavior, it is grounded in abilities that children need to practice and learn to become successful in today's world."" [3] This, I 100% disagree with. They help prepare children for today's life and technology? So you're saying that every kid would be able to know what games to play and their parents will know exactly everything that they see? There are many departments in the gaming field. There are strategy which makes up only a small portion of it. Even if you decide to say that it is beneficial, wouldn't playing chess with a friend actually enhance one's communication skill and the ability to converse with other people about various topics? Furthermore, there are computer classes that teach people how to use computers. When you play games, all you do is just click and follow the instructions. How might you learn basic computer language? Finally, there is my own personal view of this. Before computers were invented, people such as our parents did not have the luxury of video games. Did they die because they didn't have them? Did they suffer? NO Instead, they actually benefited from this loss. They had a wide imagination. For example, my mom was born in Hong Kong. What did she do without video games? For entertainment, she would make her own toys and her own games to play with her friends. They still had a merry life and they did not have the problems that we have today. Furthermore, some companies that publish the violent and mindless video games can be called a little cold-hearted. They do not care who plays it and the do not care about whether people die or not. They only care about themselves and getting money into their little pockets. You might argue that they do put ratings on their games? Okay, so the parent tells the children not to buy those M or A rated games. But with the technology now, the child can just go online and download those even more horrid games or just buy them via online if they are old enough. The parent will never have total control over what their kid does. LASTLY, games are very addicting nowadays. Take the popular online mmorpg, maplestory. How is it beneficial? So the parent takes a look at it and think it's fine because there are cute little avatars and the monsters are just snails? Yes and when you play this seemingly harmless, game, it is a waste of time. You just kill repeatedly with no brain and other immature players on there use profanity as well. THAT proves how kids these days can pick up bad habits. As a result,"	PRO	632
632	Sb1a6f17a-A39bc3110	Violence in video games does not significantly contribute to real world violence.	"What began the controversy: It is obvious that violence has been a major issue in society today. Events such as the school shooting in Newtown and the bombing of the Boston Marathon have made people begin to wonder what exactly pushed the guilty individuals to commit such atrocities. Many people have concluded that one of the major factors that promotes violence today are video games. Jay Rockefeller is one of the activists against video game violence. Minnesota Post explains that Rockfeller introduced a legislation instructing the National Association of Sciences to investigate the effects of violent video games on children, saying, “People believe that violent video games are no more dangerous to young minds than classic literature or Saturday morning cartoons. Parents, paediatricians, and psychologists know better.” (1) The effects of video games on the minds of young children has been studied for years, and the data quite contradicts Rockfeller’s conclusion. What really causes violence in teens: Serious Crimes Adam Lanza, the gunman from the Sandy Hook shooting, played violent video games regularly. This caused many to believe that this is why he committed his violent crime. However, this was not the case. Eric Huey explains, “It turns out that delinquent peers, depression, and an abusive family environment account for actual violence incidents…” (2) Obviously, mental disorders would be another thing that promotes such violence. Here we can see that video games did not compel him (or most other school shooters) to commit the crime. Aggression A common argument against violence in video games is that violence in video games cause aggression. This is actually not the case. Carol Pichefsky notes that aggression is not caused by violent video games; rather, it is caused by a competitive environment (3). So, a game of MarioKart would be just as likely to result in aggression as a game of Call of Duty. This is not exclusive to video games either, competitive sports and competitive debate (especially on this website) are just as likely to result in aggression. So, it is certainly not the violence in video games that causes such feelings. The last thing I would like to note is that aggression and violence are two different things. Aggression is an intention. Violence in an action (4). My opponent showing that video games cause aggression is simply not enough. Violence rates: Here is the most important point of this debate. Logically, if violence in video games significantly contribute to real world violence, violent crime rates would rise as video game sales rise. This, however, is untrue: Now, I don't claim that this decrease is due to video game sales (a lot of other factors could have affected the decline). However, this decrease makes mockery of the idea that video games have legitimately contributed to the rise of violence in society today (5). Video game's effect: Releasing Aggression Studies suggest that video games give individuals an outlets to release aggression; there was a study done on inmates. An observer notes ""If you give them video games, they’ll be less likely to start fights. So once a week we’d hook up a bunch of TVs in a classroom so all of the murderers and rapists could play Halo. There’s nothing more interesting than seeing guys who have killed multiple people deathmatching each other (6)."" The inmates clearly were able to release their aggression in a way that doesn't hurt other people. This can be applied to other people as well. Logically, if violence in video games makes inmates less violent, they won't have an opposite affect when it comes to kids. Enjoyment of Violence This is an important part of the debate. Many people don't become violent because of violence in video games. Rather, they play violent video games because they enjoy violence. In order for con to win this point, he must prove that the violence in video games causes the violence. A simple correlation between violent people and people that play violent video games is not enough. (1) http://www.minnpost.com... (2) http://www.sfgate.com... (3) http://www.forbes.com... (4) http://www.goodtherapy.org... (5) Chasing the Dream, “The Economist” (6) http://freakonomics.com..."	PRO	633
633	Sdb09cefc-A6765c1bd	Video Games should be banned for people 18 and younger	"To start off, I am quite aware that BANNING video games for 18 and younger may seem extreme, but there has been serious problems for kids playing video games so banning them may not be as bad as it seems. A huge one is: They're addicting. Here is an example, My brother, 13 years old, is currently at an outdoor retreatment camp for a few reasons. But one of them is he is obsessed with video games. I've caught him too many times to count in the middle of the night using the computer when he was not supposed to...playing geometry dash. If he had access to a computer 24/7 whenever he wanted to use it I can assure you he WOULD be using it 24/7. I mean, he already uses it when he's not supposed to. The worse part is, when I catch him doing it, he reacts in a terrible way. He basically throws a temper tantrum, and that isn't normal for a 13 year old. The most recent one he did was when I caught him, he took my backpack and threw out every single thing in it all over the floor, and then chased me up the stairs. Another example is his friend and my friend, Toby. He can only play video games from 8:00 AM to 12:00 P.M. And then he can get on again at 6:00 P.M. You might argue limits would be okay. WRONG! I swear from the time he can't uses the computer, he legit sits around and does NOTHING. Toby doesn't play any after school activities, I don't know what he likes to do because I either see him on the computer, or sitting on the couch. The motivation to play video games is also a factor of addiction. Let's be honest, usually teenagers are either super social, or not social really at all. Don't deny it! No one is really in the middle. But since teenagers can also be very awkward, they can usually be caught in the introvert area. People who are caught up in the need for status or simply need an escape from problems. Playing games that give you a sense of victory or control over your life can be a helpful way of coping. This can easily lead to spending all your time online and ""shutting out"" the world. ""When it comes to problems in socializing that might make gamers especially vulnerable to video game addiction, the following factors seem to be important: Lack of successful experiences in real life Low parental support High video game use by parents Divorce or separation of parents Behavioural problems or problems at school Truancy from classes School phobia Poor grades Repeating a grade"" From https://www.psychologytoday.com... ""A recent two-year longitudinal study of more than three thousand Singapore students found that longer gaming time, reduced social competence, and a history of impulsive behaviour increased the likelihood of gaming addiction after two years. Among the outcomes of pathological gaming are depression, anxiety, social phobias and poorer performance in school. But can social anxiety and other problems linked to excessive gaming be causing the problem or are the result of gaming addiction? A Dutch study of 543 gamers found that reduced social skills appeared to result in increased problem game behaviour six months later though the opposite effect was not observed. Loneliness appears to be a cause of pathological gaming and vice versa though the same result was not found for life satisfaction. Looking at how problem gaming behaviour was linked to social and personality risk factors over time, a team of German researchers studied students in schools in central Germany. Florian Rehbein and Dirk Baier of Hanover, Germany""s Criminological Research Institute of Lower Saxony surveyed 1,217 fourth-grade students and repeated the survey five years later. Questionnaires included information on how children interacted with their parents at home and social adjustment. "" From: https://www.psychologytoday.com... Which connects a little to my next point. It brings down your grades. Let's say you just learned a bunch of things at school and ONCE you get home, you want to play a video game. So you play a video game before doing your homework. If you don't give yourself enough time to really let the lessons you learn sink in, you can easily forget them. You don't think when you're playing video games, you're distracted. In fact, you get so distracted you wait until the last minute to get homework done and then you can't remember anything because all that went away when your mind was blank. Kids need to focus on their schoolwork especially when you're a teen trying to get into a good college, or even middle school. If you do your schoolwork and then just play a video game, it's not an easy balance. playing one time is different but video games are addictive. I haven't met a single person who played a video game and didn't talk about it to me almost everyday. Problem video game behaviors do persist over time. Studies show that If you had a video game addiction in fourth grade, it's most likely that you would be struggling with it way worse five year later. Parents can also be ignorant. Back in 2011, Rebecca Colleen Christian let her 3 and a half year old daughter die of malnutrition while she spent hours playing Witch of Warcraft. A three year old. Another thing is, even if video games have age recommendations on them, that doesn't stop anyone. I took a poll in a sixth grade class at my school for a project. I asked how many people here play video games. 70 out of 81 did. Then I asked how many people owned first person shooter games or anything that involved weapons and killing? 63 out of 81 did. Age restrictions don't stop anyone. Which could lead to real life violence. In 2009 17 year old Daniel Petric shot both his parents which was fatal to the mom, because they took away his Halo 3. In 2005, Qui Chengwei stabbed a friend to death when he found out he sold a virtual sword that belonged to him on Ebay for $738.00"	PRO	634
634	S1910aba4-A5d5a771d	This House Would Ban Video Games that Objectify Women	"Pro argues that explicit sexual content- such the strip clubs in Grand Theft Auto V- is harming society in general and adding to the immoral treatment of women while not enhancing the gaming experience enough to warrant its usage. Therefore, it needs to be regulated by an impartial government funded party. First of all I would like to introduce an impartial system that is in place already.The Entertainment Software Rating Board (ESRB) offers 6 different ratings for age appropriateness that are on virtually all games sold in the US and Canada (Other counties have different organizations, PEGI in the UK etc). As well as an overall rating they also provide content descriptors which point out the content that impacted a rating e.g. violence, sexual nature, alcohol use, drug references, crude humor etc. These ratings let the buyer know what to expect from the game they are buying and I would argue that they are the only regulation the games industry needs on explicit content- they provide the consumer with unbiased information about the product they are purchasing while not regulating the content itself. Pro argues that the sexually explicit scenes are often just there to titillate the male audience, the target group the GTA series are aimed at. Anyone familiar with the series would be aware of the general plot of the games as well as the world they are set in. GTA is not a ""sunshine and roses"" kind of game where the protagonist collects flowers- it doesn't claim to be that in its advertising campaign or at any other point. It is capturing a particular kind of environment with a particular kind of protagonist and uses explicit settings to enrich that world. Games like ""Fallout New Vegas"" and ""Farcry 3"" which fall in the same ratings category use similarly explicit content to paint a picture- strippers and gambling for the first, severe violence for the second. The games do not promote a male dominated society any more that movies such as ""Quills"" (an explicit piece about the life of Marquis De Sade) promote deviant behavior or Twilight promotes female dependence. They tell a particular story, they don't illustrate an ideal way of life. Limiting their storytelling remit would impede the right to free speech and set unwanted precedents. Pro's second point refers to the children that may be playing an adult themed game game and the harm seeing explicit scenes may cause. Again: games that use such content are rated as either an M or an A which means that they are unsuitable for children- it is the parental responsibility to ensure their kids don't play them. If we introduce further regulations than the ones already in place in order to make everything suitable for kids it means the end of anything above E, both in the video games industry and the wider media. Certain messages cannot be put across in the E rating nor is it the games industry's responsibility to babysit content- that's what parents are for, to make sure their children play age appropriate content and to educate them about how the world and human relationships work. In conclusion, I feel that the ESRB rating already used by the gaming industry provides sufficient information for people to decide whether they want to play a certain game or not. Explicit content has its place in games if it enriches the environment- of course it isn't always used as a tool for good but that is why the warning label is there, to help those who do not want to see it steer away. Not all video games are good video games. Not all video games that use explicit scenes are doing so to enrich the gamer's experience. However, a lot of them are and they do not need to be punished and further regulated because of a few bad eggs."	CON	635
635	Sf5624343-Aa01a4c9c	Fun Argument: Books (Pro) vs Video Games (Con)	"Yes, I can agree that video games can teach you a thing or two but...... I'm pretty sure there isn't a ""video game"" on the natural laws of physics or a detailed analysis on calculus! I love video games; I used to play MW2 every single day, but I can tell you that books make scholars, not video games! **********Most people play video games for entertainment, not to learn something anyway!********** http://www.esrb.org... Here is someone who changes the world by writing ""books"": Steven Hawking: http://www.stephenhawkingbooks.com... See those books? Is there a video game to teach me all these things? If you can't show me a video game that can help me find this type of knowledge then... How do you expect me to learn about the universe?? ""The Universe is a place fill with cold hard facts"" - from Halo 2 http://www.youtube.com... How do you think video games are made? by video games? No by people who read code in book"	PRO	636
636	S2442d956-A7f02d727	Video games are detrimental to the modern day society.	I challenge my opponent to prove that video games are indeed not detrimental to our society.	PRO	637
637	Sf6d610e8-A785d3c1b	The playing of video games has done more harm than good to society.	There are VERY FEW positive effects of video gaming. Some of which include improved hand-eye coordination, fast and strategic thinking,etc [1] However, these positives only affect one party, that is, the player whilst the negatives have the potential to affect non-players. For example, these numerous shootings which are closely linked to the playing of video games.[2]. On a less tragic note, video games also increase violence and compulsive behavior which is not only destructive to the player but also to the people around him/her.[3]. When video games are played to an excessive level, they are known to cause addiction. The most popular of these addictive games being World of Warcraft which has literally destroyed people's social lives.[4]. Such games have the capacity to alter a player's sense of reality and cause the player to abandon real-life activities in preference to virtual reality. This has and will,in the near future, I assume, cause some mentally unbalanced buffoons to foolishly murder people or commit suicide as in these sad cases[5]. The mentally unbalanced people having descended into this mental state due to excessive playing of video games.Drifting away from these extreme cases and wandering into more common scenarios, students who play video games often forgo schoolwork in preference to video games. This causes their grades to fall and this ultimately has an effect on their future careers and standard of living. Players who take gaming to insanely absurd levels lose touch with reality and endanger themselves and those around them thinking that it is just a game. As a matter of fact, one wildly video game intoxicated brain dead young man said these irrational and disturbing words to the authorities after having murdered law enforcers: life is like a video game, you have to die some time.[6]. In places like USA and South Korea (I by no means do not mean to offend people in these countries and I am emphasizing that not all of them are encompassed in this debate) video game addicts have lost their real lives, both literally and not in the literal sense. Furthermore, video games limit the creativity of addicted players.[7] Despite it being unproven, it is highly probable that video games have an effect on IQ as well. The only people getting any real benefits from video games are those making and selling them for million dollar profits. Until the next round..... [1] www.raisesmartkid.com/3-to-6-years-old/4-articles/34-the-good-and-bad-effects-of-video-games [2] http://www.google.com... [3] http://www.google.com... [4] http://www.google.com... [5] http://www.google.com... [6] http://www.google.com... [7] http://www.google.com...	PRO	638
638	See0927f6-A151cca40	video games are bad for not only children, but all humans	Extend my arguments and vote for pro, as video games cause laziness and don't give anything in return.	PRO	639
639	S9af99515-A19042b11	should kids under age 12 play violent video games	"Con forfeited, and I extend my argument. There is no reason why kids should not play violent video games, as there is no evidence to show that violent video games engenders violent behavior in kids (pro did not even make this claim - in fact, there was no mention of how ""violent"" video games contrasts with video games in general from the pro side). Therefore, pro failed to uphold the BOP and con wins by default."	PRO	640
640	Sce330406-A77c11839	Violent Video Games Cause Violent Behavior	"Aggression =/= Violence My opponent's sole refutation to this point is that by claiming that aggression and violent behavior are not the same thing, I'm ignoring the context of the situation. He supports this by quoting one of his sources where kids rated their own behavior on how violent they were. There are numerous problems with this though, First, this is a highly silly argument. Just by saying one of his sources refers to ""violent behavior"" doesn't equate aggression and violence in any way. He still has yet to prove how aggression and violence are the same thing. My previous example of how I can be an aggressive person and still not do a single violent thing still holds. Second, this is a really, really, really, silly argument. Even if his study references some kids talking about their aggression as violent acts, it would be highly fallacious to then equate that into all references of aggression are of real-world violence. That's like saying because I'm a mass murderer and I'm wearing purple socks, then anyone wearing purple socks is a mass murderer. So just because one of his sources references some kids talking about their aggression in terms of physical violence, that doesn't mean all aggression is in terms of phsyical violence. And, this is devastating to my opponent's case because every single one of his sources talk about how video games are making kids more aggressive. But if that aggression isn't being actually being turned into actual physical violence, then it becomes impossible for him to actually affirm the resolution. Mis-Misquoting: Instead of responding to each accusation that I misquoted my opponent's sources, especially since each response would be the same essentially, I'll just condense it into one response: no I didn't. I copy/pasted the exact text the article had into the round. I'm not quoting entire paragraphs of text if I only plan to cite a few sentences because a) that's a waste of characters, b) you're already quoting the things that you say I need to be quoting, so there's no point, and c) it doesn't invalidate any of the accusations I've brought against you. For someone who's complaining about the direction this debate is headed, you're only furthering it in that direction when you had multiple different chances to respond in substance to the arguments I've leveled against you. Also, now that I'm re-reading through his defenses, I'm noticing something come up really often that I feel like needs to be addressed. And so it shall be: AND WHAT ABOUT THE KIDS!?!? THINK ABOUT THE KIDS!! Frankly, I don't know why my opponent thinks age range is all that relevant of a limiting factor. The resolution was never limited in any way to only children or only teenagers so the fact that he's trying to disqualify evidence based on it not talking about kids is really, really odd. And now for some math talk. For those of you who don't want to be bored by math goobley-gook, I'll bold where the tl;dr starts. STATS 101 The problem with the one study my opponent cited is that it stated the relationship cited between playing violent video games and aggression is equal to r = .20. But what does that even mean? Well, as my math teacher always told me to do, figure out what the variable is. r represents the correlation coefficient, or how strong the relationship between two variables are (1). The number is measured between positive and negative one. The closer to negative one it is, the more negative the relationship is (i.e. more x correlates with less y) and the closer to positive one it is, the more positive the relationship is (i.e. more x correlates with more y). END OF EXTREMELY SHORT MATH SECTION Essentially, the stronger the correlation between aggression and violent video games was, the closer that number would be to one. The fact that it is very, very far away from one (as it's at .20) suggests that it has little to no impact. BUT EVEN IF the correlation coefficient does suggest a relationship between the two, there's still a bunch of problems that the studies don't resolve, which I will go into now. First, he can't just point to this and say that violent video games cause aggression and point to the correlation coefficient as evidence. This is textbook correlation-causation fallacy. Just because something correlates with another variable, does not mean one causes the other. The possibility of bias in the study or other variables influencing the results is still a viable possibility that would explain the correlation, thus making it fallacious to just point to it and say ""violent video games cause aggression"". There are multiple variables, that I brought up before and my opponent never responded to, that would influence the two, such as domestic violence, abuse, and mental illness among others. Second, even if he's somehow showing that violent video games do actually CAUSE aggression, not just correlate with it, then he still has to prove how being more aggressive makes people actually resort to physical, real-world violence, which is something that he has yet to ever try to prove. ======== But let's take a step back here. Let's think about if I'm just a little deluded to my debating skills. What if my opponent is actually right that there is some kind of causal link between violent video games and aggression? And that aggression is the same thing as real-world violence? What if he's actually right? Even if, he'd still be wrong. Why? Let's think about it for a second. Well for one video games serve as a method to vent anger and stress, offering a non-violent outlet to any kind of aggression or tension-buildup. Gilsdorf explains it quite well when he states: ""If some of these men are hopelessly mentally ill, then we need to do all we can to prevent their access to real guns. But sane or depressed, many men feel powerless. Many feel angry. Many feel disengaged. They just want a stake in the action. Video games might be the best outlet they’ve got."" (2) Could playing violent video games actually help people relax? Make them less likely to commit other atrocities in real life, their anger fully expressed in the virtual world, making it unnecessary to surface in the real one? Empirics say yes. With 42% of the boys studied saying they play video games to release anger and 65% saying that playing games helps them relax (3), it's quite clear what effect violent video games have on people, if any. CONCLUSION - My opponent's only real defense was accusing me of misquoting his sources. With this addressed, the turns against his sources all stand as valid, giving me additional offense coming out of his very arguments. - All of my opponent's arguments revolve around the concept of showing how violent video games create more aggression in those who play them. The only problem with this is the only point that even comes close to doing so mathmatically admits to having little to no impact on behavior. And even if it did have some kind of correlation, a) he isn't proving causation at all, and his attempts to assert it are the correlation-causation fallacy, b) isn't showing how aggression and real-world violence are the same thing, c) ignores the argument coming out of his own sources that says if this is actually true, then there would be a crime trend to match it, and that crime rate trend does not exist (this is the Fergusen evidence coming out of his own Time source), d) he isn't showing why any of the alternative explanations for this rise in aggression aren't actually valid, meaning that they all stand as alternative explanatory variables (this is only further strengthened by the fact that the Fergusen evidence says that studies saying there's a relationship don't account for these alternative variables), e) he's not responding to the argument coming from his Time source saying that those who played violent video games were just as likely to show signs of empathy toward others as those who didn't play violent video games, which is a direct counter to his aggression point, and f) doesn't explain the evidence that actually shows how playing violent video games provides an outlet for things like anger and aggression, which would prevent real-world outbursts of violence. And this is especially crushing to my opponent since this analysis is back by empirics which confirm the point. And with that, I pass the floor back over to my opponent, and wish him luck with the rest of this debate! :) Sources: (1) - http://tinyurl.com... (2) - http://tinyurl.com... (3) - Cheryl Olson, Lawrence Kutner, Dorothy Warner, Jason Almerigi, Lee Baer, Armand Nicholi, and Eugene Beresin, ""Factors Correlated with Violent Video Game Use by Adolescent Boys and Girls,"" Journal of Adolescent Health, July 2007"	CON	641
641	S22a50a17-Aa3ff4002	should kids be allowed to play video games on the weekdays	kids should be able to play video games so that they are happy	PRO	642
642	S22a50a17-A5120222a	should kids be allowed to play video games on the weekdays	Video games are a distraction from school work and chores they should not be able to be played on week days.	CON	643
643	S5b40f34d-A59798318	Competitive video games should be considered a sport.	Keep in mind I am stating that only COMPETITIVE video games should be considered sport.	PRO	644
644	S204460e9-A7c044253	Are video games making kids dumber Yes(pro) or No(con)	"I accept the debate. I will be arguing that there are numerous educational benefits within video games, as well as other cognitive and social benefits that will, overall, disprove the notion that video games make kids ""dumber"". I will then refute my opponent's arguments. To begin with, video games offer numerous educational benefits. A study conducted by the Educational Development Center (EDC) and the Ready To Learn Initiative (RTL) found that a curriculum that included video games lead to an improvement in early literacy skills(1). To quote directly, ""the study focused on young children, and 4- and 5-year-olds who participated showed increases in letter recognition, sounds association with letters, and understanding basic concepts about stories and print."" This trend is also modeled in older students as well. College aged students in the Loyalist College in Ontario, after participating in a 3D virtual simulation of a US/Canada border crossing, where the students played the role of the guards, saw an increase of successful test scores from 56% to 95%(1). Ever going to need laparoscopic surgery? Better hope your surgeon is a gamer. To quote directly from the article: ""A study published in the February edition of Archives of Surgery says that surgeons who regularly play video games are generally more skilled at performing laparoscopic surgery.""(1). Educational benefits aren't the only thing you gain from playing video games. A study done by the American Psychological Association (APA), shows that ""playing shooter video games improved a player’s capacity to think about objects in three dimensions, just as well as academic courses to enhance these same skills, according to the study.""(2). Also, to continue quoting from the same study, ""The more adolescents reported playing strategic video games, such as role-playing games, the more they improved in problem solving and school grades the following year, according to a long-term study published in 2013. Children’s creativity was also enhanced by playing any kind of video game, including violent games""(2). To move on to my opponent's arguments, my opponent seems to be falling into the ""they're not doing anything productive"" mindset. To start with, refer back to my arguments about the numerous different educational and cognitive benefits that video gaming provides, meaning that playing video games can be really productive and beneficial. But secondly, since my opponent brought up the game ""Clash of Clans"" which is an online multiplayer game that you can play on your smart phone, these types of games also have various different social benefits that aid kids and adults in various aspects of life. ""Multiplayer games become virtual social communities, where decisions need to be made quickly about whom to trust or reject and how to lead a group, the authors said. People who play video games, even if they are violent, that encourage cooperation are more likely to be helpful to others while gaming than those who play the same games competitively, a 2011 study found.""(2). According to Ian Bogost, associate professor at the Georgia Institute of Technology and founder of software maker Persuasive Games. “Look at ‘World of Warcraft’: You’ve got 11-year-olds who are learning to delegate responsibility, promote teamwork and steer groups of people toward a common goal.”(1). These are hardly qualities of ""dumb"" people. Overall, video games offer many different benefits to gamers, some of which you can't find in books or the classroom. But the claim that video games make kids ""dumber"" is blatantly false. Sources: (1) - http://abcnews.go.com... (2) - http://www.apa.org..."	CON	645
645	S59470aa6-A1f6cedff	Video Games teach you life skillz	"The burden of proof is on the side of pro, and since he/she has not posted anything this round I do not have anything to refute, all the same, I will provide some arguments for pro and refute those, please keep this in mind when you vote. Argument 1: Simulation Video Games can help you prepare for real life. Sadly, this is not the case. The daily mail reports that video games distort the boundaries between fantasy and reality. A study shows that frequent video game players often integrate parts of video game into real life, a process researchers call game transfer phenomena. Gamers have often reported that they had an impulse to resolve real-life issues using game elements or as the character from a game would. Racing game that people think would improve your handling teach you how to perform flat spin, barrel rolls, long air times, and knockdowns. People who often play first person shooters might have a sudden impulse to solve an argument by shooting a person, asphalt 8 players may experience a desire to get out of a traffic jam by going over a ramp to the other side of the divider, race forward and smash back. Since video games distort the gap between reality and fantasy, it definitely does not help one prepare for real life, nor does it develop the much coveted life skills. Argument 2: Video Games benefit multitasking skills. Do multitasking skills really increase the ability to face the stress of daily life? Apparently not, in a study published in the Journal of Experimental Psychology, Joshua Rubinstein, David Meyer, and Jeffrey Poldrack found that multitasking does not in reality save time. They showed our brains do not do things at the same time, rather they focus on one task for a bit then quickly shift over to the other, when playing a first person shooter our brains quickly alternate between the moving aspect and the shooting. Because our brains needs to continually reorient themselves it takes longer for a multi tasker to do the two things at the same time because the switching period is extended over a long period of time. In fact people consider ""multitaskers"" to be really distracted students and adults. So in conclusion multitasking does not help with life skills. Sources: http://www.nhs.uk... http://www.nea.org..."	CON	646
646	S30a5cf73-A9fe7303f	Video Games do not increase or perpetuate juvenile violence	"First of all, as an observation, Juvenile can be defined as the following, from Merriam-Webster Online Dictionary: "" physiologically immature or undeveloped"", :reflecting psychological or intellectual immaturity"", and ""of, relating to, characteristic of, or suitable for children or young people."" Therefore, since no exact age-bar ws given by the Pro, we can assume anyone is a juvenile if they match the description. This means adults who have mental disabilities, and people of all ages who bear these characteristics meeet the criteria of ""Juvenile."" First - Kids/Juveniles who play violent video games are prone to Violent Videogames, as told by a journal Pediatrics in it's study in 2008. Anne Harding of CNN, who covered the study, reported on three groups in the study: ""In every group, children who were exposed to more video game violence did become more aggressive over time than their peers who had less exposure."" CBSNews' 60 Minutes even went on about how a violent video game, Grand Theft Auto, led to a rampage by one of the kids who played it: ""And now, the game is at the center of a civil lawsuit involving the murders of three men in the small town of Fayette, Ala. They were gunned down by 18-year-old Devin Moore, who had played Grand Theft Auto day and night for months."" American Academy of Child & Adolescent Psychiatry elaborate on these effects: ""Studies of children exposed to violence have shown that they can become: “immune” or numb to the horror of violence, imitate the violence they see, and show more aggressive behavior with greater exposure to violence. Some children accept violence as a way to handle problems. Studies have also shown that the more realistic and repeated the exposure to violence, the greater the impact on children. In addition, children with emotional, behavioral and learning problems may be more influenced by violent images."" Therefore, the effects of violent video games are true, and do exist. Therefore, I contend that video Games do increase juvenile violence, as anyone, including children, who are deemed able to be a ""juvenile"" by definition, can be pushed into doing violence."	CON	647
647	Sb1a6f17a-Af03f36cb	Violence in video games does not significantly contribute to real world violence.	"I'll do a couple short rebuttals and then move on to some voting issues. MY CASE Logical Fallacy- Affirming a Disjunct My opponent accuses me of using this logical fallacy throughout my case. The problem with this point is that in order for me to be using this fallacy, I would have to have no evidence which shows how video games do *not* cause violence. I have shown this in a couple places. First, lets look at my statistics point. There I illustrated that as video game sales have gone up, violence rates have gone down. This essentially makes mockery of the idea that violence in video games significantly contributes to violence. However, if you, as a reader, do not buy this point, I'll clarify for you a bit more in my next point. Second, look at my point which explains the aggression release coming from video games. This suggests that violence in video games can actually lower violence rates, which is supported by my statistics. Through these two points, I hope you will all see that I have not used this logical fallacy. Really, studies on video games alone have so many variables that could be causing violence. It is inaccurate to blame the violence variable for any aggression / legitimate crime that comes from gamers. Violence Rates My opponent explains that even if violence goes down as video games sales go up, the violence in these games could still be significantly contributing to real world violence. I would agree with this. These statistics are mainly there to support my release of aggression point. This point also illustrates how unlikely it would be for violence in video games to actually be contributing to real world violence in a significant way. I don't think my chart covers the military kill rate (I will talk about this soon). Later on in the voting issues, I'll elaborate more on the idea of significance. Video Game's Effects Basically, my opponent attacks my source, as opposed to my argument. I would agree that my source could be considered inaccurate; I'll go ahead and bring up a couple more points to further elaborate on the idea of violent video games being used to release aggression. My first source notes that 42% of boys play video games because it helps them release anger, and 65% of boys say these games help them relax (1). My Gilsdorf source elaborates, ""If some of these men are hopelessly mentally ill, then we need to do all we can to prevent their access to real guns. But sane or depressed, many men feel powerless. Many feel angry. Many feel disengaged. They just want a stake in the action. Video games might be the best outlet they’ve got."" OPPONENT'S CASE Not Born to Kill The first thing to look at here is the difference between video games and these ""killing sessions."" My opponent essentially drops this argument. We have to realize that the video games kids are playing today are quite different from the simulations used in the army. Really, my opponent has only proved that military murder simulations increase violence in the military. This is not the topic we are currently debating. Even if these simulations could actually be compared to common video games today, these activities didn't make officers more willing to shoot because of desensitization (as a result of violence). The reason firing rates went up is because of the implementation of a method known as ""point shooting."" Point shooting was effective (even without a video simulation) because it was similar to real combat situations (3). Essentially, my opponent has yet to prove that these simulations are (a) similar to real video games and (b) the violence factor of this simulation actually causes violence. Desensitize Me My opponent points out some flaws in my desensitization study. Here is why my study really is more accurate. 1. My opponent's study has multiple variables since it involves the actual playing of a video game. Essentially, the competition factor is very present in this study. There is no way of knowing whether the violence, the desensitization, or the competition caused the willingness to push the button. 2. The study basically admits that it shows a correlation, not a causation. Look at this quote directly from the study: ""These relationships do not establish causality, as desensitized children with lower empathy may simply be more drawn to violent games, or a third factor, such as suboptimal parenting practices, may be responsible for this relationship. Potential mediating relationships should also be considered. For example, children who seek highly arousing experiences may be especially drawn to playing violent video games."" and this quote: ""Children’s estimated exposure to video game violence was not associated with aggression vignette responses."" We can't look to a study with multiple variables that shows, at best, a correlation rather than a causation. My study further weakens this point by disproving the correlation between desensitization and violence in video games. My opponent also notes that while aggression is short lived, desensitization lasts a longer time. The thing is, since this study involves individuals actually playing some sort of a game. Obviously, spurts of aggression due to competition (or even violence) can be expected. Just remember, aggression is not the same thing as violence. Dr. Bruce My opponent brings up a new argument known as the ""bystander"" effect. He basically explains that this is caused by desensitization, and will ultimately contribute to real world violence. I'd like to make a couple points: 1. The bystander effect is not a new thing. It has existed way before the time of violent video games. ""In the famous 1964 “Kitty Genovese” incident, a young woman named Kitty Genovese was stabbed to death outside her home in Queens, New York. Many of Kitty’s neighbors heard her desperate screams for help, yet no one called the police until too late (4)."" 2. Let's get to the real question, ""What causes the effect?"" The bystander effect is certainly not caused by desensitization. It is rather caused by a term known as ""diffusion of responsibility."" To clarify my source continues, ""One reason that the bystander effect occurs is the social influence process known as “diffusion of responsibility”. Through numerous studies, psychologists have found that bystanders are less likely to intervene in emergency situations as the size of the group increases."" We can safely conclude that violence in video games does not contribute to such a psychological phenomenon. CONCLUSION Let me bring up a few points to summarize... 1. My opponent has made no empirical claims. This is perhaps one of the most important points. He cannot prove video games significantly contribute to violence if he fails to provide any numbers which show ""significance."" Elaborating on what I said earlier on, all my opponent has shown is an increased kill rate in the military due to kill simulations. In reality, these simulations are not what promote the elevation of the kill rate, rather it is the new training methods (whether they involve videos or not). 2. Video games don't cause desensitization. I have pointed out the various flaws in my opponents study. Essentially, there is no causation has been shown between desensitization and violence in video games. 3. Other factors cause (at best) aggression. There are too many other variables in video games to pinpoint violence in video games as something that significantly contributes to real world violence. 4. Video games can help release aggression. Hence, the lower violence rates. If you, as a reader, do not buy this argument, look to the fact that my opponent's case has not shown any significant contributions from violence in video games outside the military. 5. Already violent people (or at least those who crave violent / arousing experiences) may play violent video games, hence the added violence from gamers. My opponent's desensitization study even suggests this... ""Children who seek highly arousing experiences may be especially drawn to playing violent video games."" For these reasons, vote pro!! Thanks to anyone who reads this :) (1) Cheryl Olson, Lawrence Kutner, Dorothy Warner, Jason Almerigi, Lee Baer, Armand Nicholi, and Eugene Beresin, ""Factors Correlated with Violent Video Game Use by Adolescent Boys and Girls,"" Journal of Adolescent Health, July 2007 (2) http://cognoscenti.wbur.org... (3) http://cdn.paladin-press.com... (4) http://heroicimagination.org..."	PRO	648
648	S6925d38c-A4f577cd	Should children be allowed to play video games on a daily basis	"Framework I thank my opponent for his arguments. I will rebut them, make my own arguments. Debate about if children are allowed to play video games in a daily basis. I am Con, saying no. BoP is on Pro, or if you call it the burden of proof. Preface/ Arguments 1. Time What is the daily average of video games for children? It is 56 minutes. About 1/24 of your whole day. You sleep for 8 hours, 7 hours of school, that is 16 hours. You have another eight hours, and that is for DDO, or computer, and homework. This is day. Nothing special. Because of the games, the day goes quickly. 2. Damage Playing video games damage your eyes [1] [2] [3]. It does tons of damage. You might be blind, then your life gets ad. You can't see the things you used to see. If we do not want these damages, vote for Con. Rebuttals 1. Video games are educational. 6% of video games are educational. Also, almost no kids like educational games. You can do them anywhere. There is no need, and it is not effective because almost no one will use these educational video games. 2. Okay, I will quote his arguments. ""My second reason to believe that children should be allowed to play video games on a daily basis is because of like on summer or Christmas vacation or any break they need something to do besides play outside or read or play board games all the time too much exercise can possibly lead to dehydration."" Okay, the only thing they do is play outside? They can do much other things, and not play video games. Thanks."	CON	649
649	S631d457a-A8e68e31b	Modern video games are a superior storytelling medium to books, cinema, and the spoken word.	"Pro states that game play in video games tell narratives. Truly I don't think it matters. Most people that play video games over reading stories are more concerned with the game play so usually they aren't as concerned with the actual 'story' because they're too focused on other aspects. Only a minority actually bother with the story. The talk about ""the same as saying that books make poor narrative mediums because reading is more important than story telling."" 1. reading is 100% of the books story line, and everything essentially. This is completely different then video games are. 2. Books and video games can't be compared in that way. Pro says ""Con attempts to assert that many video games do not have a plot."" I in no way stated that video games have no plot. There are many video games that don't have a plot, especially among browser games, such as the bloons tower defense games. Or if I were to go into console game, many Wii games such as Super Smash Bro's or Mario Cart, don't really have a plot. I know that major games, especially console games for the PS3 tend to have plots. Although larger games like that are only a small portion of what's out there. Pro states ""much of the enjoyment comes from plot."" This is mostly a minority. The majority of gamers are kids younger then 18. Their opinion generally is not heard. Few few people in the majority care all that much about the plot. But those kids generally are not the ones who bother talking about these games or even making halfway decent reviews. Pro misunderstand my statement that movies and books are more 'high tech', perhaps it was a poor word choice on my part. I guess I'll restate myself. Movies and books solely focus on the plot, generally, where video games tend to cloud the plot with the entertainment value. Since Con requests a restatement on moral values, I'll do so. I originally didn't bother explaining myself and just said that I'll stay with the same argument from earlier (Game play clouding the actual plot, and in this case, the morals used in the story). I don't see in any way how a video game can express the morals of a story any better then a book or movie. Pro states ""The issue is that modern video games create worlds far more massive and detailed than books, movies, or speech can match."" I can argue this. Books describe things, and then the readers mind can easily create this 'world' that's described, since a minds storage can be much, much, greater and detailed then any video game. It also allows the reader to have a bit more freedom to make things realistic in their mind. In a way video games would limit that since you can't make these things in your mind since everything is provided in their own limited graphics. In your labeled '10.' paragraph you think that I've mistaken your previous 4th assertion, I disagree. I just replaced calling 'user input', with the idea of the different outcome. I was just talking about 'timelines' because all games have a limited amount of timeline, each timeline being made based on what user input is chosen. Having these additional options does expand the game and as is shown, gives more options. But it doesn't 'improve' anything, although it does give more game play and time to participate. Many things I didn't bother arguing because I felt that it would be repetitive to go over the same thing when I've already argued similar if not equivalent issues above. I suppose I'll have to wait for you to come back online again. I'll continue to wish you luck."	CON	650
650	Sb6ccf777-Ae8a0c4d5	Video games have more positive benefits than negative ones	Con makes the assertion that someone who plays video games, is trapped in their room and has no social life. That is an assumption that is not supported by any statistics or facts. Someone is just as capable of being social and playing games, as someone who does not play games at all. In fact certain games require you to be social. RPGs teach you team work and utility and coordinating with other uses, while shooters require you to actually move in unison in order to achieve a goal. All require proper communication and the ability to coordinate (especially those online) Con says I provided reasons with no grounding, but I linked to sources that stated and supported what I was referring too. Cognitive behavior is improved along with problem solving capabilities, which can be utilized through puzzle games and other games that require you to do hard objectives. Critical thinking and fast reflexes can be found in shooters and games that make you think on the spot in order to react properly. Awareness comes from paying attention to what is around you on the game, there are studies that support that actual transitions to real life. All of the reasons I supported are cited and supported in the sources below the first round. R1) violence My adversaries only contention against video games are violent video games. He fails to realize that all video games are not violent, and that most studies actually negate his contention. ( http://abc7.com... ) . They act as a catalyst for aggression in a ways, but they are not the primary cause. Teens that commit violence that play video games, often have pre existing problems that are highlighted by playing the video games. Meaning if a person that has psychological problem plays a violent video game , it can have negative effects. The same can be said if he were to go hunting though. The issue is the person not the game itself. Pro has an extra round, id ask him to pa	PRO	651
651	Se8780244-A476fc16f	schools should allow kids to play video games at break	There is many problems with playing video games in between times of needing attention however, as well as other inhreent issues. Firstly, children (and adults) who play videos games have a slight decrease in attention span over the long term. To be honest, this can be combatted easily, and the benefits outweigh the cons when the video games are played during certain times (notably, after all attention required activities are finished). However, playing video games also has a DRASTIC negative impact on the immediate attention span, for about an hour (varying) afterwards. This means that children, when returning from break, will have a GREATLY reduced attention span for which to listen to their teachers and elders, and will learn, proportionately, less. Video games can be used to great effect at schools if they are structured and educational, but during break they will not be, and will be more likely to be unstructured. Moving on, with bullying as prevelant as it is, what are the chances that a child who chooses not to play with friends, but rather to play video games on the computer, will be less bullied? The answer, unlikely, as the child, unless the games are specifically structured and tailored to multiplayer, and other kids are also forced to play multiplayer with him, will be bullied for being an outcast, and will be even more fringe than he already was. Furthermore, while video games can inspire teamwork and cooperation, they much more frequently inspire vitriol and competition. Competition can be very beneficial for a child but, again, the effects are more powerful the sooner after the video game it is, and therefor the child will be much more competitive and aggressive than would be normally appropriate immediately following a break. Plus, there is the issue of the necessity for mobility that children have. The early years are the most important to be physically and mentally active. Video games, while that can be mentally challenging, are not always, and they are most certainly not physical. Yes, they can increase reaction time, as well as a whole slew of other things. But, supplanting them for purely physical or mental activity, when the child (likely being an avid video game player) has a chance at already not getting enough of those activities already is a recipe for obesity, complacency, and overall apathy. A few studies on attention span: http://www.cnn.com... http://www.thetowntalk.com... http://psychcentral.com...	CON	652
652	S631d457a-Adb6ce08e	Modern video games are a superior storytelling medium to books, cinema, and the spoken word.	Well you made the standards kinda high by typing so much. All well, here I go! My argument is rather simple. Many video games, if not most, the game-play is made more important then that of story telling. Many games that are out don't even have a plot! As Pro says, video games tend to be more interactive, and one could learn easier by doing interactive things over not. My argument against this is that, studies show that interactive teachings do work better then non-interactive ones. But people tend to play games for the fun of it, many people, if not most, don't even put a thought forth into the plot. They tend to be more mesmerized by the game-play and 'fun' aspects. Due to this the plot isn't nearly as easily seen by the 'gamers' in comparison to those who were to read a book or watch a movie. In books or movies, the plot is practically the main thing that you're reading or watching it to see. The 'story telling' in it is made to be somewhat obvious and 'high tech' (foreshadowing, ect) Certainly more then games make it anyway. Video games may be the only thing that uses all of the possible learning methods in this discussion, but as I said before, it doesn't matter if one aspect greatly outshines the others. Pro states that with video games one can retain the 'moral lesson' easier, I'll keep the same argument to go against that. The only difference between this 'scope' the Pro talks about in his 2nd assertion, is that you'd generally be playing in a first person view. In my opinion that doesn't give video games an advantage in this topic. Video games have their way to show the scene and story, but so do books, movies, ect. I also want to state that books, and especially movies are better at expressing emotion then video games, which in a way can help them with their story telling. If you can empathize with the characters then you can have a much deeper understanding of what they do. Pro in his 3rd assertion goes into how video games define... everything pretty much. But again, I think that books and movies generally are equal in this way, if not better. They do it in a different way, but generally they put more detail and information into it, so in that way I see them as superior. In his 4th assertion he goes into how video games, in a scene, has different timelines (Using my own words, so hopefully I don't confuse you.) I say different timelines because you can pick a story by doing something in particular in your game and it would take you down one of a few story lines, or timelines. That's just an advantage of the 'first person view' type of thing that video games tend to give you. For one, it doesn't improve how they 'tell the story' it just give you more options. Secondly, books and movies just tend to have a different type of narrative, and that in no way makes them inferior, it just attracts a different audience perhaps. Pro makes the argument that that people don't tend to get addicted to things like books and movies, in comparison to video games. For one it doesn't support the topic of this debate. Two they're addicted to the game-play generally. A example 'MW3' Most people play the campaign once or twice, but then they generally play 10 times that time online. That's 100% unrelated to the plot. People play video games for fun, not the plot. With all of this said I'm comfortable to say that books and movies are not inferior to video games, especially in the 'story telling' aspect, and if anything, they're superior.	CON	653
653	Sa41abadd-A6cc4be28	should violent video games be sold in stores	yes it should it does depend on the person the video games don't choose if you kill a person you do	PRO	654
654	Sc51b1af2-Ac73df0e1	Video games make you violent	"Every person will react different, if you are displeased and you say ""darn"" or verbal violence, that is you, not the game, you actually can say the same things without verbal violence. About the videos... 1st The German kid like I said earlier, he is just impatient 2nd A tiny truth joke: ""Video games don't make us violent, the lag does"" 3rd If you notice, it's not the game at all, it's they losing, impatient people, someone calling the other fat. 4th They don't make you violent for a long term"	CON	655
655	Sf0a808a4-Ad439e0ed	Video-Games Are Beneficial Towards Children	Both Lego's and Minecraft are beneficial. They are just beneficial in different ways. Like you said with Minecraft, you can build up to your imagination. But with Lego's, you aren't looking at a screen and are placing the blocks with your hands. I don't want to lie and say I think Minecraft isn't beneficial and if you would accept my point that Lego's are as well, we can mediate a compromise. Video games are beneficial for children. Not as much as other things as you have said, but they are. And according to the title you have won. Congratulations!	CON	656
656	S69bf66d1-Aa4b0611b	Anita Sarkeesian and Women in Video Games	"I acknowledge the my opponent's terms. For the sake of common courtesy and debate etiquette I won't be presenting any new arguments. I'd like to thank my opponent for such a great debate! My opponent is, again, only partially correct. Like I said in the previous round, a little bit of titillation isn't a bad thing. We all get sexual urges, and trying to totally suppress it is unhealthy. However, my opponent ignores the human element put into play whenever we see someone attractive, and that noticing someone's flattering appearance is not the same thing as objectifying them. Sure, their appearance might be the first thing we notice, but most of us still understand that what we're looking at is another person and we respect them as such. Unless you're in a strip club or looking at someone who's intentionally showing off their ""assets"", gawking and treating women like objects is generally frowned upon (and also considered sexist[1]. Also, my opponent's contention that males are supplementary in games with a majority of female characters has little foundation. For one, there are very few games in the industry where a majority of the characters, that's not to say there are some, but it's a terribly low number compared to games with a majority of male characters. Secondly, while arguably a majority do, not every game where a majority of the cast is male puts females in supplementary roles, Alex Vance being my prime example. So you can't automatically assume that it's always the case with males in games where a majority of the characters are female. A secondary character is not always there to only emphasize the main character, in fact sometimes the exact opposite can be true, like in Bioshock: Infinite and The Last of Us. It was definitely not my intention to misrepresent Mass Effect, and I most certainly don't want to be characterized as making the same criticisms of it that FOX News has. So I'll try to better elaborate my position. It wasn't so much the blue side-boob, the sex itself (which wasn't that graphic) or the story, and unlike FOX I firmly believed they had every right to include sex into the game. The problem is that these kind of scenes in games perpetuate the idea that if your friendly and inventive to someone you like that they are somehow obligated to have sex with you, that you're somehow entitled to it[2]. A lot of Bioware's games are kind of like that, opting to treat sex like the equivalent of the ""shocking moment"" in every Modern Warfare game, basically using it to make their games seem more mature. Mass Effect isn't the only game that's done this, and certainly hasn't done it in the most offensive way. Games like Duke Nuken: Forever and Ride to Hell are some more crude examples; the latter not even attempting to make it look like a parody[3]. My opponent attempts to use Occam's razor to discredit my contention, but misused it by confusing what is pretty well documented evidence as assumptions. Their are few assumptions to be made as far as the existence of sexism within the gaming community is concerned[4][5][6], and while it's true that they market predominantly to a male audience doesn't mean they're intentionally trying to discriminate against women with their games[7]. My opponent isn't wrong when he says that game developers make characters they feel will appeal to their fan base and that they want to see, and that's kind of the problem. Actually, I'd actually argue that the biggest incentive in the tipple-A industry is money, seeing as a lot of the really big titled that are being released (shooters especially) follow formulas just because it's easier, risky and has proved to sell better. What ever the case, it's not an intentional attempt to discriminate or ruin the fun for any one particular group of people (aside from those pesky Commies!). But sadly, despite what their intentions may be, following said generic formula doesn't necessarily make a game appealing or friendly to a female audience. It's that very market-logic that keeps the industry from taking risks and diversifying their characters, and this doesn't just apply to gender... but that's whole other debate. My opponent has decided to skip over most of my contentions in round five, which is alright with me for the sake of sticking to video games. However, the points I made were largely in response to my opponent's points in his second paragraph in round four. He also fails to specify about ""nuances"" he mentions as between the genders. The fact remains that, while women are becoming more accepted into the workplace, there is still a lot of discrimination as far as getting into upper management and the amount of money they get for how hard they work is concerned[8]. My opponent has made his point quite well; but as I've stated in the previous round, Anita Sarkeesian's video series isn't finished yet and therefore it's impossible to ascertain exactly how much money will be put into it. And seeing as I don't agree with everything Sarkeesian has said, I'm not going to bother defending her character. I'd much prefer to focus of the fact that her fame is the result of the publicity she got courtesy of the people who hate her, that her arguments, while not wholly factual, are based on something that's very true and very important, and the fact that she has the freedom to say whatever she very well pleases in her videos so long as it doesn't violate Youtube's terms of service. I never claimed that her entire critical base was sexist, I honestly don't think they are. In fact, I'd go as far as saying that most of her critics aren't sexist... only a fringe group of trolls and bullies who like to hide behind a computer and type threats and insults when they get defensive. Contrary to my opponent's contention, the sexual and misogynist harassment which followed Sarkeesian's kickstarter have been well documented. Her phone number and address had been posted on hate sites, numerous sexist and vulgar pictures and captioned images of her have been made and distributed online (including photoshopped images of her being raped), her website was hacked, a beat-up game was made where you get to punch her in the face (we covered this already) and people who supported her were threatened[9][10][11]. These were not isolated incidents, there was a very harsh backlash against her from trolls and bullies online after the Kickstarter controversy. There's little doubt that there was a misogynist element within the cyber mob that attacked her. My opponent stated it himself in round four, it wasn't vague. He clearly stated; ""If you want to say that the insults were directed at the fact that she's a woman: well of course they were."" That's not taken out of context, his reasoning and words are still presented on round four for everyone to see. The people who attacked Sarkeesian clearly directed the bulk of their attack at the fact she was female, and that's clearly sexist. In conclusion, Anita Sarkeesian isn't the epitome of feminism or a representative for all ladies (and guys) who are upset with how women are portrayed in games. Her infamy within the gaming community and all of the exposure and money she gained from it were the result of a very small, but clearly vocal, group of people on the Internet who sexually harassed and threatened her. Because of that, she had become one of the first high profile people to really challenge our community, which isn't a bad thing. The medium of gaming the culture which has sprung up around it is still pretty young, we still have a lot of growing up to do as a community and we shouldn't be ashamed or get defensive over it. Perhaps most important to note is that Anita's videos aren't going to change anything in the industry. The evil feminists aren't trying to take away any games, and Sarkeesian's videos will in no way stop some tipple-a industry from making a game with tons of burly white men in combat armor or cute girls in revealing bikinis with breast physics. My opponent clearly loves video games, I love video games too, and I'm sure many of the readers probably love them as well, but that doesn't mean we can't criticize or acknowledge the negative aspects of them. Again I'd like to thank my opponent for debating with me; it's been fun! SOURCES: [1]http://www.merriam-webster.com... [2]http://www.escapistmagazine.com... [3]videohttp://www.youtube.com... [4]http://www.giantbomb.com... [5]http://www.bbc.co.uk... [6]http://www.adweek.com... [7]videohttp://www.youtube.com... [8]http://www.huffingtonpost.com... [9]http://www.newstatesman.com... [10]http://www.wired.com... [11]http://www.thestar.com..."	PRO	657
657	Sd94ca2d5-A95ae50e1	The content of Video Games	Violence has lasting effects. Even if we limit ourselves to discussing violence that took place in this country, we can still clearly see the aftermath, the demoralizing aftermath. According to the free on-line dictionary, to demoralize means: 1. To undermine the confidence or morale of; dishearten. 2. To put into disorder; confuse. 3. To debase the morals of; corrupt. There was a time when people trusted each other more. We did not lock doors like we do now, our children freely played in the yard and with other kids in the neighborhood, citizens could walk into government buildings without going through security checks, youths were not banned from school just because they carried pocket knives. I miss those days. Instead we now mistrust each other. Almost each household is equipped with a shredder. we increasingly feel isolated as if each person were an island smacked in an ocean filled with people. Ironic, isn't it? Playing violent video games help us? How? I think in the hands of mentally stable teens, this could be a release or just an acting out of the aggression that's part of human nature. In the hands of mentally unstable people, the violence just might spill over and become real. It's prudent that we do our best to avoid such unpleasant outcome. I say let us design and play peaceful games and leave all the violence behind, virtual or real.	PRO	658
658	S69bf66d1-A407f3a56	Anita Sarkeesian and Women in Video Games	"There's no doubt that sexism existThere's no doubt that sexism exists for both male and females, but that's not what I'm really talking about in this debate. I don't believe that sexism effects men the same way if effects women though. My opponent brings up an argument that we see a lot whenever the topics of sexism, misogyny and the unrealistic portrayals of women in gaming come up. I actually do have a problem with how males are portrayed in video games, but it's a different problem and can't really be compared to the portrayals of women. The difference is that those ""ultimate males"" are not there to serve as sex appeal for a female audience, but rather serve as self-image fantasies for the male players. Also, many of the characters you listed illustrate just how much more variety of body-types there are for men in games than for women, from the feminine Link to the fat and short plumber Mario. Also, heroic, stoic and being ""bad-*ss"" (Debate.org wouldn't let me post my arguments unless I censored it, sorry!) are positive qualities that very few female characters in video games actually have because they serve as nothing more than shallowly written token-characters or sex dolls to be objectified. Again, there are exceptions (Alex Vance! <3). While we're still on the topic, it's worth noting that mass media and pop cultures portrayal of women negatively effects women in the real world socially than it does men[1]. Our society still judges females based on their appearance, and the way we portray them in gaming only reinforces the real-life problem[2][3]. I agree that $150,000 is a lot of money for a project of this particular nature, but keep in mind that it's WAY over the amount of money she asked for, which was $6,000 dollars. Otherwise it's hard to really determine how much money she needed, equipment, games, editing and time spent making the videos all considered. There are a lot of factors that come into making videos, ultimately costs are going to come down to what kind of video you want to make and what quality it is[4]. I can personally assure my opponent that he will not find any such generalizations from me, though I can't help but feel he is trying to paint such threats as not being that big of a deal. That said, since we both agree that the insults and threats against Sarkeesian were indeed sexist, I'd like to shift the argument over to their implications. My opponent has said himself that the anonymity of the Internet has fostered an environment within the gamer community that fosters such sexist and misogynistic behavior. If that is indeed true, than Sarkeesian's criticisms of sexism in gaming are only better justified, since the industry isn't really doing anything to positively change anything. SOURCES: [1]http://books.google.com... [2]http://blog.pricecharting.com...; [3]http://mutantsupermodel.com...; [4]http://www.indigoprod.com..."	PRO	659
659	Sd08d61c8-A8b081bf8	Video games are benifical to people of every age.	"ok I would like to state about the first agurment that he made agianst my case. He says ""Many video games help with this also, not all games involve you just being ""lazy"" as you put it."" then he states about Wii fit that that is a game that helps with physical actives. That is one game one game that the gaming industry has come out becuase 1/3 kids are becoming obese, when they say that them being like this is from eating and play Videogames. So if these video games cause more bad then good then why are we will to put our kids at this risk. And if these people that i have given examples have given you and there are many more people say that more people are getting fat with videogames how can this help with you hand-eye cooridation? I don't believe it can. static.dpsk12.org/gems/dsa/Videogamesleadtodownfallofhumanity.doc www.huffingtonpost.com/dr-michael-j-breus/sleepless-kids-become-fat_b_143282.html Onto his second agrument he just keeps keeps stating all these games that he says are social well first of all you don't know who those people are you have a username. And second of all most of the games that he states are violent as i stated in my first agrument i state that violent games lead to more violence so that goes with my case. And third if you don't know who these people are how can you trust them it is just like being on the internet and you are in a chat room you don't know who is on the other side it could be you friend or it could be some werid person that could hurt you i am not saying that every person on there is going to be like that but you can never really know who is really on ther other side. and his third statment he didn't touch my agruments so those will go thru and he can't bring them back up. And onto my case he states that it make kids happy or calm them down when they play these voilent video games. Well here are some websites that prove my point mentalhealth.about.com/cs/familyresources/a/vidgameviolence.htm www.asiaone.com/Digital/Features/Story/A1Story20090310-127311.html www.mtv.com/news/articles/1507890/20050818/index.jhtml?headlines=true csis.pace.edu/~scharff/learningcommunity/studentann/violentgames.doc redblueamerica.com/truthornot/2008-04-17/do-video-games-grand-theft-auto-cause-violent-behavior-2748 there is alot more of sites stating that it does have an effect on kids. So having these kids just play violen games all day is just the same as having them all trained to kill. and for the rest of my case he didn't touch so those will go thru this debate and he can't bring them back up. You must look at whose case stood up more. Mine has stood up agianst his agruments. Also you must look at the facts i have given you countless examples and he gives you five. I have the facts to back me up and so you must look to my case mine is the stronger case."	CON	660
660	S2777b793-A17279335	"""Cheese"" is, on balance, detrimental to video games"	I'll be taking the position that cheese is not detrimental to video games. My opponent will take the stance that cheese is detrimental. Cheese is defined as a non-meta strategy that typically focuses on abusing a certain aspect of the game or an aspect of something in the game to easily win. Some examples would be the recently remodeled Master Yi in League of Legends, as well as the infamous Cannon Rush in Starcraft II. Meta is defined as popular and/or effective strategies to winning a game. BOP is on my opponent, and as such he can use the first round to put out some arguments. If he chooses not to it's not that big of a deal, but y'know xD GL HF	CON	661
661	S1ff4635e-A187ae1a0	Ban on sale of violent video games to minors	"Thank you for your quick response. ""There have been no scientific studies which have been able to prove a link between violent video games and teen violence. Therefore,with the lack of any credible evidence, the government should not prohibit the sale of violent video games to minors."" Here is your evidence: http://www.soc.iastate.edu... ----> Please read this carefully. Argument: My opponent failed to provide his case thus going against the rules of the debate. In conclusion, My opponent looses on account of failure to follow the rules. Unless my opponent presents his case in the next round, then he looses. Hope to hear from you soon."	PRO	662
662	S59470aa6-Ad598fa9	Video Games teach you life skillz	"Through your controller, you are Link, the valiant adventurer, navigating a virtual icy cave in search of a coveted Heart Piece. In order to uncover the prize, though, you must figure out three of the cave's puzzles consisting of several large blocks of ice. After scratching your head in bewilderment -- and maybe even letting out an exasperated sigh -- you move the blocks in the correct north, east, south and west combinations and hear the sweet sound of victory. You've mastered the challenge, and at last, the Heart Piece is yours! Solving a difficult video game puzzle is not only exhilarating, but the hard work and knowledge it takes to succeed can make you feel pretty smart, too. The games in the ""The Legend of Zelda"" series aren't the only ones that can teach life skills like perseverance and critical thinking. Competitive sports games like ""Madden NFL"" and puzzle-heavy games like ""Portal 2"" teach kids the importance of good decision-making, planning and communicating effectively. And that's only where the learning begins -- there are numerous video games that are capable of teaching much more. However, a note for parents: Be careful to pay attention to the Entertainment Software Rating Board's (ESRB) rating of a game before you allow your child to play it. Like movie ratings, the ESRB reviews and rates games according to their content. The ratings are: EC (Early Childhood): Games with this rating are suitable for children 3 and older. E (Everyone): Games with this rating are suitable for anyone 6 or older. E10+ (Everyone 10+): Games with this rating are suitable for anyone 10 or older. T (Teen): Games with this rating are suitable for anyone 13 or older. M (Mature): Games with this rating are only suitable for persons 17 or older. AO (Adults Only): Games with this rating are only suitable for those aged 18 and above. RP (Rating Pending): Games with this rating have not yet been reviewed by the ESRB. This rating generally only appears on marketing and advertising for games that have yet to be released. Click over to the next page to find out which games can improve kids' social interactions and problem-solving skills. All info found at http://electronics.howstuffworks.com... I wish my opponent the best of luck"	PRO	663
663	Sf47d4ad1-A43621542	In general, violence in video games has not caused real-world violence.	"I'll start out by saying I agree with my opponent's definition. I'll use this round to address each of the studies my opponent has cited in their case. Survey Study There are a couple reasons that this study does nothing to prove my opponent's point. Firstly, this is not a study over whether or not video games cause violence. It is a study over whether or not people believe video games cause violence. In the chart my opponent has provided, we can see that more people think video games cause violence than not. This argument can't be taken into account because it is a logical fallacy known as bandwagon. (assuming something is true because many people believe it is) The article linked by my opponent seemed to show that those who play video games are less worried about negative affects. So, it is quite obvious that this article is not actually claiming that violence in video games is harmful. The article ends with this... ""It is possible that concerns about games could fade away in much the same way that fears about rock music, comic books, and radio dramas dissolved when these forms of entertainment gained wider acceptance."" Time Study This study notes that video games (even if played for a short period of time) can cause permanent changes in the brain and aggression. (Note: My opponent says violence, but the article says aggression) I showed in R2 that violence and aggression are not actually the same thing. Aggression is an intention, violence is an action. Moreover, nothing about this study suggests it was the violence in the video games that resulted in the aggression. There is a good chance that the competitive factor so often found in violent video games was what caused such feelings of aggression among the children. American Psychological Association notes (after observing several studies), ""More competitive games produced greater levels of aggressive behavior than less competitive games, no matter how much violence was in the games. (1)"" Remember, my opponent must prove that violence factor in video games results in real-world violence. Fox News Study This study is very similar to the time study, so I'll go ahead and cross-apply what I said earlier. I would like to note that my opponent's source concedes that this study is flawed. The source says, ""However, experts not involved with the study say that the research has flaws, and does not add anything meaningful to the debate over whether violent video games increase aggression, which has been a contentious issue."" Grand Theft Childhood My opponent cites a study that explains how 60% of middle schoolers that beat up someone played at least one M rated video game. I'd like to reference something I said in R2, ""It turns out that delinquent peers, depression, and an abusive family environment account for actual violence incidents…"" If a middle schooler is beating up their classmates, it is more likely to be because of the reasons I have listed. In order for this study to count, my opponent will need to explain exactly how, in this study, the violence factor of video games is contributing to this violence among kids. School Shooting Study Page four of my opponent's source explains that many factors contribute towards school shootings and that not one factor is decisive. Here we can see that violence in video games alone does not cause such shootings to come about. Most likely, other factors are coming into play as I have shown in previous evidence. Just because a shooter plays violent video games doesn't mean that is what caused them to commit such a violent crime. Moreover, this resolution does say ""in general."" School shootings are very rare. Even if literally every school shooting was a result of violence in video games, this would not be enough to cause me to not fulfill my BoP. Video Game and Homicide Correlation This chart compares video game sales in Europe and America, as well as homicide in Europe and America. It important to realize that we don't know exactly what caused this correlation. My opponent has not proved that violence in video games directly have caused this link. This is a logical fallacy known as false cause. Essentially, this correlation could be caused by anything. For example, Europe and the US have different gun control policies, different laws, and different atmospheres. Anything could cause this correlation. In the chart I provided, I was not aiming to show a direct correlation, rather, I was aiming to show that video game sales certainly are not causing violence to go up. (1) https://www.apa.org..."	PRO	664
664	Sccb645e6-Afafa357a	Video games are ruining our young men	"How many times have I encountered a young man using horrid profanity, and using misogynistic language towards female players? It's so much it's uncountable. It happens too much and it is happening too much. I feel like these video games are turning boys even more perverted and misogynistic than they already are. Now, I'm not implying all boys are like this, for I know many male gamers who do not act this way towards video games. Male gamers chanting ""Get back in the kitchen!"" ""Make me sandwich!"" And let's not forget the sexual harassment, that is very common. And let's not also forget these are YOUNG men saying this, which mean's they are going to grow up and think these things are okay. Do you ever see female gamers act this way towards male gamers? Well it could happen but definitely not as much as the male players."	PRO	665
665	Sbed8bb66-A51c390d1	Feminism is ruining video games	Well with the increase of organizations like gamer gate... https://en.wikipedia.org... It is evident that groups like these are influencing the production of the games that we play. There isn't any statistics I can pull up, but we can infer this since the topic of women's depiction in video games has been a hot topic for quite some time. As far as Dragon Age is concerned I will admit I have never played it, but you proved my point by referring to it. Dragon Age is a new intellectual property, with its own lore to create. Now if they want a strong women influence then that is fine, and it is viable. Sure in the Medevil times plenty of women were just as strong as their superiors, so it fits, its not an easy pander option. Its credible But in my example with an established game like Mortal Kombat they just decided to change the story drastically in favour of a female antagonist being the main hero. Now, my issue is not that a women can't be a hero, save the world, etc. But there has to be a viability within the context of the narrative, its what makes something credible. In the Motal Kombat world full of demons and ninjas, the youngest female character has to save the world. The question I ask is why? I know its up to the developers of the game but was it needed for the story, or was it just for the sake of pandering to feminist women who always want a perfect female dominated story? With already established male hero's there were plenty of options to satisfy the fans, and make the game a credible story. As far as the Metal Gear Solid issue ok yes I said her body, not clothing. Still why the controversy over that character? That characters attitude and personality is well represented with what she is wearing, it really isn't any more obscene than Dead or Alive characters. Even in real life women dress like her all the time, rip off pants, tube tops. Female wrestlers wear that type of garment, so why is it even an issue? Its only an issue because feminist women are insecure, and that personal emotion bring the value down of the game. Imagine if every game had to politically pander to a certain group, then stories won't be interesting, and lose the creativity and imagination that games are know for. Mainly what I am saying is that feminist feel entitled to point out characters that they deem inappropriate, but the majority of gamers, and even society, don't agree with their values. The opinions of the least common denominator takes precedence over the majority of fans of the medium.	PRO	666
666	S631d457a-Abc4c24d0	Modern video games are a superior storytelling medium to books, cinema, and the spoken word.	"First, I would like to thank my opponent for accepting this challenge. I look forward to our discourse. Finally, please forgive any errors in this initial argument, I am up against a deadline in ""real life"" so I haven't had to proofread. ASSERTION 1: The highly interactive nature of video games cannot be effectively duplicated by books, cinema, or the spoken word and, because research shows that humans learn most effectively by doing, video games are more capable of creating engaging environments that draw users into a continuing narrative structure while simultaneously imparting information that will be retained over the long term. Sources: 1. How People Learn: (see statistics on adult retention at the bottom) http://www.extension.umn.edu... Argument: Research indicates that human beings learn and retain information most effectively when they combine all of the available modes of learning. These are visual, auditory, and kinesthetic. Video games are the only one of the four mediums under discussion that combines all three of these components. In fact, the advent of motion based input systems for modern game consoles has vastly increased the kinesthetic potential for video games. Books and movies combine visual and auditory learning modes but lack any kinesthetic component. The spoken word offers only auditory input to the user. Therefore, research supports the proposition that video games are superior learning tools to the other narrative mediums in this dispute. This status as superior learning tools shows the reasons that video games are more successful at accomplishing three of the four defined goals of a narrative medium. First, video games more effectively engage the user because, by combining all three types of learning, all possible users are able to experience the narrative in their preferred format. Second, video games are more successful at imparting a moral or lesson because the user will retain the moral or lesson far more effectively than with other mediums. Finally and for the same reasons, video games are more effective at imparting general information to their users. ASSERTION 2: The scope of modern video games cannot be effectively replicated by books, cinema, or the spoken word and this scope creates an environment that increases user engagement by allowing the user to easily regulate how much information they receive. Sources: 1. Large Video Game Worlds: (click on the jpeg) http://www.geekosystem.com... 2. Length of Fallout 3: http://www.switched.com... Argument: Many of the most successful modern video games create massive game worlds that encompass literally miles of territory, hundreds of characters, and thousands of possible events. However, these massive worlds also retain their clear narrative structure. For example, Fallout 3 can take dozens upon dozens of hours to complete if you do everything. This approach will produce a deep understanding of the background of the Fallout 3 world, its characters, and the events that occur in it. Alternatively, the main narrative can be completed (and clearly comprehended) easily in a fraction of that time. The end result of this process is that the user can intensely experience a video game world and its narrative in whatever level of detail most effectively maintains their engagement. This variable scope is something that books, cinema, and the spoken word cannot easily replicate. First, it would be almost impossible for any of these other mediums to convey a world that is literally hundreds of miles wide in the detail that video games can. The resulting product would become so unwieldy as to be useless. Additionally, the narrative structure of any book, movie, or oral story that attempted to convey a world in equal scope to that offered by a video game would almost certainly lose its narrative core because the user could not easily select to ignore the additional content and proceed directly to the critical narrative points. Second, even if it is argued that books, cinema, and speech can be created in varying formats that the user can select in order to determine the level of detail they desire, this is still inferior to a video game which requires only one format to accomplish this same level of engagement. ASSERTION 3: Video games are more effective at accomplishing the accepted methods of creating engaging narrative worlds. Sources: 1. Creating a Realistic Fantasy World: http://www.writing-world.com... Argument: A comprehensive and engaging world is created by (1) Defining the Physical World (2) Defining the Rules of [the World] and (3) Defining a Consistent Reality. Video games by their very nature accomplish all three of these tasks because they have computer driven engines that teach define the world, the rules of the world, and keep the worlds reality consistent. While the other available mediums can accomplish these three tasks in much more indirect and less effective ways, the ease with which modern video games can do so makes it far easier for them to create the engaging narrative worlds that maintain audience attention. ASSERTION 4 Because video games can vary their responses to the actions of the user, they are more effective at producing engagement and teaching a moral lesson. Sources: 1. Video Games, Reinforcement, & Learning: http://www.cs.lafayette.edu... 2. Video Game Addiction: http://www.webmd.com... Argument: A basic understanding or human psychology indicates that people learn very effectively through various manners of reinforcement. Video games are the only one of the four mediums under discussion that can easily vary reinforcement to user actions. Because of this, they are much more effective at both maintaining engagement and teaching a moral. The recent surge of concern regarding video game addition is a strong indication of this truth. This addictive quality is directly related to the ability of video games to adjust narrative outcomes to the actions of the user. It is exceedingly rare to hear anyone discuss the dangers of becoming addicted to books, movies, or listening to stories. In contrast, cases of video game users dying from over-engagement are becoming more and more frequent. While I obviously do not argue that this trait is a positive for video games, I do assert that it is clear proof of the greater ability of video games to create user engagement, one of the fundamental purposes of a narrative in this debate. Additionally, the fact that video games can change their structure to respond to user actions makes them more effective for teaching a moral. At best, books, movies, and the spoken word can simulate negative impacts on the user. In contrast, video games can actually create such negative impacts. Instead, of simply telling pirates that their actions are bad or could have negative consequences (as other mediums are limited to doing), a video game like Earthbound can actually use strong, selective negative reinforcement to teach this moral. The video game Earthbound is a perfect example. If this SNES game was pirated, then the game actively changed itself to teach the user that such actions can harm them. At its most extreme, the game deleted the players save file right before the ultimate climax of the game. This costs the pirate literally dozens of hours of work and, given the level of affinity that gamers feel for their games, is a harsh penalty much more effective for teaching the moral lesson that piracy is bad than could be accomplished by any other medium. Conclusion: For each of the above reasons, video games are more effective at accomplishing the goals of a narrative medium as defined for this debate and the resolution is affirmed."	PRO	667
667	S50d6e53b-A7a0c1f4f	Violent Video Games Should Be Banned	I will allow my opponent to make the first argument. They should provide several pieces of evidence, Explain why they think violence promotes aggressive behavior and by what standard a game should be banned by, And try to explain why my side (There is no correlation between violent video games and aggressive behavior, Thus they should not be banned) is incorrect. Format - Affirmative argument Negative argument & rebuttal Affirmative rebuttal of the rebuttal Negative final argument, Conclusion Affirmative final argument, Conclusion Best of luck to my opponent. May the best argument win.	CON	668
668	Sb1a6f17a-Ab372f529	Violence in video games does not significantly contribute to real world violence.	"Thank you Wylted for your arguments. I'll go ahead and attack each of my opponent's claims. Trained to Kill Here, my opponent basically explains the arguments that he will run during the debate. He brings up two points: 1. Kids are desensitized by playing video games. 2. This desensitization contributes to violence. By the end of this debate, I aim to prove both of these things untrue. Not Born to Kill For this point, my opponent explains that humans do not like killing. He gives an example of the kill rates before and after the beginning of training soldiers with killing simulations he claims that are similar to some of the video games played today. Here is why this argument doesn't hold up. Firstly, we have to realize that these killing simulations are not as similar to the popular video games children play as my opponent makes them out to be. Shooting targets while listening to ""kill kill kill"" over and over in one's head is more likely to result in acts of violence than popular video games such as Call of Duty and Grand Theft Auto. Gilsdorf explains, ""They offer a hunt/shoot/kill scenario as a way to solve problems (1)."" So we see that today's violent video games provide a scenario that involves thinking and problem solving rather than just repetitive killing. Another thing to look at is the various factors involved in this killing simulation besides violence. Ultimately, a system that rewards points will lead to some degree of competition. This is part of what may have caused the added motivation from the soldiers to kill. It may seem a bit extreme to suggest that competition leads to violence (or in the case of the military, murder). Psychology Today explains, ""Competition among men leads to a high level of violence (murder, assault, and battery) among them (2)."" Essentially, men are motivated to be more violent due to various sources of competition (such as women or sports). Killing simulations that promote competition can have the same effect. So, it may not necessarily be the violence in the simulations that made the kill rates go up; it could be the competitive factor. Desensitize Me My opponent begins by explaining that video games desensitize individuals. However, from a psychological standpoint, this is not necessarily the case. A study was conducted by Reyerson University. Two large groups (active gamers and non-gamers) were shown various images with good, bad, and neutral connotations. Many of these images could be considered violent. It was hypothesized that the gamers would be less sensitive to the bad pictures, especially the violent ones. However, it turned out that both groups had similar reactions. Bowen notes at the end of the experiment, ""The findings indicate that long-term emotional memory is not affected by chronic exposure violent video games (3)."" My opponent's next point brings up various figures of authority who support the idea that video games significantly contribute to real world violence. This is a common logical fallacy known as appeal to authority. Just because someone important believes something, doesn't mean that the belief is correct. This point ultimately falls because no evidence is provided as to *why* these people support con's stance. Looking at my opponent's last point, we can see a study is cited that is rather similar to mine above. There are a couple problems with this study: 1. The sample size is very small. 30 people (probably 15 gamers and 15 non gamers) is not enough to measure whether or not video games desensitize (or cause violence). 2. This study involves a large amount of competition. This is what really makes this study invalid. The competition is what could really be promoting the regular gamers to push the button. When constantly being exposed to competition via video games, one is more likely to show aggression, as I have proven in my constructive. So, rather than the aggression being caused by video game violence / desensitization, it is caused by the regular competition provided by video games. Dr. Bruce My opponent addresses some claims made by Dr. Bruce Perry; I'll go ahead and cover each the claims that are relevant to this debate. 1. Desensitization causes violence (desensitization comes from video games). I'll begin by cross applying my point that explains how video games do not result in desensitization. What I'm going to focus on is the claim that desensitization causes violence. Let's take a look at exactly what desensitization is. It can be defined as, ""the potential for reduced responsiveness to actual violence caused by exposure to violence in the media."" So, desensitization (if indeed caused by video games) results in reduced responsiveness to actual violence, not violent crimes themselves. For this point to stand, my opponent must prove that (a) video games actually desensitize individuals and (b) desensitization significantly contributes to violence. 2. Video games help kids become efficient killers. Now, I would agree to an extent that video games are a way of teaching kids how to handle various combat situations. However, this does not mean that such a game will give kids the desire to use an actual gun. I'd like to bring up my point about releasing aggression from my constructive: ""Logically, if violence in video games makes inmates less violent, they won't have an opposite affect when it comes to kids."" If children are interested it weapons and violence, it is much better to allow them to play video games than to let them store up such aggressive feelings up to the point where they can gain access to a real weapon. My first source continues, ""If some of these men are hopelessly mentally ill, then we need to do all we can to prevent their access to real guns. But sane or depressed, many men feel powerless. Many feel angry. Many feel disengaged. They just want a stake in the action. Video games might be the best outlet they’ve got (1)."" My opponent ends this point by explaining that video games are effective in teaching by showing an example of a man who saved lives using a technique he learned in a video game. The problem with this point is that it actually has nothing to do with video games teaching violent practices. The given video game in this example has promoted something useful, as opposed to violence. Fact or Fiction This last point does nothing to further my opponent's case. My opponent explains that a large amount of people cannot tell the difference between reality and fantasy saying that, ""These people are at particular risk of going too far after being pushed (by video games)."" I have proved through my rebuttal that video games don't actually give this extra push; rather, they can discourage it in some cases (through aggression release). To sum everything up... The violence in video games isn't what actually causes violence. What really causes violence is various factors such as delinquent peers, depression, abusive family, and (as I have stressed on in my rebuttal) competition. Video games can give already aggressive individuals a way to release their aggression. Surprisingly, video games don't actually cause desensitization; moreover, desensitization hasn't been proven to cause violence. For these reasons, I am pro. (1) http://cognoscenti.wbur.org... (2) http://www.psychologytoday.com... (3) http://www.newswise.com... (4) Freedman, J.L. (2003). Media Violence and its effect on aggression: assessing the scientific evidence. Canada: University of Toronto Press Incorporated."	PRO	669
669	S8ae69f16-A858b60b0	Video games and/or simulations are an efficient form of training and education.	The Pro did not give any definition so I shall provide it. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Simulation- The act or process of pretending. http://dictionary.reference.com...+ Video game- Any of various games played using a microcomputer with a keyboard and often joysticks to manipulate changes or respond to the action or questions on the screen. http://dictionary.reference.com... Efficient- Performing or functioning in the best possible manner with the least waste of time and effort. http://dictionary.reference.com... Training- The education, instruction, or discipline of a person or thing http://dictionary.reference.com... Education- The act or process of imparting or acquiring particular knowledge or skills, as for a profession. http://dictionary.reference.com... -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- I will state that the traditional way of teaching is better than Video games and simulation in the second round.	CON	670
670	Sb6ccf777-Af558db04	Video games have more positive benefits than negative ones	"Since side Proposition has not posted any definitions to set up the debate, I will take on the task: Definitions: Video Games are games that are played by a human interacting with objects on the screen via a user interface, such as buttons on a console, controller or touchscreen buttons on a phone. Case thrust: Video games as a whole encourage negative behaviours in players. The side that wins the debate will be the side that can show how each effect of video gaming is more detrimental/helpful to players and to society in general. Substantives: 1) Inherent harm (Round 1) 2) Violent video games (Round 2) Rebuttals: 1) ""they do"" Firstly, this is not true as video games have a whole host of negative side effects not only physiologically but mentally and psychologically, as I will explain later in my substantives; such as increased risk of myopia, encouraging anti-social behaviour and subconscious negative influences. Even if all this is untrue, this substantive is literally only 2 words. Unaided by any logic, and ungrounded in real life examples, this point can be dismissed as one that is untrue and cannot be taken seriously 1) Inherent harm a) Anti-social behaviour The idea is that video games encourage people to spend excessive time gaming, thus reducing important time spent with family and friends. Many people buy games because they are appealing to them, suggesting that these games are more appealing than interaction with friends and family. So this means that they have subconsciously placed these games OVER this interaction. This is bad because you are then unable to maintain meaningful relationships with family and friends, which important because maintaining them are essential to preserving the family, the building block of society b) Increased risk of myopia Having proved to you that video games are being placed in higher priority than social interactions, this means that protracted length of time will be spent gaming, leading to increased risk for myopia."	CON	671
671	S6925d38c-Aabdd5f3c	Should children be allowed to play video games on a daily basis	I believe that children should be allowed to play video games on a daily basis because some video games are educational such as sports games like math adding and percentages.	PRO	672
672	Sbed8bb66-A6988609b	Feminism is ruining video games	Well since this is the final round and I have no points from my opponent to counter I will say this. I am all for equality in all aspects of life. If you work hard for it, then you deserve it. As far as video game story lines are concerned, the same rules apply. You can be a female or a male protagonist and have whatever story you want. But the story you give the audience has to make sense of the context of the story. Don't just have a woman beat out all the men in the story line with no issues, dilemmas, or emotional struggle. Again I said context. If it is a game set in a cartoonish world where there is no real continuous story line (like Mario Games) then sure do what you like. But when you try to present a serious story line set in a fictional world parallel to our own, where we can dictate what is possible or not, then it is best to not pander just to do it. When you pander it degrades the material and gets unnecessary attention.	PRO	673
673	Sd82809b-A8239b7a0	Video Games, Bad or Good	I would like to point that this was a direct challenge. I'm not sure why. Because I don't know this dude. Nor have I even been active on this site for the last week or two. I'm sorry, do I know you? Have we met in a past life? Is there some kind of agenda or rationale as to why I was directly challenged to such a random debate? I don't recall offering strong dissidenting opinions against video games either on this site or another. Or is this one of those double secret tournament debates where you think that you've stumbled upon some easy win noob to cherry pick. Because if that's the case I will kindly recommend that you first preread the beatdown I gave ObiWan. I'm sorry Obi, I think you're a good guy and all but you insulted my pride when you sent me that challenge. Regardless... Sure, I'll argue the opposite of whatever the heck you argue. But don't think this won't get weird because it already has.	CON	674
674	Sf3ba2c53-A72db4b8c	Do you think video games are good for kids/teens!	"Since my opponent have not defined ""video games"", I will first define it using Merriam-Webster. ""An electronic game in which players control images on a television or computer screen"" The definition of two other sources, respectively Wikipedia and Oxford Dictionaries, reaffirm the key words, 'game', 'electronic', 'control', and 'display'. Put simply, it is a form of interactive entertainment utilizing a screen to provide display and feedback. This is a popular debate that has been going on for long, and the very fact that it exists as a debate means that there are valid points on both sides of it. Therefore, the task at hand is to determine its net benefit/harm. Video games, as per the definitions above, contain a wide range of possible qualifying results - puzzle to arcade to adventure, X-boxes to computers to iPads, installed software to discs to online games. As a result, to consider their net benefit or the lack thereof we must consider all types of those that exist. Now, as example, my opponent included a singular game, Minecraft, as his evidence that video games are beneficial to children. Yet that is not representative of the overall population of video games. Much of the video games made today are of crude quality because of ease of making (just take into account the numerous versions of flappy bird) incomparable to the giants such as Minecraft that explicitly stands out in the gaming industry. For the sake of reference purposes, lets crudely categorize the existing types of video games. Puzzle games, (casual [2048, flow], arcade [Monument Valley, Portal], point-and-click [The Room, Machinarium]), adventure/action [Zork, Grand Theft Auto], strategy [Plants vs. Zombies, Pokemon], arcade genre [Angry Birds and Tiny Tower], role-playing (RPG) [Final Fantasy, HALO], multi-player online role playing games (MMORPG) [League of Legends, EVE], and a genre which I would like to simply call 'Run' games (for want of a better word) and those include games such as Temple Run and Smash Hit. And finally, simulations of many (if not all) of physical games such as Monopoly, Tic-Tac-Toe and chess. Hopefully with this overview of the nature of video games, my points will be understood better, and my opponent can keep them in mind as I go over my points. Let us consider the possible benefits of video games towards kids and/or teens. My opponent presents a variety of commonly-heard points: improves education, imagination, hand-eye coordination, creativity, and relativity to technology. I will now rebut each point in turn. The points education, imagination, and creativity are very specifically dependent on a certain type of video game-that being, games like Minecraft that allow freedom in its gameplays, allowing for player creativity and widespread application (including education) purposes. In reality, those games are exceedingly few. Consider the above list of video game genres - how many of them actually can be used for purposes of education? I have heard valid claims that games such as Portal and Minecraft contain widespread classroom applicances and are already in use in some cases, but for most other games - precious few can say the same. Most games let the player play in a world strictly defined by the designer, e.g. the path only ever turns right/left/forward and the player only runs forward (Templerun), each plant can only be put in the rectangle-grid (Plants vs. Zombies), the player can only go around in a limited set of locations specifically defined (any point-and-click game). MMORPGs, due to their interactive nature, are less strict in that sense, and while they cannot be used for educational purposes, does account for the creativity and and imagination parts of the answer - that will be addressed later On the point that games contribute to hand-eye coordination, I again ask my opponent to refer to the categories above - how many of them help contribute to hand-eye coordination? Certainly not The Room, or Slenderman, nor Plague Incorporations, nor Monopoly, nor Tiny Tower, Plants vs. Zombies, Pokemon, and 2048. In truth, games that offer hand-eye coordination are only in the area of ""run"" games, reaction games, sports simulation games, and certain MMORPG and action games. That does not strike me, as representative of the whole video games population. Furthermore, the ""benefits"" of video games on kids/teens are understood to have some appliance in life - however, while the brain reaction speed might be enhanced, the 'hand' part of hand-eye coordination is less benefited so. This because the muscle memory of each part of the body has to be individually trained, and with the certain exception of real-life physical simulation such as Wii, most video games exercise the reaction speed and accuracy of the right-hand index finger, which does not strike me as particularly helpful when dribbling basketball or juggling. My opponent has also said : ""Technology is growing and being a fan of video games lead to wanting to be in that industry and that helps them keep on track with technology."" However this is untrue in two ways. First, being a fan of video games does not necessarily lead to one wanting to be in the ""technology industry"". If that were to be true, every gamer on the planet would become a programmer, designer, or some other type of job/interest that correspond with technology and its industry. I myself am a gamer (sue me for the hypocrisy involved in being one while simultaneously defending the con side of this debate :P) and I don't possess any interest in doing so. Secondly, video games are only a small portion of technology, and being interested in them certainly does not help one very much (a small portion, but no more) in ""keeping on track"" with the developing technology, which has anything from self-driven cars to 3d printing while computer games include humanized limbless birds launching themselves at their equally limbless nemesis pigs in order to achieve vengeance via suicide bomber-esque missions. Now, having established that video games as a whole doesn't serve much considerable benefits, and that the ones that do are only a small portion of the overall population, I shall go through some of the harms video games deal on kids/teens. The most commonly heard reasons are addiction and subsequently eye damage and time waste. Indeed, as opposed to the few examples my opponent gave that benefit the player, there exists in opposition many games which give the players nothing but take a vast amount of time away from them. This goes from simple casual games to MMORPGs. As an example, my opponent said that while fans watch youtube videos, they mostly play Minecraft itself so to gain beneficial effects from it. I have a brother who plays Minecraft valiantly, and dabbles in all aspects of it from adventuring to redstone programming, yet he still spends more than double the time he uses on Minecraft to watch videos of others playing - other than addiction, playing video games had changed other aspects of his life, side effects that counteract the good the games might've brought. This shows that even the most beneficial games can be harmful in that regard. This is normally already harmful, but the age group specified here are kids/teens, and the ones who have the luxury of playing video games most like goes to school as well - and the issue of addiction hampers normal school work even more. Lastly, they make the players - especially teens - become detached from reality. As I said earlier, MMORPGs do have creative benefits, but they are such huge, interactive worlds that players may choose to participate in that world more than they do the real one. It is not uncommonly heard for a person to be still reliant on parents going into, and even after college, gaming instead of making something for their lives. There exists a certain age where some gaming time would be okay, but at this crucial jumpstart age kids/teens can't afford the luxury. Thank you."	CON	675
675	Sc63486e9-A9b59dc78	Do video games really cause bad behaviour to children	"My opponent has conceded in saying that ""games can lead to bad behavior"". Regarding the topic of the debate, the debate topic is listed as a question: ""Do video games really cause bad behavior to children?"". As my opponent took the Con side, he should be arguing that video games do not cause bad behavior in children. He has previously, in Round 1, said that ""video games can't really put bad behavior into the lives of the kids of today"". Therefore, based on what was established in Round 1, this debate is about whether or not video games cause bad behavior in children, and not what the best course of action should be. Therefore, since my opponent has conceded, I urge you to vote Pro. (My opponent even said at the end of his last statement to vote for me, but I'm assuming that was a mistake)."	PRO	676
676	Sfa0d150d-A780ac6e8	Video Games are more successful than Movies.	"I believe that Video games, of the sixth(ps2, xbox) and seventh(xbox 360, wii, ps3) generations have long overtaken the success of films. My opening statement/argument will cut to the chase. In 2004 the blockbuster video game Halo 2 released and set the record..."" and earned up to US$125 million in its first 24 hours on store shelves, thus out-grossing the film Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest as the highest grossing release in entertainment history.""(*1)Then in 2007 Halo 3 released...""First-day sales of Halo 3 reached $170 million in the U.S., setting a record for highest gross of an entertainment product within 24 hours of its release. The performance beat the previous record setter—Halo 2—which earned $125 million within 24 hours after its launch""(*2)Then in 2009 Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 released and...""The total revenue from first day sales in the U.S. and the UK was $310 million, making Modern Warfare 2 the biggest entertainment launch in history, surpassing in revenue its predecessor, Grand Theft Auto IV, as well as items from other media types""(*3) The above three examples are a good indication that video games have well overwhelmed the success of movies such as Titanic and Avatar. Sadly last time i posted this, Con decided to leave a comment and not actually debate the issue, so I decided to renew my argument. Standard structure: R1: Opening statements & Arguments R2: Rebuttals R3: Closing arguments. (nothing new) Con will argue that video games are not more successful than movies. Sources: (*1):http://en.wikipedia.org... (*2):http://en.wikipedia.org... (*3):http://en.wikipedia.org..."	PRO	677
677	S2fba671-A2b98a6f4	Do playing violent video games affect your mental health	"Violent video games do show gore, murder, drugs, alcohol, racial slurs, nudity and foul language. But the most this can do is desensitize you to the prevalence of these things in the real world. If someone knows something is wrong, a video game won't change that. That is, of course, unless that certain someone has a severe mental disorder. I find it interesting that you mentioned the Columbine High School shooting. I looked deeper into the incident's Wikipedia page to find a section called ""psychopathy and depression"". I think it's very important to mention that Harris was a clinical psychopath and Klebold was depressive and often wrote about suicide in his diary, which supports my claim that violent video games only truly affect those with severe mental illnesses. I found an article that shows a long term study that examined violent media, and whether or not video games and movies are to blame for violence in society. This excerpt here shows the bit about when they studied video games: ""A second study into video game violence used data from the Entertainment Software Ratings Board (ESRB) to estimate the violent content of popular games from 1996 to 2011. This was then compared with data on youth violence during the same years, with the study finding a correlation between falling youth violence and the popularity of violent games."" But you also mentioned raging, and I'll be honest, I get angry at video games. But I've never broken a controller or harmed myself beyond hitting my desk with my fist. It's never been anything serious. It's not a thing that only applies to violent video games either, I could be playing a Mario game and I'll get mad. Sources: http://www.independent.co.uk... https://en.wikipedia.org... I'm also a beginning debater, welcome to the site. Good luck, and thanks for setting this up!"	CON	678
678	S586cd9b6-A84793d86	Video games are making children more violent in nature.	Thank you for accepting my debate. When you talk about the purchasing of video games and having age restrictions on them, I must say I agree. Many stores have made it so that ID must be shown at the till when games are rated 12 and over making children below the age unable to buy the game. Especially with Modern Warfare and Grand Theft Auto being rated at 18, clearly meaning that the game is intended for an adult audience. However when it comes to Christmas and Birthdays these games are actually wished for by the child and are purchased widely around the world during these peak times of the year. A parent has the ability to buy these games for their child and so the fact that the age restrictions are there year round becomes invalid. Children are still able to obtain the games and play them; it may be at the help of their own family and parents, but the fact that younger children (as young as 11) are still online playing these games with other people. From playing games at such a young age these children are in fact exposing themselves to violence, gore and explicit language -as these games have a tendency to swear during the cinematic and narrations. The fact of the matter is that these children are still getting given these games as a gift counting the age restrictions are useless.	PRO	679
679	S2442d956-A8777dd38	Video games are detrimental to the modern day society.	"""I could care less about what you say and all that bs you write and I will only present my argument based on my own beliefs and nothing else."" You claim to care less but yet you still actively still in this debate. Furthermore, since you apparently will base your argument solely based upon your own beliefs and nothing else, I am entertaining the thought of whether or not you realized that the world is not based upon one man's view of the world, which is probably why your argument proves to be biased, as shall demonstrate clearly as best as I can in the time and space allotted to the voters Pro. I ""there is a difference between fun and getting addicted… gambling or getting addicted to drugs."" I totally agree with what you are saying. There are kids and adults out in the world, especially in well-developed countries such as the US, China, and Japan, that will spend all their time glued to the screen, disregarding everything. However, the portion of people that are that committed to gaming compared to the rest of the world is extremely small, if not insignificant. After all, how many people do you know that fit your description to the letter? Since it is ""based on"" your own beliefs. I will discuss this point further if my opponent chose to pursue this angle. II ""You can lead the horse … less than 5% of the population plays."" Pertaining to the first sentence with an adage, you could always insert a pipe down its throat while the horse it sedated. That way, the involuntary peristalsis of the esophagus will move the water down to the stomach... jk. Anyway, I completely agree with your second sentence. The brain of a child continues to grow until they reach adulthood and young children can only understand so much. Again since you are relating your ""personal experience,"" you would no doubt be oblivious to the number of educational games out in the real world. Finally, your statistics are not clear. I know from research that the of people who play violent video games far outnumber those who use it for education, however, please take into consideration that large percentage of the population do not own gaming systems either because they are too poor to own one, or think they are useless. Again, I will discuss this point further if my opponent chose to pursue this angle. III ""So addicted people make excuses such as, ""O, this game is so educational because I learn history in it"". Ok, let's take call of duty 3 as an example. There is a historical background in it which is WWII. However, that's the only thing you know about it. Do you learn about kamikazes suicide to destroy ships? Do you learn about the secret messages and how they communicate?"" Okay, since I am not a fan of such games for my own reasons, I cannot answer your questions. But I don't get the point you're trying to get across. Please reiterate. IV ""I doubt you negotiate contracts in that video game and the only way you can do so? What, just offer money and players?"" Please don't answer if you do not have the game and have not done any research on it. V ""Actually, when you watch a football game, you learn how the game works and different techniques that each team uses. Also, many adults usually call up their friends to watch the Super bowl together. Do you think spending time with friends and actually having a taste of real life is worse than playing a football game by yourself and staring at the screen?"" True, but what is the point of such knowledge to a couch potato and his friends if they don't play football them self? Why certainly, here I am ma an educated assumption, when one gets a new game, they would invite their friends over, except for people who doesn't have any because they annoy other people. Sitting and starring at a TV screen, even with friends, is by no means a conversation starter. For huge fans of the Super bowl, they would tare at the screen all the way through. With a Super bowl video game, you are more relaxed and people tend to joke around more often. Of course, that is my opinion for the matter. I don't think you will agree with me, but at lea try to see my point. VI ""You actually think that parents nowadays can 100% control what their children see and what they pick up? ... Pick up these kinds of things is even further exposed to this in high school."" I absolutely agree your statement. At this age and time, with more and more people diving into the world of electronics, we cannot know every single minute where our children are or what they are learning. On the topic of porn and other illegal things, it is obvious that you do not know as much about the outside world as you should. VII ""I truly disagree with this statement… But that means there is the slightest of a CHANCE that they WILL do it right?"" You're right. There is a SLIGHT CHANCE they WILL commit violent crimes, and maybe video games are to blame. I saw the website you mentioned and I see that it is an ADULT game. If young people choose to play it, they are at the discretion of the law. After all, it seems that you think that teens can do whatever they want so long as they don't get caught. Since teens will play it anyway, it is their fault for any actions that happen after. VIII ""now you will argue that it's for 18+ kids right? Let's see how many people below 18 play M rated games. A LOT?"" You have read my mind. From your sentence, I infer that you also play adult rated games? Kids are vulnerable to violence the most because they are still in development, which is why improper exposure can lead to bad deeds to be done. IX ""They help prepare children for today's life and technology? … When you play games, all you do is just click and follow the instructions. How might you learn basic computer language?"" With the implosion of the non-violent area of video gaming, such as Second Life, countless companies have gone digital with meetings and important events. The slightest exposure to what it's like to function in a graphical environment will help in such situations. I am not saying that all kids will follow orders and all parents will enforce them, but kids usually know the implication of the games he plays. How many chess games have you played with your friends? Certainly less than when playing a team oriented game where partners must constantly send messages in order to accomplish the goal. You just answered your own question. Games teach kids to follow instructions closely, and as a result, improve their concentration levels. Finally, apparently, you don't understand how video games operate. Clicking are mainly for computer flash games and whatnots. There are different languages for different programs for the computer. I am assuming you are referring to the programming languages. Obviously you cannot expect a kid to understand how to write and execute programs. Kids learn functions such as how to alter the sound effects, adjust graphics, and starting and terminating programs. X ""Before computers were invented… The parent will never have total control over what their kid does."" Is this a joke? Are you saying people who have video games die because of them? If you look so favorable upon the past times, why don't you stop playing video games and start making dolls and friends to play with them? Are you saying people after the computers were invented lack the creativity of older generations? I agree that almost all companies are out for the money and does not care about the life's they supposedly ruin like the cigarette companies. Again, I agree that kids are becoming more and more disobedient, but that is the cause of the buying of video games, not the effects of it. Unfortunately, I do not have enough space remaining for the rest of my argument. However, I see that Pro might not have finished his argument. I will post my remaining argument in the next round"	CON	680
680	Sff9d8103-A65a35816	Video games make a positive impact on today's society	In this debate I will be arguing that video games mark a positive impact on today's society. Round one is for acceptance. Good luck!	PRO	681
681	S61e968f7-A359f5314	video games help hand eye coordination	video games actually help with hand eye coordination. it helps kids learn how to react faster and moves to the appropriated place, and preform the correct action.	PRO	682
682	Sf2f51256-A21694e5e	Video games cause more harm than good	Video games are not a “good” way to earn money. They are a way to earn money the same as selling drugs is a way to earn money, or becoming a stripper is a way to earn money. Competitions have high entry fees and are oversaturated with savants. The average game player would probably make more money starting a garage band than playing video games. Unless you mean making money for the game makers, and the advertisers. There seems to be a market for people who want to sit on the couch and do nothing for 30-40 hours a week. Game makers are giving visual content to stories that would otherwise be non-existent. The problem is that many of those stories should have stayed that way. Sitting on your couch keeps you from doing other stuff like taking out the trash, paying attention to your actual surroundings, and getting good sleep. You can’t be attentive all the time, but it’s better to be attentive during the time you can be. Video games are great way to play with a computer and call it your friend. MMO’s restrict non-verbal communication which truly the core of all communication whether you believe it’s 93% of all communication or some other number. Gaming also restricts interactive physical contact. Sure if you are in the same room as second player, you can trade jabs and eat popcorn together, but when it comes to online you might as well be playing with NPC’s. You sit alone and talk to your computer telling it to pick up certain items, or perform certain tasks. The only difference between an NPC and a player controlled by another human being is variable response. Your actions and their actions are both limited by the game which acts as interference between both people. One person interacts with the game, the game interacts with the other player, the other player interacts back. Fighting genre games can prove that many players have no clue what the player next to them is doing, the buttons they press are in response to the characters on the screen not the thumb and finger movements of the player. Many players consider movement off the screen as a distraction and refuse to take their eyes away from the screen for even one moment. A girl could be standing there naked for all they know, they will not turn away and are completely shut off from their environment. What good are reflexes if they only occur in your thumbs? Reflexes come from doing task repetitively and continuously responding the same way to certain stimuli. Pavlov’s Dog is an example of this. Master rings a bell, it’s time to eat. Zombie pops out at you x,x,x,x,x, rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr. You’re physical reflexes are diminishing as you spend more and more time practicing being immobile. Better at multi-tasking? There’s a cliché that calls some people a “Jack of all trades…A master of none.” Too much “multi-tasking” cause cognitive difficulties when it comes to focusing on a single event. Many people call that ADD, ADHD, and Hyper-Activity. In real life, skills build upon skills and trust comes from experience. I’m just not going to trust a guy who is always talking about how he knows about everything. Being good at more than one thing is great. Claiming to be good at everything is questionable. That time spent multi-tasking could have been spent making you a guru. I hope by help you with stress and the ability to focus on a certain thing. You mean epileptic seizures. Video games also cause epileptic seizures, so we’ll see if that is considered a good. There is a great variety of video games but they all have one thing in common. They are just dying to tell you how well you are at performing the tasks you are required to do. Here’s an example of that praise in truth. http://youtu.be...; As I have never played portal 2, I decided it would be best for me to research it on youtube and I found the said link to be a true gem in proving addiction to the praise that happens unnaturally in video games. The walk through makes it look easy, but it seems to come with a lot of frustration. I can imagine a player Back tracking, pushing buttons that don’t do anything, performing certain tasks in confusing unknown sequences all for a prerecorded message of adulation. And the points don’t go anywhere. They just stay on the disk. The accomplishments are not tangible, and they vary from game to game. I don’t want to repeat myself too much, but this sense of accomplishment is the reason why Angry Birds is such a widespread game. Each level starts with birds grumbling which induces stress. To relieve that stress, you must destroy all of the pigs. The music is very encouraging, but skips beats. The music plays tricks on the mind that cause panic and poor performance in the game. If you don’t destroy the pigs, they laugh at you and you try agian to overcome the percieved ridicule. If you do destroy the pigs a very warming praise comes from the birds. You are presented with your star achievements and then you are returned to a new level with the sound of stressed out birds. Sports video games are great, but imperial sports are better. Video games have lag, the lag of today’s game is less than the lag of years gone by but it’s still there. Lag causes movements in interactive video games to be repeated over and over. You mustn’t repeat movement over and over for others to notice them in real life as you do for the machine. In outdoor sports there are many factors which are not present in video games, First and foremost is running. Using your body to press against gravity and move yourself great distances far out ways the benefit of running in place. Many times the movements in interactive video games are not the same as they are in real life. In Wii bowling for example, the balance and weight of a 12 pound ball cannot be matched. The movements with the controller in your hand are much different than they are with a real ball and Wii has a lot of forgiveness. And it probably should, the player isn’t fighting gravity, or friction, or variations in lane composition which all add to the experience of doing tasks in real life.	PRO	683
683	Sa41abadd-Ac4ab93be	should violent video games be sold in stores	actually they do make it age certain but we teenagers found a way go around that we use are parents i play violent video games and i don't go around shooting people	PRO	684
684	S7f95546c-Ae5d07526	Video games are not a significant cause of violence in children	"To conclude my argument for the debate, we have two arguments being presented. The first by my opponent, who claims there are other things than video games causing violence; and myself that state that video games do technically cause violence. My opponent did not define the topic of the word ""violence"", making it not mean only one thing but multiple, while I used the definition of violence as an emotion. Violence does occur whenever a person plays a video game for about 40 minutes, even though they may just get angry and not do any criminal action. As well as earlier within the debate, my opponent even admitted on most of my points; meaning that he ""dropped"" the debate. With the given statement, on the fourth round, being: ""Yes I have agreed with you on many things. In fact most of your argument is completely true and I know this from experience"". So voters, who do you think deserves the win? My opponent, who dropped the debate within the middle, or I, who pushed on and added more arguments. Thank you for this debate my fellow opponent!"	CON	685
685	Sb1fed0e9-Adfbf5acb	Ban should be imposed on violent video games.	"In the year of 2007; a school was attacked in Mexico. Many students and teachers were severely injured and some, even dead. The attacker was a normal child. Had a very ""normal"" childhood and teen life. ""He was that sort of child who would bring home great grades"" stated his mother, ""however, he was very much into computer graphics and street racing."" ""I knew ___________ since we were in 8th grade, whenever a new 'Halo' game, 'NFS' game or 'COD' game came out, we'd camp outside of Gamestop so we could get our hands first on them. He always used to beat me"" said his high school best friend, ""I don't know what got into you, but you're not the same"" he stated. This child was brainwashed by the video games he played. To adolescents, virtual experiences feel very realistic; not only because of the amazing graphics that are designed today, but because they are taking on a major role in the murder or assassination of someone innocent. When kids play a game, they are one of the main characters inside the adventure. The entire experience becomes a lot more meaningful and deadly in their brains, which are forming new connections every day. Children should not be allowed to play violent video games. Either, there should be an ID check or the games should be simply banned."	PRO	686
686	Sc80f9596-Ac1065264	should children play mature rated video games	this is just a opening round do u accept and what is your opinion on the matter my postion is that kids should play video games the reasons why are going to be in the next round	PRO	687
687	S5e625e1b-A5f2ce5e0	Video Games Lack a Feel of 'Real Accomplishment	It does look like a spiffing nightclub. Hm, I think you're onto something for the social aspect of video games and accomplishment. What is considered a accomplishment can be defined by a group of people. Doesn't 'have to of course, People being able to accomplish goals that they personally consider important regardless of society. And then you have the rub for it is just a game, That doesn't 'need to give you purpose in life. Probably outside the norm if it does. Eh, Those two do hurt my argument a bit. Eh, At this point I'll cede the debate, Though I'll keep talking. I was thinking earlier on how some people dislike some mechanics in video games such as WoW. Where you complete a quest for example and see nothing change. Even after you slay ten bandits or something the village is still being bothered by them. Also the lack of choice in the game. In some parts of games it seems more like a movie than a RPG. Hm, I recall being more contradictory in the round three argument I 'remember posting yesterday. Ah well, Some debates are emotions of the moment.	PRO	688
688	S631d457a-Ad814ea5f	Modern video games are a superior storytelling medium to books, cinema, and the spoken word.	"First, I would like to thank Con for replying so quickly. 1. Con asserts as his primary argument that in ""[m]any video games, if not most, the game-play is made more important then that of story telling."" This is irrelevant. Even if it is conceded that ""game play"" is made more important than storytelling, this does not reveal anything about the quality of the storytelling. Worse for Con, game play is how video games tell their narratives. The game play is so critically important because it is the means by which the narrative is related. Con""s statement is essentially the same as saying that books make poor narrative mediums because reading is more important than story telling. 2. Con attempts to assert that many video games do not have a plot. Con provides no source for this claim. I would request that Con provide some evidence for this and counter with the assertion that the overwhelming majority of video games have a plot. In modern games, this plot is more important than ever. See http://www.overthinkingit.com.... Also, I note that ""simple plot"" is not the same as ""no plot"" and that even a simple narrative is a narrative. 3. As I understand it, Con""s response to my argument that video game interactivity increases learning is that because people play video games for ""fun"", they are not as focused on the plot as in a movie or book. Initially, I would cite Con back to the above website which establishes that for modern games much of the enjoyment comes from plot. Second, I would point out that under the debate definitions, one of the goals of a narrative medium is to produce engagement. Con admits that video game users are ""mesmerized"" by game play. Again, I point out that game play is the method that video games use to tell their narrative. It is therefore good that users are ""mesmerized"" by it. Effectively, Con admits that users play video games because those games are highly engaging. I fail to see how this is a refutation of my argument given that such engagement is an agreed goal of a narrative medium. 4. Con concedes that video games are the only narrative medium that uses all modes of human learning. I reassert that research indicates this makes them more effective at the last two defined goals of a narrative medium. I cite to my evidence in the prior round. 5. Con argues that the story telling of movies and books is more ""high tech"" because it uses things such as foreshadowing. Con offers no evidence for this assertion and I would ask him to do so. I also point out that modern games employ literary devices regularly. See http://tvtropes.org... 6. I apologize to Con but I do not understand his argument against why video games are more effective at getting users to retain moral lessons. I would ask that Con restate this argument. 7. Con seems to misunderstand my argument regarding video game scope. The issue is not that games are ""first person"". The issue is that modern video games create worlds far more massive and detailed than books, movies, or speech can match. Then, video games allow users to experience this world as deeply as they desire. This increases engagement and narrative understanding by allowing the user to get as much narrative detail as they desire without becoming bored. 8. Con asserts that movies and books are better at expressing emotion and that this creates a deeper understanding of character motivation. First, I deny Con""s assertion that movies and books express emotion more effectively. Con offers no evidence for this assertion. In contrast, I cite the following study that shows how modern games are using characters as narrative devices that create both emotional responses and enhance the narrative experience. See http://www.eludamos.org.... Furthermore, I would respond to Con""s argument by pointing out that video game users usually take on the role of protagonist. The decisions they make in the game are motivated by their own emotions. At least for the protagonist, users have a far greater understanding of character motivation than any other medium can provide. For support, I cite and quote the following study. ""In general, players tended to make ""moral"" decisions and to treat game characters as though they were actual people. . . . These findings indicate how real the virtual world can become when one suspends disbelief and immerses oneself in the scenario."" See http://www.liebertpub.com... 9. My 3rd assertion was that video games more effectively create fantasy worlds because their electronic engines allow them to quickly and easily define the world. Con, citing to no evidence, simply says that he disagrees. In a video game, if a user wants to know if something can be done, he attempts that action and will thus know the parameters of the fictional world. In all other mediums, the rules and definitions of the fantasy realm must be explained through clumsy exposition or, at best, demonstration. Thus, video games create more engaging fantasy worlds (per my evidence cited in the prior round) and, since engagement is one of the defined goals of a narrative medium, video games are better narrative mediums. Furthermore, Con asserts that books and movies are more ""detailed"" than video games. This claim is demonstrably false. An examination of my prior cited evidence shows that many video games recreate worlds hundreds of square miles in size, down to the tiniest details. A book, movie, or oral narrative attempting to describe an area of equal size in similar detail would be almost unimaginably unwieldy. 10. In his paragraph beginning ""In his 4th assertion he goes"""", Con misstates my 4th assertion. I argue that because video games can vary responses to user input, they can most effectively take advantage of operant conditioning and thereby increase both engagement and lesson retention. I would ask Con""s forgiveness, but I do not see how Con has responded to this argument. 11. I reject Con""s assertion that having ""additional options"" doesn""t improve the narrative structure. By having different options through that story which can be explored, the user is granted a level of narrative understanding far greater than if forced to simply experience things on a set path. Common sense indicates that when a user can explore multiple options for each choice in a narrative, they come away with a greater understanding of the structure as a whole. 12. Con seems to misunderstand my point about video game addiction. One of the defined purposes of a narrative is to produce engagement. The ultimate form of engagement with something is addiction, the point at which the user becomes so engaged that his physical health become less important than the object to which he is engaged. Since video games are the only one of the four discussed mediums that produce this level of engagement, my argument that they are superior narratives in this regard stands. Con attempts to avoid this argument by asserting that users are addicted to the ""game play"" but not the story. Once again, game play is the method which video games use to tell their stories. Thus, if users are addicted to game play, they are addicted to receiving additional information, possibilities, abilities, and outcomes flowing from the narrative structure as a whole. I reassert my contention that modern commercial video games are the superior storytelling medium. I also assert that my citation to evidence (in contrast to Con""s generally unsupported assertions) discharges my burden of proof. I would like to thank Con for an interesting debate so far. I would also like to inform Con and any other readers that due to real world conflicts, my next argument will not be posted until tomorrow night at the absolute earliest."	PRO	689
689	Sfc941f94-A550c4516	why video games are good for you.	"There was a Facebook Page who posted about a gamer who killed his parents. I saw one comment saying: ""True Gamer, I salute you."" And I was like What the H*ll. Do you even respect your parents?"" I know it might or might not be a joke. Either way, you can see the streak of hatred of the commenter to his parents. And he is obviously a gamer. (Only a gamer would say that). One reason why it was obvious was the way he responds to people in the comments. The people were contradicting him. And he was like ""Welcome to the internet b*tch."" And I'm like ""H*ll no this isn't the internet, you are making your own world, f*g."" Now explain how gaming is good here. One more story: About the Psycho Dad destroying his son's video games. Well, I wouldn't believe that was true. It was pretty much for a show. I mean, too Overacting. BUT, Another commenter said: ""Kick his dad's *ss though he paid for those video games blah blah blah."" It's too nonsensical to read. But same goes my reaction. I would be happy if you could explain this. Addiction is one of the most severe con of being a gamer. But as I said it, it won't imply to everyone. It's really depending on people if they want it to be their distraction or plain entertainment. Let me give you a little example. A man had his PS4 technically broken, then he raged broke everythings in their house. OR A gamer who had his console hidden and has raised his voice against his mom and hasn't eaten for several weeks. Let me say it again. It depends on the brain thinking of the beholder. Let's be neutral."	CON	690
690	Sd672d38d-A3366d0d7	Violent Video games should be ban	The incident you cited is one incident out of the hundreds of millions of people who play video games. If we used that logic, we could come up causal relationships for everything and anything. For example, the day Charles Manson killed people he ate eggs for breakfast. Well, let us ban eggs because eggs obviously lead to mass murder. Come on. Who are we kidding? I wonder if in the example you cited, the little boy watched violent TV shows? I am sure he did. In all reality, the kids did not know the difference between death seen on a TV and real death. In the situation you identified, the real issues are: A) how did an eight year old get a gun and B) how come no one was supervising him. Really, it gets down to poor parenting. I could agree there should be age limits for certain games, but an outright ban is ridiculous. Like I said in my very first post, people kill others for very specific reasons and often, both parties are at fault. I have seen real violence. Very few instances are just random attacks.	CON	691
691	Sd46bff47-Ad4e5521a	Video Games Cannot Be Blamed For 'Corrupting' Children.	No, my argument is that the video game industry cannot be blamed for children playing games that are not meant for them. At no point have I even tried to say games don't cause violence. I am stating that games get too much stick for things that are the fault of the people that play them even though they aren't supposed to. I am fully aware that, if viewed by the wrong audience, games cause harm, and I have said nothing against that. My point is that people are blaming the industry as a whole, when the fault lies with the people that ignore guidelines that are there for the sole purpose of making sure things like this do not happen. Also this is my first debate, throw me a bone here.	PRO	692
692	S43ababd3-A28087053	Should kids play MA video games	Ah, yes. The age-old philosophical question of whether or not kids should be able twist video game characters' heads right off of their bodies and watch the pixelated blood go spurting. Or watch them smoke cigarettes, or whatnot. What a deep query you have made, my son. The answer: The actual studies say there is no causal link between violent video games and aggressive behavior: http://psycnet.apa.org... Case closed.	PRO	693
693	S78239cf0-A7c35fb3c	Emulators For Video Games Are Illegal	"I'm back after a long day at school! I was tired the other day because it was near 10 so my brain started to stop thinking straight for me. But now that I am thinking straight again, let us continue this debate. I did understand most of your arguments, but I wasn't thinking straight since my brain was shutting down on me as a reminder that I should stop using the computer and go to sleep. And if you still think I do not understand your arguments, then I think I need to end my life. So maybe you did answer those questions that I assumed that you never answered, but there are still some other questions that you continue to ignore or just being extremely vague to. Yes, you answered why those emulator developers are getting away with the law scot-free, yet you still fail to provide a specific and complex answer for my other question. What about those that show videos of using or teaching people to download and use emulators? Why aren't the moderators or administrators of such video sharing sites such as YouTube not doing anything to intervene and stop them for copyright infringement? I have seen from a second-hand perspective that many gamers that upload walkthrough videos of video games developed and/or published by Sega of Europe get their videos taken down, even though that is clearly fair use, specifically Cobanermani 456's walkthrough videos of Mario & Sonic: Sochi 2014 for the Nintendo Wii U being taken down. So if video game companies are strict with that, why not the videos with emulator demonstrations and tutorials? Heck, Nintendo even forces YouTube to take down any videos with their music in them, regardless if it is considered copyright infringement or not unless with video game reviews, of course. If it really is extremely difficult as opponent has proven to catch such criminals, then as the example provided above, why do companies like Sega and Nintendo are daring enough to take down videos that are considered fair use under U.S. and international law (i.e., walkthrough videos, animations, how-to videos, etc) yet don't even attempt to take down videos of emulators of their games. Websites that allows content to be shared among users have moderators and administrators that will constantly monitor the activities of users and will take action if deemed necessary. It's funny but sad how these people are able to penalize users for spamming, trolling, and harassment, but not things like piracy and emulators. I have joined many gaming forum sites over the past few months (February 2014 to be approximate) such as IGN, GameSpot, Escapist, GiantBomb, just to name a few, and I have left each and every site, mostly because of being banned for reasons less serious or severe as emulators, piracy, and copyright violations. (Other forums was because I was bored of them, but that is not the point I am trying to prove). So if these mods are willing to punish me and others for minor ""crimes"" like these, why not the bigger ""crimes"" which aren't as common compared to examples said above. Okay, I admit that you have successfully explained to me what video game developers are doing as an alternative, but that still doesn't accept the fact that it is possible to track down and punish all violators that emulate said material. As stated above, if I can get permanently banned for being a dick to other people online, then those that show how to emulate or demonstrate such illegal activity can too. I understand that one cannot punish a person that brags or admits to pirating or emulating without evidence, as with other crimes (except for terrorism and threats), but why are developers too lazy to punish them but not others with less severe crimes? For more information about what the hell I am even talking about, go on YouTube, search up ""ReviewTechUSA"", and watch his video which says ""Dear Sega, SUE DSPGaming!"" and then you will understand. (I know that I said I will never use sources in my argument, but since you want proof so bad, I will just give you some to you just for this situation. He actually makes such good arguments though, so do watch!) There are many strategies that they can use to punish them, but if they don't plan them out strategically (pun intended), then I guess they are just prolonging the inevitable (such strategies will not be discussed as they can be used against me). And about brand loyalty. There are so many companies out there that don't give two craps about their consumers as long as they gotten their money. They don't care if you are happy or not, as long as you get brought to ""justice"", as long as their property is protected, and as long as they were loyal to you right before you bought their items and left the store. Such companies do not care about their fanbase and are terrible with their customer service. And such companies include Sega, Microsoft, and Sony, and believe me, there are many PlayStation and Xbox owners that are extremely mad at them yet they don't care one bit since they know Nintendo will never convince them to join them and leave Sony and Microsoft. Sega was like that when they were still around after the Genesis and during the CD/32-X, Saturn, and Dream-Cast era, but now they are better, but still, that's what killed them to become the losers they are today. (I know that I am contradicting myself, but I am trying to prove to you that such companies do exist that don't care about brand loyalty after consumers have bought their products that they wanted to sell to them.) As with the other countries argument, I never assumed the United States; I actually meant North America as I am Canadian (and yes, ISIS did retaliate due to Harper's stupidity; no, you're American, so you have no right to argue about that) and thus assumed this was both countries. Since I am in Canada, the copyright act is similar to the American one, except that it is only 50 years instead of 75, and I think that it can be 50 years after the item's publication and not 50 years after the copyright holder's death, so sucks to be in America (no offense though). And no, it's not fair to limit it to the United-States; North America certainly, but not limited to America as I am Canadian and I'm not going to cross the south border just to emulate some video games. Also, remember that this site it www.debate.org, not www.debate.com, so although it is very American-like, it is technically North American (which is international by the way). And I'm not even going to discuss about international treaties, maybe we can debate about that another time of why those that sign such treaties still break them (China and Russia on human freedoms and rights maybe)? So you contradicted yourself yet again. Funny how almost all of my opponents contradict their statements yet always seem to ignore it and/or assume that I will never know about them. You say that my past rebuttal had no substance now you say that many of my points have successfully defeated yours; and I will not use sources!"	CON	694
694	Sa41abafc-A53a9e2a	should violent video games be sold in stores	it depends on the type of person that kid is and what they thinks when its all in their head they blame it on violent video games its the frame of their mind that they have and the way they use and how their imagination is	PRO	695
695	S631d457a-A81103fa6	Modern video games are a superior storytelling medium to books, cinema, and the spoken word.	First, I thank Con for an engaging debate (despite his forfeiture in the last round). As this is a first experience on the site for both of us, I hope he has found it as pleasurable as I have. Per the rules of the debate, I offer no new arguments or evidence in this round and instead restate the primary arguments I have advanced. First, I note that, to discharge my burden of proof, I have cited 18 separate sources. Con has refuted none of these sources. Indeed, he has ignored them. Second, without re-citing to the above mentioned authorities, I summarize my arguments, briefly, as follows. 1. Video games more effectively employ the three established modes of learning and are thus more engaging, create longer retention of information and moral lessons, and convey a narrative structure. Thus, under the definitions of this debate, video games are superior narrative mediums. 2. The interactive nature of video games allow them to achieve a scope and level of detail that cannot be matched by the other mediums without the other mediums becoming unwieldy and ineffective. This increased scope and level of detail directly and logically contribute to the ability of video games to more effectively accomplish the goals of a narrative medium as defined in this debate. 3. Video games more effectively accomplish the tasks that are generally required to create an engaging and effective narrative. This is because their computer driven engines can simulate reality while also allowing interactivity. No other medium can accomplish this. 4.The interactivity of video games allows them to utilize behavioral conditioning to create engagement and teach morals. Books, movies, and the spoken word do not have this ability. I also assert the following as proof that the other mediums are less effective than video games. Sources supporting these assertions are available in Round 4. 1. Video games are more effective than books as narrative mediums because playing video games requires more involvement and creative input. 2. Modern video games are more engaging than movies, books, and spoken narratives. Since engagement is a central goal of a narrative medium as defined for this debate, modern video games are the superior narrative medium. 3. Spoken narratives fail most noticeably at conveying a narrative structure. Because spoken narratives have no permanent form, they are subject to change through each repetition. Thus, they have no consistent narrative structure and change too often to effectively be relied upon to accomplish any of the primary goals of a narrative medium over the long-term. In contrast, video games have an almost unchanging narrative structure. For the above briefly summarized reasons and the more detailed reasons in the prior Rounds, I request that voters side with me. Additionally, and more importantly, if any experiences debaters on this site have followed this, my first debate, in detail, PLEASE message me with any information I might need to know to more accurately follow the accepted rules and procedures of this site. Thank you to Con for this debate, to the voters for reading the arguments, and to Debate.org for providing the means for us to explore this issue. Best of luck to Con as we begin the voting period and I look forward to any future debates. Regardless of who you vote for, PLEASE VOTE. I would hate for my first debate to end in a 0-0 tie. Best wishes and, until next time, good night.	PRO	696
696	Se8780244-Afc4cef1b	schools should allow kids to play video games at break	First lets say about the bullys its bullying its better to stay quiet and play video games then do so ething in fro t of the bullies that reduces the chances of getting picking on since your innocent plus if your good at video games and all your friends like video games too you might win a contest and earn fame so if people play at school too they will get better plus wanting to beat someone is a good thing.	PRO	697
697	Scc6490a7-A6a357f91	Playing video games promote creativity more than reading a book	"To start off: ""Even if I say that video games produce 1,000 times the amount of creativity than a single book, books would still, in total, aspire and ""accumulate"" over 4 times video game's worth."" The debate is ""Playing video games promote creativity more than reading a book"",. Though there are more books, and they may accumulate more creativity, the topic explains how playing a video game can promote more creativity than reading a book. One book. ""When someone reads a story, for example, they create individual images and concepts to represent a character."" Creating a image of a character does not exactly lead to creativity. I can think about a character and what they may look like, but that does not exactly involve my creativity, I am only following what the author is saying, which does not promote my creativity. "" Also, it is much easier to get a book."" This is irrelevant to the debate. The question is not which one is easier to get, but which one can promote creativity more effectively. "" Moreover, numerous readers use their ideas to create fan fiction"" Players and fans also make fan fiction based off of the video game. Using a variety of characters and storyline, they change the storyline, or make predictions for the future of the game. Here is an example: https://www.fanfiction.net... Now for my arguments: In video games, you can restart puzzles and challenges. And every time you can find a new creative way to overcome these challenges. Not only does this promote creativity, but it also promotes problem solving. Also, video games are more entertaining, so a person would be more compelled to playing a video game than a book. So the video game would promote more creativity in the person than a book because he invests more time in the video game. According to this article: http://news.cnet.com... 91% of children play video games. Everything you learn as you grow of is based on what you learn when you were a child. So if more children play video games and gain more creativity as children, more future adults will be creative. So basically, video games would promote creativity more."	PRO	698
698	S4227ac9d-A803b4557	Selling violent video games to minors is okay.	"I thank Shooter for initiating this debate, and accept the challenge. Before getting into the issue, some housekeeping. Violent- Pro mentioned ""bloody, gory, and sometimes offensive"", but I don't think that does justice. To be more descriptive, we need to add a few terms such as, decapitation, dismemberment, disemboweling, burning, bodies exploding into chunks, and blood gushes, splatters, and pools. Even after the character is dead, the player can usually further mutilate the body by shooting, hacking, kicking, beating, etc. Minor- Being under legal age; not yet a legal adult. One who has not reached full legal age (1). Okay- It's difficult to define this word, but generally it means, ""acceptable"". If my opponent has no objection, either party may use the comments section if they need more character space, for their argument. No new arguments in the last round. To clarify burden of proof, the instigator, or pro, assumes the burden of proof to affirm the positive claim, made by the resolution, ""Selling violent video games to minors is okay"". Since Pro opted to argue in the next round, I don't have much of a rebuttal in this round, but I will make a few comments about his opening. Pro mentions the SCOTUS debate over violent video games. A California law banning the sale of violent video games to minors, was up for review, and was found to not meet the ""strict scrutiny"" required to ban a protected form of free speech (2). Luckily though, neither participant in this debate is required to meet that same ""strict scrutiny"", that was required of the California law. What we'll be debating here, per the resolution, are the issues involved in the sale of those games to minors, and whether those sales are, as the resolution states, ""okay"". Argument I disagree with pro's resolution for several reasons. 1. A blanket statement, such as the one made by the resolution, is rarely a good thing in debate because, since no exceptions are specified, it implies that ALL things apply in ALL cases. Therefore pro must defend the notion that it is okay to sell all violent games to ANY minor, without exception. Since pro did specify an age range of 13-18, I will stick to the age range he specified. There are several problems with selling all violent games to any teen, including but not limited to, the following. a) Violence is not all that is being sold. Games containing intense violence don't JUST contain violence. Violence is usually accompanied by nudity, strong sexual content, profanity, drug, alcohol, and tobacco use, and any number of behaviors that might be deemed inappropriate, by the parents, thus the sale of those games to just any teen is not okay. b) All parents know that a child's maturity level frequently does not match his chronological age. This is especially true in the younger teen years, and in kids with problems like ADD, etc. There are also kids who are much more mature, and the parents may feel that it is okay for that child to have the game. Point is that the parent is the only one who is equipped to know what is ""okay"" for their child. 2. Minors, by definition, are not of legal age or are not emancipated, meaning that they are subject to parental authority. That authority is respected, even in the legal field, unless it is deemed harmful by a court. The right of a parent to set guidelines, for their child, must always take precedence over a retailer's right to sell a product containing sex and violence, to a minor. Selling violent video games to minors, without parental consent, circumvents that parental authority, and makes it extremely difficult to enforce those guidelines. a) With the increasing complexity of games, there is often more to the game than just the disk. There is often downloadable content, online content, and cheats, that allow access to more than just what is listed on the cover. The ""coffee"" cheat for Grand Theft Auto, is a good example (3). This statement is taken from the IT Law Wiki, ""Games that include an online component are tagged ""Game Experience May Change During Online Play"" to give notice to users that the online content may not fall into the same rating category as the game due to possible user generated content"" (4). The sale of these games, without parental consent, makes it nearly impossible for a parent to properly evaluate the game, and it's additional content beforehand, and decide whether, or not, it is appropriate. Selling the games to teens in secret, even if parents have told the child no, limits a parent's ability to take responsibility for what the child is exposed to, because by the time the parent finds the game, they've already been playing it. It forces parents to be reactive, rather than proactive, in monitoring their child's behavior. With the authority given to parents, by law, it is not ""okay"", to sell a potentially harmful product to a child, without giving parents the opportunity to fully evaluate the product to determine if it is appropriate. A child has no ""right"" to own a potentially harmful product unless a parent, or legal guardian, gives them that right. Allowing retailers, who stand to gain financially, to sell these products to kids without parental consent should never be deemed ""okay"". 3. The ESRB ratings placed on the boxes of games to advise parents of the contents, are endorsed by the SCOTUS, in it's opinion on the California law. However, without legal backing, the rating system is in no way binding on retailers. These ratings are a voluntary measure, taken by the software industry, who realize that some games are inappropriate for younger age groups. The information contained in these ratings is useless unless the parent is there to see it before the purchase, which is just not realistic when talking about teens. Without some threat of financial penalty or legal consequence, retailers, who are in business to make money, can not be relied on as an intermediary force, that will go against it's own best interest to ensure that minors do not buy inappropriate games. 4. Since video game content is a protected form of free speech, laws do not attempt to prohibit minors from owning, or playing violent video games, they simply prohibit the ""sale"" of that potentially harmful content to minors, without parental consent. This is the most effective way to make sure that the child's best interest is met. Parents who allow their teen to play these games can still allow that by simply buying the game for their child. This reasonable accommodation is allowed by law, and is not interfered with in any way. With a ban on the sale in place, their are reasonable accommodations, that protect the interest of both sides Without a law, however, there is no change for the parents who allow their kids access to that content, but there is no reasonable accommodation for parents who determine the content inappropriate for their children. They simply have to accept that other people have the right to sell potentially harmful material to their children, even though the parents may have told the child that they can't have that game. If the parent says no, the child can still go buy the game behind their back, and simply hide it, playing it only when they're sure they won't get caught. Although there are other arguments that can be made, on the subject, this is enough for now. I hope the reader gives consideration to these issues, and agrees that selling intensely violent video games, and all the other content that comes with it to minors, without parental consent, is not okay. I look forward to pro's argument. 1. http://www.thefreedictionary.com... 2. http://www.supremecourt.gov... 3. http://www.legalzoom.com... 4. http://itlaw.wikia.com... 　"	CON	699
699	S8ae69f16-Ae42b927e	Video games and/or simulations are an efficient form of training and education.	"Rebuttals Where are the resources? ""(1) People learn better through active experience than passive listening; and (2) people learn better through interacting with one another than working alone."" *The traditional ways of teaching does involve passive listening and active experience like any online video games or simulations. Traditional way of teaching and learning is effective already because it is still being use all over the world. Why Traditional Method are Greater *People used traditional methods for long period of time and they are still using the methods today. *Methods are listening to the teachers, working on activities with people, and experiencing the information. *I take Spanish at my school and the teacher helps me very well. I don't believe that you are going to have that type of help or attention given to you online. For example try this website: http://lhh.tutor.com... This website is known to help people with their homework, but every time I try it I waste my precious time and receive a headache. * Traditional methods involve face to face attention, while on the computer simulation or teaching program you don't know who you are talking to. *As a middle school student I know the best and effective way that kids learn which is by keep on practicing. Through working on homework after listening to your teachers tell you what to do. There are 2 ways students learn which are by listening to the information and seeing pictures with words. http://wiki.answers.com... Military uses video games, but they are not truly affective. * The traditional ways are the ways where they fight and shoot guns at targets. * A video game can't prepare a soldier or a fighter pilot for battle because the virtual world isn't as harsh or dangerous as a real war. When the soldier shoots a real gun and the fighter pilot flies a fighter jet than they are prepared to fight in a war. Conclusion Nothing beats the traditional way, because the traditional methods are so good they are still being used today. The traditional methods give you face to face time with the teacher unlike online video simulation. Video game isn't real, so it can never prepare you for something new or different. In traditional way you learn to adapt when you need to. Video games and online simulations are nothing compared to the traditional ways of learning. Traditional methods have been effective for a long time and aren’t going anywhere. We experience traditional methods first hand when we were students and we know how effective they are. Traditional methods are in no doubt the better teaching way than videogames and online simulations."	CON	700
700	S2442d956-Ad9ee311b	Video games are detrimental to the modern day society.	"Since this is the last round, I will be closing loopholes and leaving others open for possible future debates. I really had fun debating with Pro, and in the middle somewhere, I think we switched sides and back again. ""Sorry to tell you, but you just humiliated and made yourself look like a fool. You claim that you play the wii every day, yet you don't know that there is no multiplayer for Cod3 on the wii? You never bothered to research did you?"" I'm sorry, did I say I play Wii everyday? I wonder where I said that. Also, please check your spelling and grammar in future debates. ""There is social skills necessary, yes it is possible to communicate by talking in the headset or whatever, but in my 200 or so games that I have played, the people rarely every talk, and when they do, they talk about going to their friend's house. Not much communication eh?"" Yet you think video games are detrimental to society. People, even in video games, rarely talk to strangers. ""So you call groups of people randomly dispersing and killing the enemies teamwork? ...Congratulations!"" So I as wondering, why are we talking about this based solely on your brief experience with COD? ""That's about as ever as you will get to one of those dumb games -_-"" I do deem this comment worth responding to. ""Dragon Age: Origins is an M-rated game, so have fun telling me that children shouldn't be playing M games."" I thought you were suppose to be one who argues that M rated games are not for kid... Besides, I can't even if i wanted to. This is the last round. ""O, and according to you, apparently seeing FAKE people play FAKE football is so much more amusing than watching REAL people play REAL football, eh?"" Especially when there is no football game on. ""Also, lots of people play the game BECAUSE the see the sexual ads and hope to see those same content in the game. Not detrimental eh?"" I'm sorry, but can you show me statistical data concerning your case? ""If the gaming industry is detrimental to the society and it is they that make the games, you think the games won't be detrimental?"" So, according to your theory, if an automaker is evil, the car that he makes will have an evil influence on the owner? ""Buddy, this ain't math class. Leave your ""smart brain"" (if you had one you wouldn't be talking crap like this in a freaking debate about the effects of video games) for someone that actually cares. Also, where do you think the ""adults"" with a child brain gets the ideas from? Video games and TV."" I will comment on this with an sarcastic remark. Looks like someone is getting frustrated. ""So, in conclusion, I still see that video games can be detrimental to our society especially when people are addicted."" Sigh, we never got to discuss the new issues. ""p.s. I know this is very hard for you with your big ego, but try not to brag that you go to a ""prestigious school"" since Stuy was no"" Since when did I ever have a big ego? Hey, who says I'm bragging? According to you, I just copy and paste, so if the New York Times says that Stuy is prestigious, then I will copy and paste the words. I again thank Pro for his quickness to respond to by posts and putting up some good defenses. As mentioned Pro, and I will elaborate, in an attempt to save space limits, I shorted some of the URLs for the reference websites. Unfortunately, I did not bookmark any of them, and once i find them again I will post it in the comment section. Once again I thank Pro for my first debate on this website. And I now leave it to the voters to decide which side was more convincing. It has been a great pleasure, and my sincerity to the winner. Cheers."	CON	701
701	Sa4146d25-Ac076ea9d	Video Games	The video game has very rich technology that provokes the brain to think. That is where the educational game comes in. Examples portal has a very strategical plot due to its complexity.	CON	702
702	S564e80bc-Acfaf34c0	the government should ban violent video games to kids and adolescent	I accept pro's challenge and argue that the government should not ban violent video games to kids and adolescents. Video games = any of various games played using a microcomputer with a keyboard and often joysticks to manipulate changes or respond to the action or questions on the screen.	CON	703
703	Se406e709-A72d88338	Dave Ramsey should be the focus of a new era of financial video games.	"As ""Should"" is included in the title I expect this will be a largely opinion based debate. Pro states ""This new genre of game would allow children to learn how to effectively manage money at an early age."" as the only argument of the first round. A game of this kind could possible teach children to manage money if produced correctly. The challenge would be to find companies that would support or produce such a video game. I will leave it to the Pro to find examples of entire successful genres based on a real life identity such as Dave Ramsey. My first two arguments counter the idea that is presented in the title:""Dave Ramsey should be the focus of a new era of financial video games."" 1) You can't focus an era of video games on anything. The video game industry is completely based on the demands of the consumers - what sells the best is developed and sold. Nobody controls the video game market. 2) An era of video games cannot be based on one genre and one character. Dave Ramsey as the focus of ONE financial game could be interesting. An entire era, or even just a genre of Dave Ramsey financial video games would be repetitive and not interesting."	CON	704
704	Sccb645e6-A92a05cdf	Video games are ruining our young men	"I have never said video games doesn't have a positive side to it. In fact, it does; such as improved coordination and improving as far as creating things. Of course video games have a positive effect but here we are looking at the negatives, and those negatives are prior to how women are treated. In a poll 80% of females experienced sexism and 35% experienced sexual harassment while playing online with males. A study is found that women are harassed 4 times more than men and that 63% of women had to deal with being called absurd names I cannot state in this debate. Many other insults had to do with the woman's weight or appearance, which is also a form of bullying. And let's not forget about the rape jokes. ""I'll rape you!"" is often chanted towards female players, and it is indeed an awful for of sexual harassment. Now, I know a lot of gamers use rape as in a term of beating someone in a game, but whether they are talking about beating the player or actually doing the crime itself, it's still a vile comment. Studies also show about 35% of women actually QUIT playing video games due to the sexual harassment, and the sexism itself. And about 9% quit playing a certain game forever due to the sexual harassment. Now I know you are going to point it out if I don't put it in this debate, but yes. About 15% of men have experienced sexual harassment while playing video games with others. And sadly, these men are being harassed by other men. Such as being called a faggot, and gay which are the most common insults used against male players. But let's not forget that women are harassed 4 times more than men. And that men harass other men, which is going against their own gender. Now like I said in round 1, not all men are guilty of this. Thankfully, there are male gamers who respect and who treat female gamers in a respectful and kind way. Now I say that this is ruining young men because these harassers are more likely to say these things in real life. Which is not healthy and can cause a problem in that persons life as far as bullying. At the end of the day 40% of females make up the gaming community, would we really want that percentage to go down because some men don't know how to act like respectful human beings? Let's defend out harassed female and male gamers and stand up to the bullies who do the harassing. Sources: http://www.vg247.com..."	PRO	705
705	S7f02efbf-Aba67e877	Playing violent video games make people more violent.	One person acts this way while playing it so the other must act the same way while playing it. Is basically what comes from that. 2. According to this study your saying involved in school shootings and not exactly the shooters themselves. This could be 41 people that were there for it happening. Also here is a thing about that. One thing that few of these people have in common was they were addicted to violent video games. But just because one massacre didn't involve violent video games mean the others didn't as well? The thing about this is that of course not all massacre's and shootings happen over violent video games. We all know that. In fact the number one reason why school shootings happen is becausethe shooter has been being bullied. But if we talk about the shootings and massacres there is a chain of them that the shooter was addicted to violent video games. 3. Ever occurred that these people with mental stability lost themselves in a violent video game and therefore acted out a deep dark fantasy as I pointed out in round one. Saying more than less they shouldn't have been playing these video games to begin with. 4. But some studies as I shown in round one that some teens that played violent video games started acting more aggressively. It might not explain it for everyone but it does explain for the few that due. It would become something that is sub conscious then wouldn't it? Something your doing while not realize it. People have the same emotion to music. Happy song make you happy. Sad song makes you sad. Dancing song might fill your adrenaline fire you up. There are opera that are suppose to make people fall asleep and it does. So nothing could be triggered playing violent video games all of a sudden? 5. But if one whom get's so lost in a violent video game loses between what is real and what is fake and what is right and what is wrong then how do you know their actions afterwards. You don't. You can't predict how far it could be taken. Someone addicted to sports isn't going to become an athlete. Someone addicted to music isn't going to become a musician. Someone addicted to cars isn't going to become a mechanic or something that has to do with cars at least. So someone addicted to violent video games might be triggered to violence. I'll be glad to help after this debate.	PRO	706
706	S1cddf538-A832d448e	Piano is more qualified to be a sport than video games.	"Lately in my other video game debates, my opponents have pointed out that ""button mashing"" is not what it takes to work a video game. They say that it is precise hitting of the buttons at the right time rather than ""button mashing"". So then why doesn't piano, writing, etc. count as a sport. All those have precise times clickings of the button. My challenge is for gamers to point out the difference between writing, piano, etc. ""button mashing"" and video game ""button mashing"". What makes video games more qualified to be a sport than those? Round 1-first point/acceptance Round 2-debate Round 3-debate Round 4-debate Round 5-debate"	PRO	707
707	S9b9e68e4-Ad20fd124	Playing Video Games are greater in benefits than reading Fiction Books.	Ever since the 90's the video game industry has been developing at a rapid pace. From first-person shooters like Halo to strategy games such as Civilization 5, video games have effected the millennial generation in varying fashions. One might wonder if any of these video games provide more than just entertainment. According to several studies... they do. Video Games Train the Brain for Quicker Learning and Decision Making. Reading Fiction Books Do Not. When you play action packed video games with lots of quick time movement, your learning speed increases as the action packed games are usually quick paced. For example, in a game such as Halo, you are required to see multiple activities happening at once, if you fail to see one, it can result in the death of your character. If you are still wondering how your learning speed increases, it is quite simple, fast paced video games require people to think fast and learn quickly from their mistakes. Meaning, you cant just pick up a controller and go into a Halo game thinking you will do well, it takes skill, skills such as quick thinking and learning quickly. It is required in-order to do well. Now if you cant correlate how this can help you out side the gaming world, here is how it will help. Quick decision-making/learning can be used in many ways in the real world, in school it can give you an edge when it comes to learning, on the road you wont take as long in making a decision, and in the workplace being able to prove to your boss that you are a quick thinker can definitely impact your career (depends on the job). Fiction books do not provide a benefit such as this. Video Games Enhance Fine Motor Skills. When you first start playing video games, you probably looked at the controller repeatedly so you could play the game properly, after time you abandoned this habit, for your fine hand motor skills have vastly improved. Fine hand motor skills or motor skills in general allow people make precise actions. An example of this is when you are parking a vehicle, if you go back n forth trying to park, you probably have poor motor skills. If you park in one swoop, you motor skills are probably on the higher end. So in the basics playing video games can increase your motor skills substantially. Fiction books do not provide any motor skill other than turning a page. In general, playing video games can improve the brain in multiple degrees. From hand-eye coordination to problem solving skills, it has numerous benefits that can be applied to real life. While fiction books on the hand only provide entertainment and I guess if you read enough, a better vocabulary/reading speed. It is quite apparent that video games provide a plethora of benefits compared to reading the dusty, old, book (fiction). Sources: http://www.sciencealert.com... https://www.psychologytoday.com... http://www.everydayhealth.com...	PRO	708
708	S8ae69f16-A4fa1f023	Video games and/or simulations are an efficient form of training and education.	"There are two types of academic games: simulation games and non-simulation games. Non-simulation games are those in which a player solves problems in a school subject such as spelling or mathematics by making use of principles of that subject or discipline. The other type of academic game is the simulation game in which participants are provided with a simulated environment in which to play. These games are intended to provide students with insight into the process or event from the real world which is being simulated.It is the use of simulation games which holds the most promise as a truly dynamic educational tool. - Business Use of Games - Sivasailam Thiagarajan, president of Workshops by Thaigi, an organization that works with corporate managers and employees to improve their organization's performance, productivity, and profits, writes that ""the instructional techniques of simulation gaming are based on two important premises: (1) People learn better through active experience than passive listening; and (2) people learn better through interacting with one another than working alone. He attributes the rapid increase in the use of interactive, experiential training such as simulation gaming to several factors, including teaming of employees, diversification of the workforce, emphasis on continuous learning, increasing intolerance of employees to passive approaches to learning, and the computer revolution, which makes it ""easier to design and to deliver interactive training."" ""Most trainees,"" he says, ""who have enjoyed interactive instruction are unwilling to return to the traditional data-dump approaches."" It is this increasing use of technology in education, specifically personal computers, that has the greatest potential to increase the use of simulation and gaming in education. - An Adapted Computer Game - In the summer of 1996 Major Curtis A. Carver Jr. who teaches in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at West Point developed a quiz generator adapted from the game Doom. What Carver developed was a game in which his students could generate multiple choice questions as they maneuvered through the game. Carver noted that students who used this ""game"" performed much better on tests than students who were taught without the game. Carter also observed that students spent many hours after class trying to ""beat"" the game and were therefore much more exposed to the material than the other non-game playing students. Computer games and simulations are increasingly being used in all areas of education. Mathematics and physics has particularly benefited from the computer revolution by being able to simulate and show complex equations in graphical form. The languages have become benefactors as well, especially with the ability of students to hear digital words and sounds in other languages from their computers. Simulation and gaming, whether computer based or not, can be a powerful tool when used properly and in the right setting. They help students actually experience a system or problem and not just read or hear about it. Computer simulations are especially able to allow students to create and manipulate systems and problems within certain parameters and without the normal constraints of time and space. You can play or ""learn"" from an educational video game and/or simulation any time that is convenient to you. And besides all that, they are interesting, attract students to learn, and are usually down right fun. Even the military is using simulation video games as the new most efficient form of training and education. I will emphasize on this point in the next round. For all the reasons I have given above and for more reasons which I will state in the following rounds, video games and/or simulations are just as efficient or more efficient than traditional methods, in educating and training people."	PRO	709
709	Sf5624343-A1f446b3a	Fun Argument: Books (Pro) vs Video Games (Con)	So instead of just responding to a portion of my arguments this time, my opponent doesn't respond to ANY of my arguments. This means you extend the argument talking about how video games offer benefits that books don't offer, and that video games also offer educational benefits. What does this mean? Simple. His sole argument at the end of the debate is that books provide better educational benefits compared to video games. Ignoring the fact that he never warrants how this is true, the problem is this: he has an impact saying x. I have impacts saying x and y. We both have x going for us, I'm the only one that has y going for me. I'm the only one with a unique impact in the round. And, book reading doesn't have a bigger impact on society because video games provide the same educational benefits. Refer back to my sources that cite an increase in test scores across numerous subjects cited in relation to video games. I have the same impact.	CON	710
710	S9500675b-A687e7b2	Video Games with Strong Language shouldn't exist.	I think that video games involving strong language shouldn't exist, because people can easily get used to that language and may start using it, which may cause fallouts with other people, and other issues like this, and this could ruin their life, and this has already happened to many people. I've got a good point here, and it makes sense, does it not? I am here to say something back to people who are against the above points. Parents let their kids play these games, and there are high amounts of them, especially in the UK and the US. I just don't understand why parents let them have these games. Games like Grand Theft Auto are definitely like the games I am describing. That game is absolutely awful. Foul language, drugs and more. That game is awful, and I know many kids who have this game, and it's very likely that they'll be growing and developing into foul-mouthed thugs, by playing them games a lot and getting used to that terrible language. Nobody should be playing these games.	PRO	711
711	S2442d956-A74d3077a	Video games are detrimental to the modern day society.	"My opponent says that I have been misleading the readers and comprehending his argument. I confess I did fail to comprehend his argument because it was not concise and did not follow, overall, a readable, at least to me, format. I will now spend the next few lines to explain as best as I could as to why I plea not guilty to his accusation of me misleading the reader. I. Accuracy of information: I try to find the most recent article or statistics relating to my argument and I double check most of the links that I post for correctness. II. Wording of phrases and spelling/grammar: I try to reread everything that I write, but because of time constraints, and because I'm only human, I can not possibly find every single error there is or every inconsistency. Therefore, I beseech the reader to overlook the occasional mistakes. III. Since this is my first argument, I do not know much about the preferred format of the debates although I have analyzed the structure of other debates and read the rules and terms. Please leave a comment about anything I might have missed and I would be very grateful. I am sorry if anything seems misleading and I will try and remember to not let it happen again if the reader could comment on what was misleading. I ""In a debate, both points of perspective are both opinions, not facts… Then what's the difference between the debate and just copy and pasting words from sources?"" Certainly debates are about opinions, but the opinions have to be justified by facts. I do not give exact numbers because they are indeed changing; I only give the rounded figure. The difference is that a debate is, by definition a discussion in which reasons are advanced for and against some proposition or proposal. Copy and paste is just as the name suggest, copy and paste things. II ""'I am sure that 25% of the world to somewhat degree, is glued to some technology that interferes with their life' This I did not state. Stop forcing words down my throat."" Are you sure, after all, I did copy and pasted that statement from Round 3. III ""You obviously cannot comprehend my statement because you did not read it thoroughly enough. …Did you ever see chess games for consoles in videogame stores?"" Okay, let me revise my statement, you say game play of games that seem educational are 99% not educational, right? But doesn't a game like COD 3 help you more than just by telling the brief history of WWII? It helps: - social skills- you have to communicate efficiently - teamwork- you need to work together - tactic work- you have to strategize your plan for the mission - reflexes- you have to react fast in such games - concentration- you need to focus on the task at hand - management skills- you have to travel and battle efficiently and it also helps you to prepare for war etc. Its seems that you are also ""forcing words down my throat."" Do you think you know me that well from the things that I told you in school? I don't seem to remember; perhaps you can juggle my memory, when I have ever said I don't play video games. I know I said I don't own consoles, but that's because I'm poor. Yes, in fact, I saw several chess games when I went to Game Stop on Thursday with my friends when we wanted to buy controllers for his Xbox. IV ""Really, I never said that I had 1st hand perspective and nor do you since the only games you play are online. I have actually played similar football games before so I have a slight idea of it. You, on the other hand, can't have anything to say because you didn't even own any consoles before."" Of course you didn't, or otherwise I would be quoting you. In round 3, what you mean when you said ""1st hand perspective is always most obvious?"" If you did not have 1st hand perspective, then what perspective did you have to back up your statements? Everything other than 1st hand perspective is research because you have to inquire the information from others. Wow, where did you learn your deductive skills? Obviously you don't know me that well. Just because I don't own any consoles doesn't mean I don't play video games. As I have said, just last Saturday, I went to my friend's house to play Dragon Age: Origins for the whole day. Almost every Sunday afternoon, my family would go visit my dad's friend and I would play on his Wii. I don't play video games on the weekdays because of the HW and reading that I have to complete. V ""You're funny. So you think people sit on the chair in the bar and just stare quietly at the screen the whole freaking day? …I seriously doubt that they would fix their eyes intently at their screen eh?"" Where did I say they just sit and not move? Did I say they didn't need to go to the bathroom? I don't think I did. Beside, they just stay in the bar getting drunk and watching the Superbowl for 4 hours, then what? Celebrate their teams winning by getting more intoxicated or lug home defeated. They can, however, go home with friend and continue the excitement by playing the video game of their favorite sport. VI ""Your statistics are not reliable. 9 out of 10 kids have viewed porn at least once. http://www.temptationseries.com...... So you're saying that video games tempting people with sexual ads so that they will spend money and play the game is good?"" I believe I said in 2006, note the year, 42% of youths age 10-17 had constantly seen Internet porn, and note the word constantly. Your source dates back to January of 2002, in London. When did I say that video games that tempt people with sexual ads so they will spend money and play the game are good? But we are not debating about the nature of the advertisement of video games, just whether or not the games themselves are detrimental to society. VII ""How is it different from dealing drugs? You were saying how the company was not at fault for creating inappropriate games so that the teens can play it. So drug dealers are not at fault for selling drugs because the teens apparently should be able to judge their actions?"" Is playing Scribblenauts or Drawn to Life: The Next Chapter or Wii Sports Resort or dozens of other children rated games really going to mess up a 3-7 year olds brain like drugs? People play violent games because they choose to play, don't you agree? You can't force someone to play violent games if they don't want to right? Freedom of choice. I did not say the company is not entirely at fault, after all, humans are corruptible. And most secular people aim for materialistic things, right? What better way to gain ownership of such things then to buy it with money? Now how can a CEO of a gaming company get more money? By getting more customers. How can he/she get more customers? By targeting the most vulnerable age groups: children. But since we are not arguing about how the gaming industry is detrimental to society, I see no use in pursuing this angle further. Same argument goes for the drug industry. http://games.venturebeat.com... VIII ""I would advise you to not force words down my throat anymore. …The most popular game of the ps3 is Metal Gear Solid 4."" How can you advice me on such matters that you your self have implied? Observe: Directly from round 2 ""You think that every kid doesn't watch porn behind their parent's backs or do illegal things?"" Let us take out the words every kid (e + k) and since the synonym for every is all (e = a), so by the substitution postulate, every kid equal all kid (e + k = a + k). (Sorry about the parentheses, but we just learned geometry last term and the definitions and theorems are still in my head.) Why would I say parents should watch their kids all day? The influence of peer pressure not only trace back to video games, it is also influenced by TV and the people older than them. When I did my research, I did not look solely on the games for PS3, but the rank of all console based games. After all, not every one who plays video games"	CON	712
712	S874a4709-Af4e852e8	Video Games Are the best and can help you learn	"Video games result in people spending more time playing them rarther than school work and or education work/purposes. It can also lead to anti-social behaviour in some cases although this is not always the case. ""you might be losing a couple of brain cells but you also gain more hand skill. I see why you are against them but try it your reflexes will get faster and you will see some hand, eye coordination growth."" - Pro One major issue with this claim is that having relfexes is better than having braincells that help your head function which is a lie as the more braincells you lose the more disabilities you will end up picking up thus videogames over time can lead to some serious issues. As for eye coordination perhaps this is true but staring at a screen for huge amounts of time can cause serious eye damage and because of this gaming companies actually acknoledge this and offer things like Gunnars which are made to give your eyes more protection. If people are making classes to protect your eyes while gaming then I ask how can it help with eye coordination? Perhaps you can spot things in the game easier but in real life your causing serious damage to your eyes. Furthermore videosgames are fun but often lead to more disadvantages than advantages for a majority of people and it can also ruin your education which is vital for life skills and career goals. In terms of ""Videos Games are the best and can help you learn"" I would say that Card Games and Tabletop games are superior to video games as they teach you to be more social with people in person and often doesn't result in educational drops. Sources: http://www.raisesmartkid.com... http://www.parentingscience.com..."	CON	713
713	See0927f6-A76e321b2	video games are bad for not only children, but all humans	Video games may be a leisure hobby, but it is detrimental to success. While some may call it a sport or competition, I think you must strive to be better in the real world rather than the virtual one. A sport that doesn't require you to be fit or even move from your place shouldn't count as a sport. Addiction- Con says that there should be more parental control over the time limit of video games. I argue that it is hard to control humans as it is, what with free will and stuff. Moreover, the resolution in layman terms is that videogames are bad for everyone, not just for children. How to control an adult who is wasting his life playing games and not focusing on his career? The boss can only control him at the workplace, and relatives can only offer advice and not order him around. Gaming makes us all more lazier than ever, and isn't productive. Except some gaming tournaments, gaming doesn't pay you back. Plus, gaming tournaments may not be of your favorite game, and not available in your locality. Problematic gamers- This only strengthens my argument that gaming is bad for humans. While recreational gamers exist, even they will endure eye damage and if they play really addicting games, get converted to problematic gamers. I disagree that they cause aggression though, the tests are biased. I know this would have strengthened my point otherwise, but its a matter of personal opinion. Eye damage- Con hasn't rebutted my point about eye damage. Prolonged gaming causes stress to the eyes. Electricity consumption- I have noticed that out of most apps, games are the ones that consume more battery in lesser time. This will indirectly lead to increased electricity consumption, and my place has lot of electricity shortages these days.	PRO	714
714	S7f95546c-Ac2b4b8a	Video games are not a significant cause of violence in children	I will be debating why video games are hardly a reason to blame violent acts cause by kids. Con will do the opposite. Keep in mind i count as a minor under the law because i am 13 years of age. You may continue the debate	PRO	715
715	Sdb09cefc-A185858a6	Video Games should be banned for people 18 and younger	"For con, You will be saying video games shouldn't be banned for 18 and younger. The rounds will look like this: 1. Acceptance [just write ""I accept"" in the first round] 2. Argument 3. Rebuttal I'm looking forward to debating anyone that accepts!"	PRO	716
716	Sf2f51256-Ae2a659ac	Video games cause more harm than good	Of course, I am here to debate against my opponent, Video games have become a massive part of today's culture , offering jobs, ways to connect, and is just plain fun. I am ecstatic to get this debate on the way and good luck to my opponent.	CON	717
717	Sfcfc1b7a-A76905f0b	Video games(PRO) vs books(CON) for learning	So I guess this debate comes to an end. I forward all the points I made in the previous round to this one. Now CON shall skip the next round by eeither posting some kind remarks or forfieting it. Video games FTW :D Vote PRO.	PRO	718
718	Sf6d610e8-Aec022ca5	The playing of video games has done more harm than good to society.	"For this round, I would like you to picture dynamite and fire. Sure enough, dynamite cannot explode without the ignition, which requires fire. Now this is exactly the same with video games and mentally ill players. The mentally ill people will not explode, so to speak, and by that I mean do something insanely stupid unless there is fire, which in this case symbolically means video games. What I am trying to point out to you is that the mentally challenged need some sort of stimulus to push them off the edge. Video games have proven to be strong enough and that is why we have all these killings and suicide cases. In the light of this, my client's claim ""there is an underlying factor"" holds no water.POINT CRUSHED.My client went on to naively say that in all these cases it is the player who commits the crime, not the game. If we were to adopt that view then we would be saying that if a 19 year old man was to gun down a 65 year old helpless woman, the former remains innocent as it is not him but the gun that committed the crime. To those who are paying close attention to this debate, please do not be swayed away from the fact that video games cause addiction by my opponent's use of hogwash like ""scientists have chemically proven...."" when all he is saying narrows down to video games being addictive. I would like to point out the fact that my opponent has done little to show the positive effects of video games and has only tried to underplay the negatives of gaming. This shows a lack of comprehension for the topic at hand. My opponent claimed that video game addcits have teachers and proffessors to reprimand them. That is a very erroneous statement because of it were so, we wouldn't have all the World of Warcraft addicts we have today. As a matter of fact, 40% of World of Warcraft players are addicted.[1]If we were to calculate their total playtime we would end up with six million years.[2].Now, this debate has the word ""society"" in the topic, so I ask if those sixty million years had been converted to productive work, would society not be at a higher standing? My opponent has requested that I provide evidence for the statement, allow me to quote myself, ""The mentally unbalanced people having descended into this state due excessive playing of video games."" There's the evidence: ithp.org/articles/violentvideogames.html In addition to the points I presented in the previous round, there is one crucial point about the effects of video games on health. Developers did try to get players to exercise whilst playing by making games like Nintendo Wii but it didn't just didn't have as much commercial success as the consoles which allow a player to play whilst sitted. These video games ultimately lead to obesity.[2]. In conclusion, I feel I have met all the logicalrequirements needed for me to win this debate, but I do believe the best debator is entitled to the victory(in that respect, vote pro). I have one request before I rest my case: if my client is to quote me again, then I beseech him to use proper grammar and spellings. In the second round, I clearly wrote ""mentally unbalanced"" but my opponent went on to quote me as having wrote ""mentally unbalance"" whether as an attempt to tarnish my image or an unbiased mistake, I do not know but I pray that it not be done again. [1]arstechnica.com/uncategorized/2006/08/7459 [2]kotaku.com/5891421/nearly-6-million-years-of-world-of-warcraft-healthy-for-players-brains [3]www.dailymail.co.uk/health/article-1389096/Playing-games-encourages-obesity-teens-making-hungry.html"	PRO	719
719	S631d457a-A430702e0	Modern video games are a superior storytelling medium to books, cinema, and the spoken word.	"Being an Aggie, I am unable to concentrate after the win over Alabama. (I would also request that no one vote against me for by university affiliation.) Thus, I return. I begin by again pointing out that Con has failed to cite any sources in support of his argument. I would note to voters that, should Con now cite to sources, given the rules of this debate, I would have no chance to rebut them because Round 5 is strictly for summation. Having edited and paraphrased Con""s assertions, I offer the following rebuttals"" 1. ""The majority of video game players don""t play for the story."" I cite Con to my source from my prior argument that rebuts this. I further cite Con to the following evidence. See http://www.gamasutra.com.... Since Con offers only conclusory statements and no evidence, I move on. 2. ""Reading is 100% of the of the storyline."" Con confuses the method used to convey a narrative with the medium as a whole. Books accomplish the conveyance of information through written words. Video games do it through game play. Thus, Con""s assertion that people play video games for the game play and not the narrative is like saying people use books to ""read"" and not to get a narrative. The method of narrative delivery is not at issue. The issue is the overall effectiveness of the narrative conveyed. 3. ""I in no way stated that video games have no plot."" I cite Con to his own arguments. ""Many games that are out don't even have a plot!"" I further cite to his immediately following sentence, ""There are many video games that don't have a plot"""" Additionally, Con concedes that, ""major games, especially console games for the PS3 tend to have plots."" I refer Con to the definitions of this debate.""[F]or purposes of this debate, [video games] refers to the electronic games that operate on the Playstation 3, Xbox 360, and PC."" Thus, Con admits that many of the games under discussion in this debate have plots. He refutes his own point. 4. ""The majority of gamers are kids younger then 18."" Con offers no evidence here. I cite Con to the following to disprove his assertion. See http://www.telegraph.co.uk.... 5. ""Movies and books solely focus on the plot, generally, where video games tend to cloud the plot with the entertainment value."" Con cites no evidence for this. First, I would point out that many movies ""cloud the plot with entertainment value."" Indeed, the defined purposes of a narrative medium includes ""producing engagement."" This is another way of saying ""entertain the user enough that they keep using the medium."" Thus, I claim that Con""s argument that videos games provide greater ""entertainment value"" supports my position. Indeed, it can be easily argued that the central purpose of a narrative medium is to produce entertainment. If a narrative does not entertain, it is difficult for it to accomplish any other purposes because no one will pay attention. 6. ""I don't see in any way how a video game can express the morals of a story any better then a book or movie."" I do not argue that video games express a moral better than other mediums. I would assert they do that equally well. I argue, using evidence, that video games create a greater long term retention of the lessons learned through classical operant conditioning. Since the defined purpose of a narrative medium is ""to teach the user a moral or lesson"", long term retention is far more important. It is commonly accepted that the goal of teaching is retention. 7. ""Books describe things, and then the readers mind can easily create this 'world' that's described, since a minds storage can be much, much, greater and detailed then any video game . . . video games would limit that since you can't make these things in your mind . . ."" I cite Con to the following source that establishes that ""studies suggest that video games should not be viewed as restrictive but instead as vehicles by which young people can expand and enrich their imaginations as well as their concepts of individuality and their connection with the world. "" See http://capping.slis.ualberta.ca.... This refutes his claim that video games restrict imagination. More importantly, Con misses the forest for the trees. My point is that because video games create more immersive worlds, whether through imagination or by providing specific sensory detail, they are more engaging and more successfully accomplish the defined purposes. 8. ""In your labeled '10.' paragraph you think that I've mistaken your previous 4th assertion, I disagree."" I feel that this point has been sufficiently argued. I reassert my prior argument and allow the voters to make their own decision. 9. ""Having these additional options . . . doesn't 'improve' anything . . ."" A successful narrative structure increases reader understanding of the story. A narrative is a series of choices by characters as they respond to events. In a movie, book, or spoken narrative, users can, without the medium becoming unwieldy, explore only a few variations of the outcome of character choices (although there is admittedly some inconsequently flex in this area for each medium). Modern video games, through saving and interactivity, allow users to explore the consequences of various character actions. Therefore, they allow readers to more fully explore the possibilities of a narrative. Taking note that Con has yet to offer any evidence to support his own positions, I attack the other three mediums to demonstrate their inferiority. I apologize for the exceptionally brief nature of these attacks. The site character limit is a ruthless master. 1. Books Video games are more effective than books as narrative mediums because ""playing video games requires more involvement and creative input than reading a book or watching a film - and also offers more opportunities to be active and sociable."" Source: http://www.telegraph.co.uk... 2. Cinema Due to character count limitations, I cite Con and voters to the following sources that establish modern video games are superior to movies in terms of engagement. Source #1: http://www.guardian.co.uk... Source #2: http://unrealitymag.com... 3. Spoken Word Spoken narratives fail most noticeably at conveying a narrative structure. Because spoken narratives have no permanent form, they are subject to change through each repetition. Thus, they have no consistent narrative structure and change too often to effectively be relied upon to accomplish any of the primary goals of a narrative medium over the long-term. In contrast, video games have an almost unchanging narrative structure. Source: http://www.historyworkshop.org.uk.... ""Oral history brings with it its own challenges. Although we had access to those who had experienced events at first hand, there is no guarantee that their version of events is accurate. On two occasions, it became clear that a subject was trying to mislead us about what happened."" Finally, I cite the following as support for my OVERALL argument and to discharge my burden. ""What""s more, experts say, serious games and virtual environments may be the future of education. Not only do students find gaming more approachable and engaging than lectures and PowerPoint presentations, they insist on them. Simulations also provide a more inviting and lifelike context in which to make choices, see results, and apply learning in real-time."" Source: http://venturebeat.com..."	PRO	720
720	Sd08d61c8-A8087f8fb	Video games are benifical to people of every age.	Excuse me if I don't follow procedure this is my first debate and I am new to debate.org.* Video games are very helpful to people's every day life. It helps kids with there reaction times, eye hand coordination, and problem solving skills. Many games even help with kids social skills such as W.O.W(World of Warcraft) A M.M.O(Massively Online Multiplayer). There are many studies showing this. I'll site if asked. I'm looking forward to this debate, being it my first.	PRO	721
721	S2f5f5fc2-Ad7535ed3	Video Games Cause Bad Behavior	"To answer your questions, Garbage in equals garbage out and You are what you eat. If I am wrong please address them in your rebuttal. Now as I said before you must get in significant trouble to be counted as bad behavior. So what games would be included to this list? I would say a game all my friends play would be GTA IV, the MW series, and some fighting games such as Tekken and Soul Calibur. My friends don't go around shooting people or trying to cut people in half with a crystal sword, we are ""normal"" I use that loosely since normal is a generalized term. Now here is where I stand, people who use the ""The game made me do it"" excuse are stupid people who don't deserve to play games. They are misusing the games to get what they want. I also say if the parents think the kids aren't ready for it they shouldn't buy them the game in the first place. I mean anyone who has played MW knows how annoying they can be, and if I am not mistaken a grown man actually chocked a kid(didn't kill him) because the kid made fun of him. http://www.youtube.com... Now saying that does necessarily causes bad behavior but then you can't call one incident a ""oh my gosh you just lost your case"". That is wrong. This is an isolated case. Now going back to the MW series. It is probably the most frustrating game ever created, and people who hate Halo that might be the number 1 to you. How do people say games cause bad behavior? They say it because of violence. Repeating myself, the parents bought these games, and if they didn't they sure know they are playing it! If you don't want your kids ""being mean to kids"" because of this game, STOP THEM FROM PLAYING IT! Who says they aren't being mean because of the parents, because of bullies, or even because they are just trying to get attention and ruin games for kids. If one kid, this is just a random scenario, kills a kid from playing GTA IV I am pretty sure the parents will stop the kids from playing this game. Now having this so called ""bad behavior"" is a bad generalization for kids. The parents may think their child is this perfect angel of a kid when they may actually be a bully ruining a kids life but when they finally notice it they will blame the game! If this is true isn't TV evil as well. Football makes adults to some crazy things and things that kids are watching today such as Adventure Time and Regular Show, which use choice words that aren't allowed in school. So games in general can't cause bad behavior they don't even promote bad behavior, they depict bad behavior such as killing people but for some people games are actually a release or escape from the real world. I shall leave my arguments at this and if you can't get the video I shall repost it in my next argument. I also know Thanksgiving is this week so I hope that won't get in the way."	CON	722
722	S33b3c1cd-Aa70b1734	Video games are the sole reason for violent teens, and other persons.	"Ok well first off I thought you were taking the other side on this debate. However it was my mistake I will do my best. Counter #1: You say that almost all of the mass murders were carried out by mentally ill people. However you do not know why they killed those people. They very well could have been influenced by video games. As a matter of fact being mentally ill will make someone even more submissive to video games influence. Example: A mass shooting in Washington, D.C. In which an angry, mentally-ill young man shot and killed a dozen of his fellow citizens. This happened on the week that the popular game Grand Theft Auto V came out. Now just because they are close to each other does not prove anything. This report was made on the subject: According to Media Matters, MSNBC""s Mika Brzezinski of the Morning Joe show said that ""it""s kind of hard not to make a connection [between games and the Navy Yard shooting] when you hear [the shooter's] friend saying that he would watch on a life size screen these violent video games for hours and hours and hours and hours and hours."" The Telegraph""s Nick Allen described the shooter""s ""darker side"" which ""saw him playing violent ""zombie"" video games in his room, sometimes from 12.30pm until 4.30am."" Is it odd to describe a mass murderer""s ""darker side"" not as his killings or other unstable interactions with people, but as an activity he shares with millions of other people? (http://www.forbes.com...) Counter #2: Now just as you said in your first argument,""Almost all of the homicides, and mass murders in public are carried out by mentally ill persons."" The video games are affecting the mentally ill not so much normal people. I too play video games but if a mentally ill person is playing GTAV then maybe they think it is possible. I cannot write my opposing argument due to the limit. However I want voters to remember I accidentally started this."	PRO	723
723	Se170e8b7-A8c1a2dc4	video games really cause bad behaviour in children	I feel that this is not true !!! What I am trying to state is that if children ARE at home alone then they are addicted to their game and infleuenced to have bad behiour!!!!!!! In conclusion, I think that video games DO bring out the bad behaviour/bad side of children !!!! :)))))))))))	CON	724
724	S5547489c-A6b33e44d	Should teens be able to buy violent video games and why	I am going to be in the center on this issue. Although some teens can handle violent video games, some can not. Some, in studies, have become more aggressive and less-agreeable due to the playing of violent video games. My personal position is that we should not take risks; violent video games should be more strongly prohibited against teens than now. I believe that a parent can decide what is right for their children - but the teen should not be able to buy the game without parental consent.	CON	725
725	S6451c25f-A7d3eca9a	Video games count as free speech, and should be protected under the First Amendment.	I hope that you are well. I would suggest that you don't forfeit. You still have one last round to make your case and I suggest that you use it to your advantage. I will object to what you have written thus far and make my argument for why violent/mature video games should not be made available for purchase to minors. I'm assuming that you're justifying the sale of mature video games to young children based on the idea that violence is not promoted by video games. I agree with this premise, but I do not believe that this should be the merit upon which we decide whether or not we should sell mature video games to children. Instead, I believe that we should prevent the sale of these games to children because they are not old enough to understand the implications of violence in society. A child may be desensitized towards violent displays of human interactions and this will affect his ability to react appropriately to real life demands. For example, a child may witness violence in the streets and think it normal due to prior exposure via video games. Children are easily impressionable. If a video game commercial claims their product is cool then the child will have little contrary reason to believe otherwise. He may or may not have responsible parents that are monitoring his exposure to these kinds of adverts. A child does not typically question the suggestions and commands of others and may be influenced to purchase a product that is not appropriate for his age. The decisions of whether or not children should be playing these games should be in the hands of the parents, and not in the child's.	CON	726
726	S5b40f34d-Add33229d	Competitive video games should be considered a sport.	"According to dictionary.com, sport is an aphetic form of disport, which means ""To divert or amuse (oneself)"" According to SportAccord, for something to be considered a sport, the following guidelines must be met: Have an element of competition Be in no way harmful to any living creature Not rely on equipment provided by a single supplier (excluding proprietary games such as arena football) Not rely on any ""luck"" element specifically designed into the sport Competitive video games have an element of competition, are not harmful (when played by guidelines as with any other sport), are generally proprietary, and don't rely on any ""luck"" element."	PRO	727
727	Sd672d38d-Acac2ccc9	Violent Video games should be ban	This is a very good debate topic. However, it is clear that video games do not lead to violent outbursts. The following are three articles about this: http://www.forbes.com... http://www.usnews.com... http://psychcentral.com... In the United States, there is a lot of fear mongering in the media. If it bleeds it leads, is not just a cute expression. In America sensationalism sells. I have been around real violence. I have seen death first hand. What I observed is that in life there are very specific reasons why people commit violent acts and in many cases, it took two to tango. Rarely, is just an innocent bystander attacked at random. The only exception I can make for that are street gangs. Street gangs will attack at random.	CON	728
728	Sfb5d4752-A762b5caa	Contender chooses topic (Video Games)	"I kindly remind Pro that he cannot argue in this round. Rebuttals =============== 3. Innovation The topic didn't stray from the main point. Games that are released very frequently can always stay up to date. For example, let's say you are creating a video game series, you could release games every year, or release games every 5 years. Assuming that your first game comes out in 2015, here is the technology you will have access to: Game 1:2015 Game 2:2016 Game 3:2017 Game 4:2018 Game 5:2019 Game 6:2020 Game 7:2021 Game 8:2022 etc. This means that your games will always be up to date with the newest technology. Now, if you chose the other option of releasing games every five years, here is the technology your games will have access to: Game 1: 2015 Game 2: 2020 Game 3: 2025 Game 4: 2030 Game 5: 2035 Game 6: 2040 As you can see, the option where you release games every year would make sure your games stay up to date with the newest technology. Games that are released every 5 years don't stay up to date. The franchise has a sudden spike of technology, making it up to date, however, in that next 4 year gap, the game is out of date. The technology is outdated since new technology came out that year, but you can't add it to your old game. As for losing appeal, you would lose interest. Yes, you would be hyped up for the next installment, but what about the most recent installment? After a year or two you may have nothing else to do in the game, you would've already unlocked most of the content and there's nothing new to explore. The game gets boring, that's why people are hyped up for a newer installment, they're bored. Furthermore, if the series stays dead for too long, people start to forget. Look at Half Life, yes, people are still sold on the idea that Half Life 2, episode 3 will come out soon, but the majority of people just use ""Half Life 3 confirmed"" as a joke now. Some people have already moved on to other games. So the franchise loses steam and valuable fans. 1. Multiplayer When setting up your Internet, it's a one time process, just like a computer. You also have pretty fast connections on console. The truth is, console multiplayer is superior to PC multiplayer, and Pro concedes this fact. 1. Marketing and Business Of course it's not the same to the McDonald's Monopoly campaign, I'm using it as an analogy. Again, it doesn't make the GAME better, just makes it more worthwhile. Pro's last bit of text is that you get a sweet camo that you can use. You also have awesome camos in COD Ghosts that you can use to personalize your load out and character. Conclusion ================ In conclusion, COD Ghosts is better than CS:GO, and COD is overall better than CS due to the following reasons: Newest graphic and performance technology, since it's more recent. You can have fun with your friends at the same house. There are more game modes that cater toward the non-competitive crowd, or parties. Single Player campaign to play Large, immersive maps Huge community Overall better multiplayer system And other reasons found in the previous rounds Thank you Pro for the awesome debate, and thank you voters for voting. Vote Con! Again, pro cannot argue in this round."	CON	729
729	S6f8c5872-A7c38d728	Video games are a better source of entertainment than movies	Interactive You can use a tool to watch movies too you have a remote control and you also have different buttons you can operate on netflix. Time It's better going to the movie theatres than sitting all day playing a video game because if you play it too much you could get tired of it. Replayability You can also rewatch movies and catch things that you haven't missed. It's better and more entertaining rewatching movies than replaying video games.	CON	730
730	Sfb5d4733-A4ec3947a	Contender chooses topic (Video Games)	I can't think of what to debate... BoP is ALWAYS shared 10,000 character limit 72 hours to vote 5 rounds Open to anyone You must abide by the rules. Failure to do so will result in an automatic 7 point forfeit RULES: 1. The topic must be about video games 2. The topic must be debatable 3. The debate must be just a normal debate (no tic tac toes, rap battles, wars, etc.) 4. You must take the Pro side of the topic 5. You must argue in round 1, after explaining the topic. 6. Due to rule 5, you cannot argue in round 5 (Don't care what you do, just don't forfeit or argue.) 7. No spamming or trolling. Good luck to my opponent!	CON	731
731	S2f5f5fc2-A5d3ecb91	Video Games Cause Bad Behavior	"All right now we may be debating about video games but we must be able to show how other sources of entertainment may factor in on how people may do some crazy things. I shall bring up Ozzy Osbourne. His music that teens listened to made them kill themselves. The parents tried to sue him, but get this a court defended him and not just any court THE SUPREME COURT. The highest court authority is defending a man whose music made children kill themselves but was it truly the music that made them kill themselves? No it was their stupid minds that made things up as they were listening to the song. No way would just listening to a song make you kill yourself even if the song itself kept saying kill yourself in it. This proves that music causes more bad behavior in teens than games. Games may make you do some stupid things, which is impossible since a game is just a disc you put into a game system or computer that is made for, I don't know ENTERTAINMENT for people who are bored. Games are important tools for creativity for teens like myself. I watched games for 4 years before I even started playing them just to learn more about them. It takes a very weak mind to not being able to stop yourself from taking a gun and high-jacking a car and going on a rampage. Games themselves may, how would I say this, ""influence"" the actions some kids may take but who is it actually doing these actions? Is the game somehow possessing the games like how demons or ghosts may possess a person? Are these games taking control of their moral being? No, these are just some stupid kids who think they are being cool but are really about to ruin games for every kid under 18 who plays M rated games. If parents think they are the ones protecting their children well they are wrong. A kid walks up to their parents and says may I have MW3? I will be nice to everyone and won't go on a killing spree! Will the parents say, well now that you put it that way... No that is poor judgement from the parents! You can't blame a child for something that their parental guardians bought for them because if it is games causing the bad behavior and if those news reports are right HOW CAN YOU BLAME THE CHILD!? Oh, it is the child playing this game they are the ones to blame. They aren't the ones who got 60 dollars to pay for it. They aren't the ones who went and bought this M rated game. It was their parents are guardian figures like an older brother or uncle or aunt. You cannot blame a child for a parents mistake. If you don't want you child who is probably a perfect little angel like you portray them to be don't give them M rated games that you might say will ""corrupt their little minds!"" You cannot blame a child for some mistake another person made! If you blame a child for smoking you must ask yourself who gave them it. Was it the parent? You don't blame the child, you take that child away from that parent and maybe that parent will be facing a fine. I hope you will realize that children aren't the ones to blame, the parents shouldn't get them these games if you believe it will ""make"" them do it. No, the human mind is more complex than any game could be, it just takes a little COMMON sense to realize it. If a game makes you jump off a 100 foot building and you survive all the time would you jump off this 100 foot building? NO BECAUSE IF WE ARE SUPPOSED TO BE THE SMARTEST CREATURES ON EARTH BE SMARTER. If you continue to say that we are debating games and nothing else that is also wrong. As I am to prove that games aren't causing this behavior it is actually the HUMAN MIND. Games are made for entertainment, the HUMAN MIND is created for us to use and if we neglect it's power we shouldn't even watch TV or have one because we won't be able to tell if we are doing something right or wrong. I hope you will all see that it is the user not the product. Such as a gun can't kill without the help of an outside force such as a human finger or an automated trigger finger that a human would have to make to pull the trigger without picking up the gun. To say that the commercials make us do things we would rather not is also stupid. Such as a potato chip commercial ""it is so good you can't just stop at one."" What is someone down right hates those chips. They can have one and stop. Seeing that commercial won't make them want to have more. So saying that if I were to kill 1 billion people on MW is saying I am going to kill 1 person, just one is ridiculous. I would like to meet these so called psychiatric specialists and tell them how I feel on this subject. Not but punching them but sitting down and telling them the truth. I play all the violent games out there and if you were to know me you would say completely otherwise. People must learn how to be good instead of destroying a strong basis of what people do to get rid of stress and anger. http://www.jesus-is-savior.com..."	CON	732
732	S117d4c1a-Ae4524f83	Violent video games really cause bad behavior in children.	"According the American Psychological Association, violent video games can increase children's aggression. So when kids have anxiety, which they do, instead of soothing themselves, calming themselves, talking about it, expressing it to someone, or even expressing it emotionally by crying, they tend to externalize it. They can attack something, they can kick a wall, they can be mean to a dog or a pet."" Additionally, there's an increased frequency of violent responses from children who play these kinds of video games. Violent video games don't teach kids moral consequences. ""If you shoot somebody in one of these games, you don't go to jail, you don't get penalized in some way — you get extra points!"""	PRO	733
733	Scc6490a7-Af003175f	Playing video games promote creativity more than reading a book	"As long as your definitions are not exclusive, I am fine, as the manner you defined them in was quite literal for something as abstract as creativity. First I will establish the quantity of books versus that of video games. First, the ESRB, or Entertainment Software Rating Board, maintains and rates around 32000 video games based on content[1]. This measly number is completely outweighed by the over 130 million books that are in the world at this time[2]. Even if I say that video games produce 1,000 times the amount of creativity than a single book, books would still, in total, aspire and ""accumulate"" over 4 times video game's worth. Furthermore, a book is more accessible. The only skill required of books is the ability to read, while video games, by their very nature, require a large set of skills which degrades their accessibility. Also, it is much easier to get a book. A video game requires hardware which is typically expensive and complicated, while a book is very simple to obtain and use. The reason why following a story created by someone else promotes more creativity than a video game is imagery. To conceptualize anything, the human brain (under normal circumstances, i.e. not blind or visually impaired) processes information and then mentally creates an image to pair with a character. When someone reads a story, for example, they create individual images and concepts to represent a character. They can then use these ""images"" to create whatever they please. The concept of an academic essay intrinsically promotes creativity. Moreover, numerous readers use their ideas to create fan fiction, a field of writing where individuals expand stories based of their own individual creativity, further promoting creativity through books. Why this matters is that it can be applied to any book, while a lot of video games cannot match this level of creativity."	CON	734
734	S9b9e68e4-A669228f2	Playing Video Games are greater in benefits than reading Fiction Books.	I will be making an argument on how playing video games will outperform the benefits you will receive from reading fiction books. Why fiction books you may ask? It is only fair due to the fact that there is very little non fiction video games, and comparing non fiction to fiction will not be fair due to both having different purposes. Video games are generally to entertain while fiction books hold the same niche. The negative will try to disprove my arguments and provide points on how reading fiction books can be advantageous compared to video game playing. The arguments may vary as long as they stay on topic. Furthermore, when I say 'benefit' I am complying to which has better psychological benefits and which provides more entertainment. First round will be acceptance. Second will be our first arguments. Third will be our rebuttals and fourth will be the basic conclusion of the entire debate.	PRO	735
735	S117d4c1a-Aa036b4c2	Violent video games really cause bad behavior in children.	"lol I agree, but I will do my best to give you a good debate. 1. A person over the age of 17 is considered an adult in the realm of entertainment. Ergo, no argument. 2. You stated that ""You probably have the mental capacity to not go crazy and kill people."" This argument helps to support my claim of ""violent video games do not contribute to violence"" Most people do have the mental reasoning capabilities to know right from wrong. 3. Your third claim supports mine as well. You claim that people blame their violent actions on video games. Because you used the term ""blame"" it is safe to assume that you meant that the actions were not actually caused by the video game itself. Conclusion Remind me, are you for or against the idea that violence is caused by video games? It seems a bit unclear lol Anyway, have fun with your response!"	CON	736
736	Se362974a-Ac50d4ed5	Video Games have made a positive impact on our everyday lives.	I accept your challenge. I believe video games have negatively impacted our country because of violence in video games and obesity. I don't know the rest of your arguements so I will leave it at that.	CON	737
737	Sb1a6f17a-A3792bce4	Violence in video games does not significantly contribute to real world violence.	Wylted and I will be debating this topic. Definitions Significantly- in a way that is relevant or has an important effect on something Observations This debate is about the impact of violence in video games, not about the impact of video games themselves. I am looking forward to a great debate!!	PRO	738
738	Sf6d610e8-A245a2691	The playing of video games has done more harm than good to society.	First of all, give me some context for your arguments. What were some of the negative effects of video games that you mention that can be directly linked to video games? What were some of the positive effects?	CON	739
739	Sce330406-Aec8cbf8c	Violent Video Games Cause Violent Behavior	"S1: First, the language argument that ""Aggression doesn't equate Violence"" without a basis disregards context. Your ""refutation""(?) exceeds the source. You have to provide that it isn't specific to that definition not that a word has more than one definition in general. Bunk. To back this up from within the source: [[ Japanese children rated their own behavior in terms of physical aggression, such as hitting, kicking or getting into fights with other kids; the U.S. children rated themselves too, but the researchers took into account reports from their peers and teachers as well. ]] There is no reason it doesn't refer to violence. --- S2: Second is a misquote: [[ But Dr. Cheryl K. Olson, co-director of the Center for Mental Health and the Media at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, isn't convinced. ""It's not the violence per se that's the problem, it's the context and goals of the violence,"" said Olson, citing past research on TV violence and behavior. There are definitely games kids shouldn't be playing, she said, for example those where hunting down and killing people is the goal. But she argues that the label ""violent video games"" is too vague. Researchers need to do a better job at defining what is considered a violent video game and what constitutes aggressive behavior, she added. Further, she adds, playing games rated ""M"" for mature has become ""normative behavior"" for adolescents, especially boys. ""It's just a routine part of what they do,"" she says. ]] First, it exceeds the claim that it effects children by entering into a different age bracket (adolescents) and second it's a generic counter-balance claim for any given newsource to prevent bias however she too states that certain games should not be used and then proposes that the proposition is loose, which is fine however it does not dismiss: [[ In every group, children who were exposed to more video game violence did become more aggressive over time than their peers who had less exposure. This was true even after the researchers took into account how aggressive the children were at the beginning of the study -- a strong predictor of future bad behavior. The findings are ""pretty good evidence"" that violent video games do indeed cause aggressive behavior, says Dr. L. Rowell Huesmann, director of the Research Center for Group Dynamics at the University of Michigan's Institute for Social Research in Ann Arbor. There are two ways violent media can spur people to violent actions, said Huesmann, who has been studying violence in media and behavior for more than 30 years. First is imitation; children who watch violence in the media can internalize the message that the world is a hostile place, he explains, and that acting aggressively is an OK way to deal with it. Also, he says, kids can become desensitized to violence. ""When you're exposed to violence day in and day out, it loses its emotional impact on you,"" Huesmann said. ""Once you're emotionally numb to violence, it's much easier to engage in violence."" ]] It doesn't even counter it. They are talking about two different age groups and I focusing on children. My opponents criticism holds no water. --- Q1: The second source is pretty much the same. [[ When asked if it was okay for a boy to strike a peer if that peer said something negative about him, for example, these kids were more likely to say yes. They also scored higher on measures of hostility, answering that they would to respond with aggressive action when provoked, even accidentally. The more long-term gamers were also more likely to fantasize about hitting someone they didn""t like. ]] Solves the ""language"" issue. --- Q2: [[ Working with 3,034 boys and girls in the third, fourth, seventh, and eighth grades in Singapore, Anderson and his colleagues asked the children three times over a period of two years detailed questions about their video game habits. ... ""What this study does is show that it""s media violence exposure that is teaching children and adolescents to see the world in a more aggressive kind of way,"" says Anderson. ""It shows very strongly that repeated exposure to violent video games can increase aggression by increasing aggressive thinking."" Brain imaging studies also hint that exposure to violent gaming may actually temporarily change the brain. In a 2011 study, for example, after a week of daily video gaming, brain scans of a small group of volunteers showed less activity in the regions connected to emotions, attention, and inhibition of impulses compared to participants who played non-violent video games. The effect appeared to be reversible, but the results suggested that extended periods of play could lead to more stable changes in the brain. ]] --- Q3: Completely shows my opponent misquoted the segment chosen: [[ Previous studies have suggested that the short-term effects of spiking stress hormones""typical of the fight-or-flight response""can rev up players"" sensitivity to slights or provocations, and that playing violent games can lead to longer-term suppression of empathy. Another recent study purported to find a link between violent video games and racism. Anderson and his team, however, did not see any significant difference in empathy among the players who played more or fewer hours. That confirmed earlier lab-based studies that showed both undergraduates who played violent games and those that played non-violent ones were equally likely to help scientists pick up dropped pens. ]] This has nothing to do with with children, for one, and it has nothing to do with this study the article is on, for two, it looks at other studies which suggested something entirely different that wasn't even measured in the study cited. The ""third"" point has the same problem as the third point last time as it's an anti-bias point however if one reads it: [[ More recent research has not found that children who play VVG are more violent than other kids, nor harmed in any other identifiable fashion. A recent longitudinal study of my own, following 165 10- to 14-year-old boys and girls over a three-year period, now in press with Journal of Psychiatric Research, finds no long-term link between VVG and youth aggression or dating violence. ]] The age itself exceeds that of the scope of the study itself. The actual study, if read, shows as the article states: ""That""s because children tend to act less aggressively as they get older, and learn more mature ways of dealing with conflicts than lashing out."" However it is backed up with the above in segment Q2 which goes back and addresses the issue throughout the study and the rerouting of native behavior and behavioral choices. --- O1: I am no longer going to constantly ""assert"" the equivocation problem since it's been shown false twice now and it is clearly false in the third if one should read it. It does not even hide the term violence and it is extremely clear that it refers to at least violent behavior and fighting. As for the ""source doesn't present evidence"" the studies are cited and there is a link to one at the bottom. It isn't impossible to verify. That doesn't even make sense. I would understand if there were no citations, it wasn't reviewed, it didn't have scholarly status, and it was not from a reputable source but there's no value to your ""questioning"" as it is as sound as any source would get. You have to objectively prove why it's not a sound source not just inject why you don't like it. The standard for endorsement has nothing to do with the validity of the information. That is an outright Strawman (http://www.nizkor.org...) and means nothing. --- F1: ""Third, the evidence it uses isn't even significant. The results from the study said, and I quote, ""These studies find that playing violent video games does, indeed, cause aggression. The effect is a correlation of about r = .20"", which is statistically insignificant. It's more likely that an alternative cause, like one's previously mentioned, are causing the violent behavior other than the violence in video games themselves. "" I have to prove that VVGs cause aggression. This proves that VVGs cause aggression. You rejection based on the ""amount"" of aggression is ( http://rationalwiki.org... ) shifting goalposts. Instead of my source proving the point and being sufficient my opponent has decided that it's ""not enough"" and ""doesn't work"" based on absolutely no criteria. Furthermore the opponent doesn't explain why it's statistically insignificant or what ""r=.20"" actually means which misleads those who do not know to simply be swayed without an explanation which further makes for an actual Appeal to Authority: Self (http://www.nizkor.org...) as my opponent feels they are of sufficient standing to declare this as fact without backing. --- Overview: Pivot 1: My opponent commits Equivocation as a means of defense. Pivot 2: My opponent misquotes the sources, does not posit his own, and inters his own reasoning as a means of dissuading others regardless of his not being an Authority and his not having grounds or ignoring the content and context. Pivot 3: My opponent admits that at least one source did provide sufficient evidence that it does occur but then shifts the goalpost stating that it's occurrence was not sufficient to meet their criteria which was not revealed prior making it shifting of goal posts, a logical fallacy, and completely unfair. Conclusion: I was hoping I'd be reading things that backed VVGs rather than having to discuss basic language deciphering skills and listening to made up on the spot criteria. Note: I dropped the last two sources in agreement with my opponent because though they are actually signs of of the behavior in children and why they are so impressionable (and it does talk about video games in the last two sources) it's easier to continue without them."	PRO	740
740	Sb1a6f17a-A9e4989	Violence in video games does not significantly contribute to real world violence.	"I've been meaning to explore some things that coincide with my arguments and this is a great opportunity to do so. TRAINED TO KILL I'll explain this more as I go along, but the fact is kids are being trained to kill. Everyday they are on their video games simulating acts of murder over and over. Call of Duty, Grand Theft Auto all these games work to desensitize kids to violence and murder. It infects their brain and they lose their conscience. I hope by the end of this debate, I've convinced a lot of people to expose themselves and children to these violent forms of media significantly less. NOT BORN TO KILL Humans despite being a violent species are disgusted with violence. They can't bring themselves to kill people. Experts say that in World War 2 when solders would get within killing range of an enemy combatant only 1 in 5 would take the necessary shot. According to Army historian Brig. Gen. S.L.A. Marshall this has nothing to do with cowardice. Soldiers would still do feats of heroics, but just have a repulsion towards murder. Recovered muskets from the civil war showed that 90% were fully loaded. This means most of those simply weren't fired. Soldiers were pretending to shoot at the enemy. In the 1960s law enforcement was shown to have a similar problem. Cops just weren't shooting at suspects even when civilian lives were in danger. Psychologists stepped in to help the government create more efficient killers. How did they do it? Well look at a quote from the article this whole section is sourced from. ""Target practice on hollowed cabbages filled with ketchup to mimic the way a bullet rips open a human head. Marching to chants of ""kill, kill, kill."" Video game simulations that reward points for every successful ""shot."" These are among hundreds of techniques that experts say can recondition the human brain."" That's right. The government uses video games to desensitize soldiers to acts violence, so killing becomes more palatable. This stuff actually worked. By the time Vietnam rolled around the kill rate was at 90% and is likely even higher now. The kill rate jumping from 20% to 90% in military operations aided by violent video games meant to desensitize people clearly fulfills my portion of the BOP, but let's take it a step further. http://m.sfgate.com... DESENSITIZE ME It's not so much Video games being directly responsible for real world violence so much as violent video games being a major contributing factor. The more kids play violent video games the more they become desensitized to violence and the less empathy they have for victims of violence. http://static2.wikia.nocookie.net... It's simple. The more you see violent images, the less it bothers you to see violent images. This desensitization makes it easier to either commit violent actions or to stand by and do nothing when violent acts are being committed. So it contributes in 2 major ways. I'm not the only one that sees this connection between violent video games and real world violence. ""In fact the surgeon general, the National Institute of Mental Health and multiple professional organizations "" including the American Medical Association, the American Psychiatric Association and the American Psychological Association "" all consider media violence exposure a risk factor for actual violence."" http://mobile.nytimes.com... I'm not saying that an individual that plays violent video games is going to be violent, but it certainly increases their chance of becoming violent, which in turn has a huge real world effect when taking into account how many people are exposed to this desensitization. In one recent study over 30 people were exposed to different images before playing a game where they could harm their opponent by blasts of sound. The people exposed to the most violent images, were far more likely to punish their opponent more than the ones not exposed to them. http://videogames.procon.org... DR. BRUCE Dr. Bruce Perry an expert brain development in children provides a useful list of things that contribute to kids becoming violent scholastic.com z His first cause directly blames desensitization to violence as a result of violent media (aka video games). Number 2 is becoming detached from people which could also be a result of playing violent games too much. His number 5 reason is because we are becoming more practiced at killing and specifically mentions violent video games as helping with the practice. http://teacher.scholastic.com... If you think that video games aren't good at teaching anything check out this article. http://www.wired.com... A man actually saves a life from the practice he got on a military recruiting game called America's Army. FACT OR FICTION According to psychologists, up to 25% of the population can't tell the difference between reality and fantasy. http://healthland.time.com... Maybe on an intellectual level they can, but these violent games are desensitizing them worse than anybody else. These people are at particular risk of going too far after being pushed. Violent video are a major contributor to real world violence. CONCLUSION I'll post my rebuttals next rebound and anxiously await my opponent's arguments."	CON	741
741	Se8780244-A89314b56	schools should allow kids to play video games at break	Ok what if theres a new kid nobody likes? He dosent know around the school and is always left alone what will he do at break the best awnser is play video games to spend the time also kids can do multiplayer at games and they can learn about cooparation and teamwork they can have fun playing video games at school then playing at home since they cant have friends at thier house forever.	PRO	742
742	S7f02efbf-A65984801	Playing violent video games make people more violent.	"Thanks for accepting this debate. Let me list a few points: 1. Japan is the world's largest video game industry. Inside of course may include violent games. However, according to statistics in the past few years, Japan is one of the countries that have the lowest rate of people becoming violent or performing violent behaviour. This can prove that playing violent video games don't really do much in being violent. 2. According to a 2002 US Secret Service study of 41 individuals involved in school shootings found that only 12% were attracted by violent video games, while reading violent books or watching violent films took 24% and 27% respectively. These numbers show that violent video games are not to be blamed. 3. According to a 2001 US Surgeon General's report, the strongest risk factors for school shootings centered on mental stability and the quality of home life. However, not media exposure (including games, movies and books). 4. * What actually causes people to become more violent is not video games, but the quality of the society, the social atmosphere. Video games only mislead you to a wrong way of thinking. They only misdirect you to think that maybe killing is right or something like that. However, not literally become violent, which is like beating or killing. Misleading ones thoughts is different than making you or causing you to beat or kill or become violent. 5. What make people more violent, is actually your mind, the hatred, the revengeful heart. Maybe you have experienced something not good. For example, being bullied by the entire class. Maybe making songs of you, putting a ""kick my butt"" sign behind your back etc. This might have made you very unhappy. However, you are now mature enough. You have got the power to revenge. So once you got such message of wanting to revenge, you have an uncontrollable force, a force that is strong and tough, which ends up into violence. So there's the answer, violent video games aren't the roots of violence of people. BTW. Thanks for the sources you find. Anyway, could you send me some of your points if you were my side through this debate. Thanks."	CON	743
743	S7d79edc5-Abf8abf43	Violent video games should be banned because they lead to violent teens	Violent video games should be banned because they make students find joy in violence. Teenagers who play violent video games will be more likely to enjoy violence which could lead to harming others and themselves.	PRO	744
744	S5547489c-A611a6b6f	Should teens be able to buy violent video games and why	I think we should because people don't commit crimes because of video games. If they did then so does movies, news, shows, and everything. that is why i say people should be able to play video games.	PRO	745
745	Sc0010d7e-A210da14	THB that the government should regulate the amount of TV and video games children watch	I am defining children as people between the ages of 10 and 18 I contention 1: TV and video games distort reality. Contention 2: The majority of games children play are violent contention 3: it has been proven that tv and video games influence obesity rates	CON	746
746	Seaa4281f-A79ae168f	"In relation to video games, it is wrong to tag people as a ""nerd"" by what game they play."	"Thank you Pro for taking the time to participate in this debate. Good Luck, I quote: ""you are submitting yourself to anything that people may want to say to you or about you during, before, or even after the gameplay."" As I understand it, you are stating that by playing video games, you are subjecting yourself to these rude comments. However, with this statement you are neither proving your position nor disproving mine. Just because you are subjecting yourself to these comments by playing video games does not mean someone is justified in tagging you as a ""nerd"" or ""dork"". I quote: ""and I do not think that is right to say, but hey! America is a free country."" By saying you do not think it is right to say (correct me if I'm wrong), you proved my point in which these tags and names are wrong. Examples I'm going to list out a few games as examples: · World of Warcraft · Runescape · Dungeons and Dragons These games are usually referred to as the “nerd games”. However, if you look at the generic definition of “nerd”, and the contents of the game itself, the opinion should change dramatically. “Nerd is a term that refers to an intelligent but single-minded person obsessed with a nonsocial hobby or pursuit.” (http://en.wikipedia.org...) At this point I’d like to link you a video of someone who spends his time playing the game World of Warcraft: http://www.youtube.com... I apologize for any inappropriate words said during the video. (Video up top) Referring to the generic definition of a nerd, people usually describe them as non-social. However, if you listen to what the man in the video talks about, he describes a “fantasy world” in which players have fun together and have a social experience. These same concepts also go for a vast majority of video games. “Title” of the game I put the word title in quotation marks because I’m referring to it as the tag the game itself has. This tag is the typical person’s outlook on the game itself: “Someone who plays (tagged video game) is clearly a nerd because they spend so much time playing it”. The example I provided is one of the main comments I hear all the time when talking about these types of games. However, what they fail to realize is that they are being extremely hypocritical by saying so. For example: If I play CoD Black Ops hours on end, and begin talking about how someone who plays Runescape hours on end is a nerd, you are contradicting yourself. The person that play’s CoD Black Ops plays the exact same amount of game time as the person who plays Runescape does, so how does that make the Runescape player a nerd and not the CoD player? It’s because of the “title” the typical person give the game, which is morally wrong. ******* Thank you for taking time to participate in this debate."	CON	747
747	Sfb5d4752-A2c746690	Contender chooses topic (Video Games)	I'm pretty sure this is my 5th attempt at this, not once did I get a valid topic... 10,000 character limit BoP is ALWAYS shared 72 hours to argue 10 days voting period Open to anyone You must follow the rules, failure to do so will result in an automatic 7 point forfeit. RULES: 1. The topic must be about video games 2. The topic must be debatable 3. The debate must be a normal debate (no rap battles, tic tac toes, wars, etc.) 4. You must argue in round 1, after explaining the topic 5. Due to rule 4, you cannot argue in round 5 (don't care what you do, just don't argue or forfeit) 6. No trolling or spamming 7. You must take the pro side of the topic 8. No forfeit Good luck to my opponent!	CON	748
748	Sf501f7b2-A651f57aa	Video Games Costing Money	The reason that the games cost money for the $1000+ systems is because of the fact that the copanies that sell the games have to pay the people that help to create them. So by making them cost money they can offord to keep their employees and make more games.	PRO	749
749	S758ea5f9-Aab3c2cec	Are Video Games the main cause for Violent Juvenile Crimes	"While I have been using statistical information to back up my point, you have preceded to create petty arguments in which you have offered poor-to-very-little to the debate on whether video games are the main cause for violent juvenile crimes. There is enough evidence via the Internet, newspapers and various other sources to show that there is a correlation between the two; in 2012 a 13-year old boy jumped off a building's 24th floor and committed suicide after playing 'World of Warcraft' for 36 hours straight, a teenager went on a rampage and killed three men, two of them police officers, after playing Grand Theft Auto and a 17-year old boy killed his mother and wounded his father after they took Halo 3 away from his possession. There will also several cases of youth leaving their home, in 2013 a 15-year old ran away from his parents after his Xbox console was taken away - his dead body was found almost a month after. You may choose to argue that these unfortunate, tragic results are not directly linked to young people playing games, however Increasing reports of bullying can be partially attributed to the popularity of violent video games. The 2008 study Grand Theft Childhood reported that 60% of middle school boys who played at least one Mature-rated game hit or beat up someone, compared to 39% of boys that did not play Mature-rated games. As I stated in my opening, I fail to see how you could win this debate when you""ve offered nothing to the conversation as opposed to my use of statistical and factual information. A vote for me is a vote for freedom."	PRO	750
750	S96c86471-Accc53b82	Ok, seriously; VIDEO GAMES DON'T MAKE PEOPLE VIOLENT	"I thank my opponent for starting a great debate. I hope we can enjoy ourselves! ""And I play Mortal Kombat A LOT. That doesn't mean I'm gonna bring an SMG to school and start going on a massacre, ripping people's heads off left and right. "" You probably will not, but it will certainly increase the probability of such an event happening. ""2nd of all, what do you think the ESRB Rating system is for? Decoration? No! IT ACTUALLY MEANS SOMETHING! Mortal Kombat is rated M for Mature... Mature meaning 18 or Older. Nobody even fathomed people under aged children playing the bloodiest game in the USA at the time."" This is irrelevant. It has nothing to do with whether or not video games can increase violence. ""And Last but not least, Imagine the following: You come home from a tough day of school ready to rip someone's head off their shoulders. What do you do?"" Wowzers! You must play too many violent video games! --------- The facts: 1. Two studies in the April issue of the American Psychological Association's (APA) Journal of Personality and Social Psychology showed - both in the lab and actual life - that playing video games like doom and mortal combat can increase ""aggressive thoughts, feelings and behavior."" The studies also show that violent video games not only increase the aggressiveness of those with a pre-established proclivity, but they also temporarily increase the aggressive behavior of all types of participants (1). 2. A recent study using brain-scanning technology showed that participants who played violent video games experienced a stark increase in emotional arousal (identified with aggressive behavior) and a stark decrease in areas of the brain that support attention and self-control (2). Conclusion: The evidence is damning. Video games can indeed increase violent behavior. I look forward to my opponents response and adequate counter data. Sources - 1. http://www.apa.org... 2. http://www.msnbc.msn.com... http://mentalhealth.about.com..."	CON	751
751	Sc0010d7e-Abb9be523	THB that the government should regulate the amount of TV and video games children watch	"TV was invented in the early 1920""s and video games were developed in the early 1970""s but both have now become an invariable source of fun and entertainment for children. There is no denying that children love to watch TV and play video games. Some of these shows and games were for fun and educational, but throughout the years of technological advances, they have evolved to new levels creating controversy among society.The amount of children that stare at a TV screen for several hours a day has grown so profusely that it has been labeled an epidemic. An average child watches a total of 28 hours of television a week. The amount of time spent playing video games or watching TV, and the types of games/shows children watch/play will influence their behavior in a major way. By the time a child finishes high school he/she will have seen 8,000 TV deaths. Video games have the most negative psychological effects including: a decrease in social skills, increased aggressive thoughts, behaviors, and feelings and increased physiological arousal. Studies show that a family that has the TV on all the time usually speak 200 words an hour to their child but a family that does not regularly have the TV on speaks about 1000 words per hour. so not only have video games proven to be a complete waste of time but they also have proven to decrease the growth of a child. oh and thanks for understanding the misunderstanding about the pro and con"	CON	752
752	S5e625e1b-A5922394	Video Games Lack a Feel of 'Real Accomplishment	Haven't played that game. But a lot of linear video games are good, And are still video games, But in a way they're also similar to movies and books. Even if it's a choose your own adventure type book, Way the game Until Dawn is. Single player games can do an 'excellent job of telling a story or allowing you to work with the world in shaping it yourself. I recall reading once of some people who disliked the Mass Effect series because some of the choices were far reaching, And hard to tell at the moment you make it what the right choice was. But it was fun seeing your choices from the first to the third. Still, While fun, Single players to me often lack that feeling of real accomplishment, Which I might be confusing with simply being seen as valuable by a large group of people, While also being attainable in a unique way. . . By that I mean. . In a more real world perspective, I go from extremes of ambition. Either it'd only be worth effort if my effort achieved the greatest of pinnacles, Or if not. . . Meh, Might as well just focus on a slothful hedonistic life. Though it's unreasonable. I wonder what the largest D&D campaign a person might be able to hold? Never played in myself, But have enjoyed reading web comics about others playing it. Maybe if one was to use MUDS, A vast campaign could be developed that included thousands of players at once, If not more. I mention that because MUD seems the simplest version to use But if one had the manpower or system, Even advanced games could be used. Still my question to myself of accomplishment. . . Hm, Might just be me at the moment.	PRO	753
753	S5e625e1b-Afa7b2691	Video Games Lack a Feel of 'Real Accomplishment	"""It's all in the game"". I suppose it is, But is it really that black and white? I've met life long friends online that I'm very glad to have and call my friends and grateful to theirs. One of them I met and I've stayed friends with for 5 years just because I didn't click once and spared his virtual life. If i did, Well I wouldn't have done a lot of things or met a lot of great people. It's experiences like those that I feel a sense of ""wow that was cool, Video games are a kinda neat way to connect and socialize and such"". when I think about the phrase ""how much did I matter"" I can take it at face value and tell you ""well I did X for my team and we won"" or ""I found X mechanic and now its a strategy used by most other users"". But when I think about ""how much or do I matter? "" I find that you don't necessarily have to. Video games are just another form of entertainment but were able to interact with it. When I watch a movie and it ends, I don't think ""Well I don't feel accomplished"" maybe unfulfilled, Yes. But that's okay because you don't really have to. Again, Video games are a form of entertainment. Some people enjoy them, Some people don't. They don't need to give you your purpose in life. Although maybe it can (pros, Streamers, Game design, Critics etc. ). If a game were to concretely interact with the real world that would be a neat thing. But it would be very hard, Because surely people would exploit it in some way. People already exploit games that don't have anything to do with the real world but are getting real world assets out of them. And for the last sentence I'm positive people have bought property in-game for hundreds of thousands of real dollars some even mortgaging their real houses to do so (which is insane to me but people have done it). Which made them thousands per year some paying more than a lot of jobs today. The game was Entropia. Look up ""Jon neverdie Jacobs"" it's pretty funny and ridiculous."	CON	754
754	Sf2f51256-A866c4e77	Video games cause more harm than good	Thank you, ThaAwesome1. Good luck to you also. Video games do more harm to society then they do good for society. Unimaginable situations- Video games put their users into unimaginable situations that often represent true moral and philosophical dilemmas but keep their audience detached from the consequences of the dilemmas. If a person was in a situation where aliens were trying to destroy their planet, maybe they would actually put on a bionic suit, pick up a gun, and fight the aliens to victory or death, we don’t know. Perhaps from playing a video game such as Halo, they would be more likely to perform in the same manner as Master Chief. But it stands to reason that if a person were more likely to become enlisted in the Navy after playing this game, wouldn’t the same likely hood apply to the people who play Grand-theft auto to become a criminal. Is a person who plays Need for Speed more likely to become a street racer than someone who has never heard of the game? Lifestyle Advertising--The U.S. Navy endorses games like Halo because it is advertisement that encourages youngsters to become recruits. Every game is an advertisement for the lifestyle it portrays. Even if every GTA player does not become a criminal, their mind is being programmed during continued game play to condone things like drug use, sex trade, police murdering, reckless driving, car stealing, car bombing, etc. And if you don’t do it right the first time, you get a second chance, and as many chances as you need until you perform the task to the game makers satisfaction. Encourages Lethargy— The mind can process images faster than the body can react, but the mind does process every image it sees. The events that occur in the game are indistinguishable to the mind from actual events. This is proven by gamers claiming to have actually completed the tasks in the game. The mind tells the body that it needs the same amount of calorie intake to perform the virtual task as it would to perform the actual task. But the body isn’t putting out the same amount of energy needed to perform the actual task. The body while playing the video game is in a relaxed state exhausting a little more energy than it takes to sleep. Artificial Achievements – Games are riddled with artificial achievements, but the reality is that a disk goes in to console and come out the same disk. All the points and unlocks mean nothing to anyone else except the gamer. Why should they? Points are intangible and have no function outside of the game. They are locked away in a corruptible save file waiting patiently to be reawakened the next time the player chooses to access them. That is not the case in real life. Achievements come from labor and repetition and there is no one standing over you waiting to congratulate you for every little thing that happens. Real life achievements build on themselves and never leave, they apply to you all the time even if you switch careers. Achievements and points from one game do not carry over to another. If some people spent the same amount of time manipulating the real world as they did video games, we would have thousands of musicians instead of Rock Band, and farmers instead of Farmville, and city or park developers instead of Roller Coaster Tycoon and the like. Praise is like a drug, we yearn for it and we are willing to do whatever it takes to get it. It certainly is gratifying to get that praise when all it takes is a few moments kicked back on the couch. Unusable skills -- Why do the real thing when you can play the video game. Economically it makes sense, I don’t know the exact cost of the following things but I know buying the video game pretend version is a lot cheaper than snowboarding, motocross riding, race car driving, and going to war. But is the gamer actually getting the benefit of a knowing how to do the things they are gaming? No, they aren’t. It takes a lot of stamina, strength, and training to pull of the stunts performed in video games. This is where the mental degradation from video games comes into play. Not only are many of the stunts impossible for the imperial athletes, but all of the stunts are impossible for the gamer who may accomplish these feats with nothing more than a flick of the wrist, or thumb. The continued use of video games trains the minds to believe the only way to accomplish the given tasks are through the video game. Impaired Social Interactions – Life is real easy when others move instantly in your control. If you are person who doesn’t believe the tasks are actually being performed by you, but rather a proxy avatar, a true mental restriction has taken place. It is the same as saying the words of a dummy are not the words of the ventriloquist who operates it. The results between the dummy and the avatar are the same. If you say crawl, the avatar crawls. If you say kill, the avatar kills. There is no task (within the confines of the game) that your avatar will not do. More importantly, they will never question your decision making skills even if it means death. The avatar will never complain as humans do, and you don’t have to care about avatar feelings. You never have to check up on NPCs to see if they did the tasks you asked them to do. They just come back later and tell you whatever the game makers predetermined them to tell you. You don’t even get to decide what you say back to them. There is no yelling or dismissal of friendship, and if you do get to choose a response, the responses are limited. Yelling at a TV, or controller, or plant, or whatever else you take your frustrations out on do not affect the game play in the slightest. Try yelling another human, the responses change depending on your relationship with each other and combined personalities. These are my initial points what are yours.	PRO	755
755	S9b9e68e4-A407c4582	Playing Video Games are greater in benefits than reading Fiction Books.	"The hardware is standard. Here's one half of a phone conversation I heard this week at GameStop: ""Okay, well,Little Big Planet is a PS3-only title, so you probably don't want to purchase that if he has an Xbox."" But if my mom buys a book for me for Christmas, she doesn't have to worry about whether I have an Xbox or a PS3 or the right graphics card or enough RAM. As long as I have a functioning set of eyes and can read at a 6th grade level, I'm good to go with 90% of the books out there. (Did you catch that back-handed slap at the publishing industry? Ok, good.) 2. Books are always backwards-compatible. Man I loved Burnout 3: Takedown. There was nothing more fun than pointing your Dominator muscle car into an oncoming lane of traffic and launching off the overpass in an explosive rain of fiery destruction. That game was super fun. Super fun until I got a PS3. One of the newer, gimped PS3's that wouldn't play Burnout 3. That's cool, I'll just buy Burnout Paradise. What's sixty bucks, right? Oh, except Burnout Paradise took everything that was fun about the franchise, neutered it, and overstuffed the game in favor of an ""open"" world with a lot of wrong turns and terrible timed events. Compared to Burnout 3, Burnout Paradise sucks. You know what's great? When I pick up my dog-eared copy of Breakfast of Champions - the one I bought in 1989, it's still just as fun and interesting to read as it was back then. 3. Better hardware specs. Your PS3 is capable of approximately 2,018 Gigaflops (Floating Point Operations perSecond.) Your brain runs roughly 10 times faster. Advantage: Books. Put another way, the graphics in video games are limited by memory, available processing power, and resolution of the target display. In a book, the chicks are literally as hot as you can imagine. 4. No tutorials. Imagine if every book started like this: ""Welcome to Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone. This book is formatted for Western English readers. Begin reading at the upper left of the page and continue scanning your eyes to the right until you come to the end of a line. Look down one row of type, andresume reading across to end of the row. Let's try it: Mr. and Mrs. Dursley, of number four, Privet Drive, were proud to say that they were normal, thank you very much. They were the last people you'd expect to be involved in anything strange or mysterious, because they just didn't hold with such nonsense. ""Did you successfully read the two sentences? Good! You're almost ready to begin enjoying this book. One last step: Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone is divided intopages. Pages are denoted by a sudden stoppage of paper. When you reach the end of a page, continue reading by grasping the right-hand page with your right thumb and forefingerand manually flipping it the left. This move is called a turn and once you master it, the sentence from the previous page will continue seamlessly."" Seems ridiculous, right? But I can't tell you how many games I've played where I have to spend 10 minutes learning how to pick up a box or read a piece of paper. 5. No load screens. When I want to start a book, I don't have to watch some lame, jittery animation that's filled with inane ""tips"" like ""Hiding under cover for a while will restore your shield and health."" Eyes + book = READING! PS3 + game disc = BATHROOM BREAK! 6. No save points or timed missions. GRAVITY'S RAINBOW [TIME'S UP - MISSION FAILED.] YOU HAD TEN MINUTES TO FINISH EPISODE 31 OF ""IN THE ZONE."" DO YOU WISH TO [Q]UIT OR [L]OAD NOVEL FROM THE BEGINNING? Note to video game developers: In a book, every page is a save point. Take a lesson and quit padding out your expected play time. 7. Video games are at the bottom of the entertainment food chain. Here's something I like to call The Inverse Laws of Entertainment: Good book = crappy movie. Good movie = crappy video game. Good video game = years of ""development talks,"" reams of lame/disturbing fan fiction, or -- in the worst possible scenario -- ""An Uwe Boll production."" Let's face facts people, the bar was set with E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial (the movie-to-video game conversion they literally had to bury in a landfill) and it has not gone up much from there. 8. Variety. Video games come in three basic genres: Shooter. Platformer. Incomprehensible Japanese RPG. Books, on the other hand, are not solely targeted to appeal to 15 year-old boys. Some, for instance, are targeted to appeal to 15 year-old girls. (Ha, publishing industry! IN YOUR FACE!) And, unlike a video game, if you buy an RPG book, you can actually ROLE-PLAY. Like, have an interesting, nuanced conversation with that orc mercenary before you get out your +3 Axe of Mighty Cleaving and whack him into finely-minced chunks. Believe it or not, there's more to role-playing than just Circle, Skip, Attack. And if you miss your beautiful, perplexing Japanese video games, the fine people who invented books have this thing called manga and not only is it just as incomprehensible, but it's dirtier than you'd expect. Just remember to start in the back. (If you just mumbled ""That's what she said"" please click away from my blog now and go back to your Halo: Reach Team Deathmatch. You are fired.) 9. Value. Your average paperback book: $6. Your average videogame: $60. If you complain that the time/value proposition of a video game is way higher because you can get more total hours of play from a video game than the time it takes to read ten books, I suggest you need to graduate to a better class of book, check out this thing called a LIBRARY, and stop playing so many games with scarce save points and narrowly-timed missions. A study was released this week that demonstrates that prolonged video game-play affects the brain. Professor Akio Mori, of Nihon University's College of Humanities and Sciences in Japan, measured the brain activity 240 subjects aged between 6 and 29. Mori measured beta waves, which indicate activity in the prefrontal lobe, and alpha waves, which often appear when the brain is resting. The prefrontal lobe is thought to be the center of emotion and creativity in the brain. Mori divided the brain activity of participants into four categories: normal, visual, half-videogame, and videogame. Normal subjects, who rarely played video games, were found to have much stronger beta waves than alpha waves. Little change was seen while these subjects did play video games. The half-video game group, which played video games for 1-3 hours 3-4 days a week, had roughly equal strength beta and alpha waves when not playing video games; but when they did play video games their beta waves fell below their alpha waves. The video game group, which played video games for 2-7 hours daily, showed nearly zero beta activity all the time, even when they were not playing video games. This means there was little to no activity in their prefrontal lobes. These subjects reported being easily angered, having difficulty concentrating, and having trouble socializing. The visual group, comprised of people who largely engage in visual stimulation such as television, was found to easily develop symptoms similar to the video game group. Mori says that the only active areas in the brain during video game play are the sight and motion areas. He notes that the video games he observed “stir up tension and a feeling of fear,” and that “this could have an effect on the autonomic nerves.” Mori's advice is: “During childhood, playing outside with friends, not videogames, is the best option.” The study will be presented here in the U.S. in the fall at a meeting of the Society for Neuroscience. In conclusion I think that we should ban video games and read books."	CON	756
756	S1f98e1f8-Af5e04ad4	playing sports is way better than sitting at home and playing video games	"Your most recent argument is a futile attempt to blame all of societies issues upon violent video games which simply is not true. Statistically speaking violence in people who play and do not play violent video games are the same hence violent games cannot be the attributing factor in violent behavior. This scapegoating is an simple attempt to put all of the blame of violent acts merely upon games that people play but let me tell you one thing what about all of the other contributing factors such as how hey are treated by others, how they are raised, and even medical history upon the family could shed some light upon the source of violent behaviors. Plus with your argument we would also have to say that the News is bad for the violence depicted as well as many textbooks explaining human history. Also I would like to point out the fact tat if you want to be an effective killer a certain amount of physical fitness is required (this will tie into my next paragraph). There is also a matter of parents ability to control what types of games their children play but more on this later. http://www.geek.com... http://www.theregister.co.uk... http://www.spiritus-temporis.com... http://usmilitary.about.com... http://www.military.com... http://www.esrb.org... To blame obesity entirely upon video games is also an example of scapegoating for you have to account for other lifestyle factors as well such as: the persons general diet, stress levels, family history, and type of job you also need to include the parental figures as well for they often times play a major role in a persons lifestyle. To say that an fat person will likely grow up and kill a bunch of people is also a farce due to the fact an effective killing machine is an fit killing machine. Also think of how many fat people that are considered to be cool and highly respected in the modern culture of the U.S.A.. Also remember that a person cannot simply be judged by their appearance for many fit people are bad people in accordance to their behavior (take Hitler for instance he was fit physically and had no video games yet committed a great atrocity against mankind). http://www.cdc.gov... http://www.womenfitness.net... http://blog.toptentopten.com... http://www.bbwsanctuary.com... http://listverse.com... http://listverse.com... http://usmilitary.about.com... The level of physical fitness one has does not make them any better or worse when it comes to terms of behavior and health. Many physically fit people have committed mass murders and never had a video game to show them these behaviors. Since the birth of competing civilizations man has raped, pillaged, and slaughtered his neighbors and in our 5000 year history of having civilization we have only seen video games appear about 52 years ago so how does your argument stand up that video games are in essence ""the seed"" of violence in today's society. I would also like to point out the fact that you can be fat and healthy so it is pointless to say that only the physically fit are the only people who are healthy. I would also like to point out that simply being physically fit does not mean you are any healthier for often times physically fit people suffer from medical ailments. http://www.independent.co.uk... http://www.ecotao.com... http://www.bnl.gov... http://www.serge411.com... http://www.time.com... http://helpguide.org... http://www.newsweek.com... http://content.bandzoogle.com... http://www.independent.co.uk... I say that video games are not the major problem it is the lack of people wanting to look at other key factors in the health of citizens of the U.S.A.. We must stop scapegoating and take initiative of the true basis of health and behavior problems in our great nation. http://www.helium.com... http://www.suite101.com... http://remember.org... http://www.actionbioscience.org... http://helpguide.org... http://www.sixwise.com... http://www.womenshealth.gov... http://www.health.ny.gov... http://www.opposingviews.com..."	CON	757
757	Saf4a656-Aed90c213	Resolved: Video Games should not have sequels as a matter of principle	Thanks to my opponent for his response. I stand to show why video games should not have sequels on principle. P1: Call of Doody (Oh you know I had to) Oh c'mon. You knew it was coming. Just like you knew that COD: Black Ops 2 (not so affectionately knowns as BLOPS2) was coming this year, COD: Ghosts is coming next year, and COD: Something or Other is coming the year after. Call of Duty, the highest grossing video game franchise ever, is a perfect example of why it is wrong to have video game sequels. It is the fat, lazy, cash cow that rakes in its profit from adolescent, testosterone-driven, males. It hardly changes every year, but still manages to tweak just enough to convince its mindless consumers that it is a brand new game. Games like COD give video games a bad name. They are what parents think of when they hear video games, just a mindless, cruel, profane shooter that wastes children's time and money. It not only ruins the reputation (and dating chances) of many gamers, but the industry as a whole. P2: Lack of imagination leads to stagnation New IP is needed in the gaming industry for it to survive. Every year, we've been seeing a decline in video game sales. [1] Meanwhile, we've also seen a rise in the trend of sequels. [2] Coincidence? I think not! An article by www.mcvuk.com[3] outlines how this lack of IP will eventually lead to the death of video games if we are not careful. It states how we trick ourselves, as gamers. We think that these sequels that put up such big numbers are helping grow the gaming industry, when really it is in decline. These rehashes of games do little more than to slow the eventual bleeding out. The answer is obvious, we need new IP. Video game developers should make it their principle not to create sequels. Well, that ends my short and sweet R2. I believe that, while my opponent will undoubtedly come back at me with some well-spoken points, but I beleive that these points alone should be enough to make my case for now. A side note to my opponent. I'd ask that you not post your reply until Friday, seeing as I'll be busy through Saturday and this would give me the most time to respond. If this doesn't work for you, that's fine. I'll make do. But your support is appreciated! Sources: 1. http://www.zacks.com...; 2. http://www.complex.com... 3. http://www.mcvuk.com...	PRO	758
758	Seaa4281f-Aca35bab9	"In relation to video games, it is wrong to tag people as a ""nerd"" by what game they play."	"For this debate I would like to know exactly what you mean when you say, ""it is wrong to tag people as 'nerd' by what game they play."" I do not know if you mean just judging the person with your thoughts and words or literally tagging them online as a nerd. In my opinion some could say that people are not only judged by the games they play and called nerds, but games are judged by the people who play them and the games could be known as nerdy games. UrbanDictionary.com gives their own definition of a game nerd. Here is a part of it: ""A person who plays video games A LOT."" Now I do not know about you, but if someone told me I was someone who played video games a lot, I do not know if I would be that offended. Now going back to what I said earlier about how I think that some games are judged by the people that play them. If lots of people play a certain video game a lot, they could be considered ""game nerds"" from the definition we got of a game nerd from UrbanDictionary.com. Not only are the people being tagged as game nerds, but the game (since it is is popular), is being known as a ""nerdy game"". Using the examples of the games you gave me earlier that you said were ""usually considered as the 'nerd games'"", I would like to point out how these are pretty popular games (World of Warcraft, Runescape, Dungeons and Dragons). Now since these are popular games and people play them a lot, they are considered nerd games and the people who play them a lot are considered ""game nerds"" from the previous definition. Therefore not only are these people considered ""game nerds"", but could also be considered ""nerds"" from other gamers and people who know that those games are popular. Thank you for listening to my arguments. :)"	PRO	759
759	S6a618e4b-A39e8708d	Video Games Are Causing Violence In Children	"Thank you Pro and your response. I will go over my opponents case and rebuttal. 1. My opponent has failed to address my second and third contention, therefore due to that , we are going to keep these flowing through as correlation does not prove causation is the truth, and nothing but the truth, therefor since my opponent has failed to do so, all of his/her studies are false. And since my 3rd contention was not attacked we are going to keep them all together. That means that my opponents arguments (as of right now) are completely invalid. And my opponents evidence from procon.org actually benefits me as well as his evidence directly contradicts his statements, and until he provides another piece of evidence we are just going to flow that over to my side. And my opponent addressed my first contention throughout his rebuttal and in his closing statement, he said ""If a parents buys a violent game for a child, this child will be influenced by THAT GAME. Unless the parents are teaching them that its ok to enflict harm on other people. (Which we all know that hardley ever happens) This game is what made/contributed to making that kid commit violence. Not the parents buying the game."" Actually this is false, as seeing he said that the child is being influenced, the parent is buying that game and placing that influence on the child. He even agreed that parents are teaching them right from wrong and he expects someone not to blame them. It is the parents fault as they are implementing the influence on the child to commit small acts of violence or bullying. If a parent would just say something, we wouldn't be having this discussion. Also my opponent brought up call of duty and how a kid would just go up and hit a kid because they did it in a game, I ask for my opponent to provide a piece of evidence that DIRECTLY LINKS that kids feel that way because of violent video games or video games in general. And then my opponent brought up the Sandy Hook Shooter had impaired mental disability, as this is completely true, I wish for my opponent to provide another piece of evidence that EXPLICITLY SAYS that due to the shooters lack of judgement, seperating from the real world from the virtual world, caused the atrocity that day. Voters, my case so far flows through and stands strong as my opponent is contradicting himself and has left my case basically untouched except for my first contention. Therefor I negate."	CON	760
760	Sbe0e3c1e-A14839efe	should people under 18 be able to play violent video games	Ok, I played/play violent video games now. And I have since I was young. I will admit that I was really violent, but I got over that in around 2 years, I still play violent video games(pubG, COD, Gears Of War, etc.) but I am a much less violent person, in fact, I hate when I see violence where I go. (If you don't think kids should play violent video games, please join this debate, however, if you are easily angered, I suggest you look elsewhere. Please keep your arguments short and to the point)	PRO	761
761	S739f2cb1-A20ab5009	Video Games are a primary source of violence	"Pro has conceded and claimed forfeiture throughout the rest of the debate;therefore, the winner of this debate is obvious here. But, I'm not going to sit here. I still haven't even provided all of the professional evidence that I know that exist. I will continue my rebuts in Round 4. Countering: ""Violence and Aggression are closely akin"" I can forsee Pro's struggle through this debate, as most of his rebuts and arguments are based off of studies that either shows insignificant results, have been debunked/outdated by new and recent studies, or it's not even related to video games. For example, Pro cites a website that shows a procedure called EEG (ElectroEncephaloGram). Now, this study is claimed by Pro that EEG scans shows levels of aggression and impulsivity. But, according to Pro's own and ONLY cited source, EEG is ""used to evaluate several types of BRAIN DISORDERS. Aggression does not mean you have a mental disorder. We have all felt aggression before. It does not take a genius scientist, or a 3-year psychological study to figure that out. It's just common sense. About my father, I'm using him as a source to contradict your affirmations. Of course, Pro completely overlooked my other points that clearly disproves his rebuts. My other sources are reliable sources that completely throws your assertions off. Just because I'm using YouTube videos as a source, that doesn't mean that it is not reliable. That's just another one of Pro's biased affirms. Especially, if you have tons and tons of videos who say the EXACT SAME THING ON THE EXACT SAME TOPIC, you can obviously see a pattern here. Pro states that all of his cases are linked together when obviously they aren't. 1. Just because they said that these actions can cause them to have violent behavior, doesn't mean it's long-term. You see, you're looking at the words, ""behavior"" and ""personality."" Aggression does sometimes lead to violence, but that is not the case for EVERYONE. People can control their emotions, some people can't. In terms of video game aggression, aggression shown in video games are FOR THE MOMENT like I said before. Do you remember that time that you got so angry after playing Call of Duty, that you were angry for 15 days? Do you remember that time that you absolutely raged at your console/PC for 10 hours? Yes, that doesn't seem right doesn't it? The only time someone is able to be that angry for that long is if they can't control their anger and/or if they have some sort of MENTAL ILLNESS. This goes back to me talking about mental instability doesn't it? 2. I've clearly said that Bandura's study is based on children of 3-6 YEARS OLD. Doesn't anyone see that using 3-6 year old children is not a valid to study to use against a community that mostly consist of ages of 12+? 3-6 year olds are in the early stage of comprehending language and they are unable to cause an extreme level of violence unless taught to them. This study that you use uses dolls to see if children imitates aggression. Gamers don't IMITATE AGGRESSION. That aggression comes from the player him or herself. So, that in itself, clearly falsifies the validity of your study to this debate topic. Also, the study of Bandura WAS CONDUCTED IN 1961. Video games were created back in the 70's by Physicist William Higinbotham. How can you conduct a study upon something that didn't even exist at that time period? 3. I already disproved #3. Okay, YouTube celebrities? Really? The YouTube channels that I've cited HAVE AN AVERAGE SUBSCRIBER COUNT OF 123,404 subscribers. 123,000 subscribers would be considered average in the YouTube community, probably below average by some. Yes, I actually calculated that with my super awesome TI-84 Plus C Silver Edition. Thank you very much. (I've discovered that the links are not working. They just go to the website itself which is odd. I'll try to reclarify the links again later.) Pro is saying that I have to use evidence for every single rebut I state, otherwise, it is not a contention, yet he hasn't even done that himself for some of his arguments; common sense can be most definitely used as evidence. Evidence is not just described by statistical facts posted by a website you found on the internet. So, that argument is self-defeating. Also, Pro has clearly used the 2 terms, ""Autism"" and ""Ageism"" imprecisely. He's saying that just because I'm contradicting the study based on 3-6 year olds, I'm practicing Ageism....... I don't need to explain how that is totally erreneous and has the word, ""fallacy"" written all over it. Autism is ""a mental condition, present from early childhood, characterized by difficulty in communicating and forming relationships with other people and in using language and abstract concepts."" IQ test scores does not measure these variables. Plus, due to your usage of the word, ""may"", you're basing your affirm off of hypothetics instead of imitating a real-life scenario. 12 years is not early childhood. 12 years is considered the early stage of being a teenager according to this website. http://www.cdc.gov... (Maybe, It'll work if I don't put the links in parentheses) Pro says that I resort to Semantics which, I'm using the most common definition of words and using general common sense. Also, I'm using the recent studies. So, this statement you made does two things. It makes you sound even more conceded. Two, it goes against what you refuted again which was assertions without evidence isn't a contention. You did not provide any evidence, so AGAIN, this assertion is self-defeating. Man, I'm running out. Effects of video games on violence are psychologically proven Again, Pro neglects my other points that I've made and just come down to the conclusion that neither his case or my mine is proven, YET HE SAID THAT HIS CASE SOLID AND AFFIRMED FROM PREVIOUS ROUNDS. Another assertion controverted and self-defeated. That just comes to show that he admits defeat beside the fact that he claims forfeiture. Finally, on to my new case that I'm about to present. (Mind you, do not count this as an argument as this case contradicts Pro's sources of studies.) Lawrence Kutner and Cheryl K. Olson, co-writers of a book named, ""Grand Theft Childhood"", states that there is no link between aggression and violent video games.The book consists of a study that ""was funded 1.5 million dollars from the United States Department of Justice and studies on teenagers from real families in real situation."" Of course, in the source material, they discuss about violence declining similar to like I affirmed in previous rounds. This is the MOST IN-DEPTH STUDY EVER DONE. So, sit back, go grab some popcorn, and watch me bury these false claims that the politicians keep spewing out. On Page 7, you can see that these authors expose the fallacy of the Anderson and Bushman case by saying, ""That logic is highly strained. It doesn’t differentiate between aggression and violence. It assumes that the subjects in these experiments—usually college students who participate to earn some spending money or to get extra credit for a class--cannot tell fantasy from reality, and don’t know that ""punishing"" a person with a mild electric shock or a 9mm pistol will lead to different outcomes.""""Teenage murderers and rapists may have played Mature-rated video games but, as you'll see in Chapter 4, so have most of the law-abiding boys on your local middle-school soccer team."" (Pg. 8) ""Criminals are also much more likely to have past exposure to other factors, such as poverty, alcoholism, family violence or parental neglect, that are known contributors to violent behavior."" (Pg. 8) ""Some researchers use “aggression” and “violence” almost interchangeably, implying that one inevitably leads to the other. That’s simply not true. A common definition of aggression as used by psychologists is, “behavior leading to self-assertion; it may arise from innate drives and/or a response to frustration, and may be manifested by destructive and attacking behavior, by hostility and obstructionism, or by self expressive drive to mastery.”25 As you can see, some behaviors can be aggressive but not violent."" (Pg. 15) The authors also touch on Bandura's case and says, ""One problem with this study is that there's not much you can do with a big inflatable Bobo doll other than punch it and watch it bounce back!"" (Pg. 15) Most people outside of research associate aggression with physically trying to hurt someone. Whether the noise blast corresponds with anything like that is very debatable. My guess is that it's actually a better measure of competitiveness, which is right in the name: the Taylor Competitive Reaction Time test. In my opinion, it's a far cry from beating someone to death, or even spanking or slapping someone, because it's not that aversive. (This quote was from Mr. Ferguson refuting the aggression studies.) (Pg. 16) ""According to the Surgeon General's 2001 report on youth violence,28 most children who are aggressive or engage in antisocial behavior do not grow up to be violent adolescents or adults—and most violent adolescents were not notably aggressive as children."" (Pg. 17) ""The results demonstrated that some people increase, some decrease and the majority saw no change in anger ratings. Unlike past research, we also demonstrate that these changes are mediated by the player’s feelings immediately prior to game play and a labile temperament—one predisposed to aggression….29"" (Pg. 17) Over and over again. You can go read it yourself that is if you even feel like reading it. http://www.grandtheftchildhood.com... I will post the links to sources that I can't get to in the comment section. It's late, I'm kind of tired, and I'm nearly out of characters again. Don't you see that these claims that video games cause violence is fallacious, absurd, and just simply doesn't make any sense?"	CON	762
762	Sbaa6345c-A22b92690	Violent Video Games Lead to Real Violence (First Debate)	"I feel that just because a video game have the ability to glamorize illegal things (such as using and selling drugs, speeding cars, and murder) does not mean that people who play these games will actually do illegal things. If people are influenced by taking drugs, running red lights, or being violent in anyway because they did it on a video game then there is something else driving that person to do it. No moral and mentally healthy person would go kill people for fun due to a video game. No one wants to sell drugs due to it ""looking fun"". No one wants to get into a fist fight because ""why not"". No one wants to get police to chase them in a speeding car for the hell of it. There are definable other aspects in said persons life that would lead them to that. I think it is quite clear that people get desensitized to violence in general due to video games and movies, however that does not mean people are going to be violent. Desensitization of violence doesn't necessary mean you will be a violent person, but will not be mentally affected by it if you see it. On a personal note, I have been playing video games ever since I could remember with games like Pokemon, and Runescape. To this day, I am still a big gamer and have played most mainstream games. When I saw the Deadpool movie this weekend (extremely graphic), I did not freak out at the crazy amount of violence. I would say I'm desensitized to most violence, but I'm also basically a pacifist and never really hit anyone or got into a fight. I acknowledge this is my situation, but I wasn't raised around violence. I never really saw a real fist fight. Real violence wasn't around me, so that's probably why I'm a pacifist. But that is kind of my point, it's individual experiences that might make people violent, not from a role-playing game on a television. From my perspective anyone who plays violent games with a relatively healthy mind knows that these games are fake. Someone who is violent probably did not get it from watching fake scenarios of violence, like in movies or video games because it is clear it is fake. There is no urge (from a mentally healthy person at least) to go and try this in real life. I just don't feel that anyone who is a normal human being would take something from ""Grand Theft Auto"" and go steal cars, kill police, and punch hookers. I just don't see it happening. Again I do see the desensitization of violence, but I don't see it causing extra violence in stable teenagers (or anyone for that matter). I keep saying ""stable"" and ""mentally healthy"" because if someone has a mental problem they might do something crazy from an idea a video game gave them, but that's not exclusive to video games. (I hope this all makes sense)"	CON	763
763	S1f98e1f8-Adf708839	playing sports is way better than sitting at home and playing video games	first off i would like to say i do agree with you on some facts. like first off i agree that it is ok for disabled people to play video games because what eles could they do around the house. but i am talking about all of the fat over wieght kids that all they do is play video games. that is horrible for little kids. it is very unhealthy and it is killing them. there are too many fat people in the usa. it is ok to play video games sometimes but you should be more prone to be more active and so you have a higher energy levle and you can do things. Second i would like to point out that the reasoning for more violence in the usa is for all of those fat kids (wich they got that way from playing too much video games) who got picked on all there started to play the new gta (grand theft auto) games then growing up and shooting up schools and such.http://www.msnbc.msn.com... they end up thinking that the kind of stuff you can do in those kinds of games are ok to do. they end up going to jail and becoming losers. all i am saying is that there is more of a negative effect on people who play too much games. if you get out there and become more active you would essentually become a much better person.	PRO	764
764	S9b9e68e4-Afe9076ea	Playing Video Games are greater in benefits than reading Fiction Books.	"This is going to be a rather disappointing debate, Con has gone outside the bounds of the resolution, as stated in R1 Rezamee, I state ""Furthermore, when I say 'benefit' I am complying to which has better psychological benefits and which provides more entertainment."" So Cons arguments, one through six, are irrelevant and for the good of the voter I will explain why each is irrelevant to the resolution; however, Cons arguments 7, 8, 9 are relevant. First thing is first, the reason I made the statement, as mentioned above, is to prevent people making arguments on how video games are bad for you (hence the phrase ""which is more beneficial"" and/or making 'duh' arguments. For example ""Fiction books are better because you can ""load"" a book faster than you can load a game"" arguments such as these have and should of been prevented if Con read my paragraph in round one. Starting with Cons first argument, he basically explains how (fiction) books are easier to access, this has nothing to do with the psychological benefits of either the book or the video game. Argument 2 Con, he describes books having better backwards compatibility, this obviously has nothing to do with the brain. Cons 3A, he, in summary, states how a brains processing power is way better than a machine's, this is true. But he fails to explain how this correlates to the brain benefiting from reading a book or how the brain doesn't benefit from playing a game, if Con knew what he was arguing, he could of used an argument on how reading interesting books can increase your lexile level. For me, argument four is almost relevant if Con would of went further into depth, but like the others it isn't. Why? Yet again, he doest explain any benefits that improve the brain. (Sigh) Another 'duh' argument, of course books don't have loading screens, and how does this correlate to any physiological benefits? Argument 6 ties into the reasoning behind argument 5. Now that I got all the out of topic arguments shot down we can begin a real debate. Note* As I was reading Cons points I feel as if he thought this would be far from a serious debate. I was rather entertained by the points he made, not kidding, they were true and funny, sadly they do not fit within the agreed upon terms. Now Con has pointed out that video games have less variety than a the field of fiction literature. This is simply untrue, video games in fact might have even more genres then whole of fictional books. Video games come in several categories and those categories can split into further subcategories. You have options to play a strategy game, a first person shooter, a massive multiplayer online, a role playing game, a horror game, a adventure game, etc ( I could go one for a while). Now what's amazing is that those can be split into further groups or each genre can mix. For example, lets take the game Minecraft, it can be considered a role playing game, a MMO, and a adventure game (mods extend the variety). There are a plethora of games all with their own taste. Video Games do cost more, this is a fact, but most provide way more than the average 200 page book. If he were lets say a college level reader, you could most likely blast through a 200 page books in under 12 hours of total reading. A video game on the other hand will provide much more entertainment and it will do so in a longer time frame. Games like Skyrim can take days to ""complete"". when I read the Hunger Games (Book 1) it took me like 10 total hours of reading, the book was entertaining but the game provided much more. Also, most video games takes millions of dollars to complete, so a price tag of $60 dollars is quite a deal. These are the reasons I think a 60 dollar price is justified. Cons study is not within the resolution, we are talking about which is more beneficial, not which pacts a harder punch. Video games proves to be the forefront of mass entertainment, with the industry worth a hefty 91 billion dollars, it has surpassed Hollywood and sport entertainments and what's even more amazing is that its still growing at a rapid pace. As better machines get cheaper we could only see a rise of people participating in the gaming industry, which can be directly translated into people finding games to be entertaining and worth the time and money. Con also failed to reply to any of my arguments in round one. In summary, more than half of Cons arguments are invalid to the debate, video games are in huge variety, and the gaming industry proves that people find games entertaining."	PRO	765
765	Sf47d4ad1-A6beb506a	In general, violence in video games has not caused real-world violence.	Since my opponent has not defined one key word in this debate I shall. Violence is the use of physical force to harm someone or damage property. (http://www.merriam-webster.com...) Contention 1: Studies show they cause violence. We can see by this chart above that people believe that these violent video games cause violence. (http://yougov.co.uk...) Now you may ask me why does video games cause violence? The answer is simple. It's the media's effectiveness to market products and slogans to a younger audience causing them to practically do what the company wants them to do. Craig Anderson, Professor at Iowa St University lead a research of over 3,000 children and found that children who play violent video games for a short period of time during the week lead to permanent changes in the brain, causing them to become more violent towards other. (http://time.com...) They also found in a study in Singapore that when they did the same study with children between the ages of 8-17 that violence increases over a three year period. They hit, kick, and push a whole lot more. (http://www.foxnews.com...) In a 2008 study of Grand Theft Childhood, they found that 60% of Middle Schoolers that beat up someone up played at least 1 M rated game compared to the 39% of kids who did not. (Grand Theft Childhood: The Surprising Truth about Violent Video Games and What Parents Can Do, Apr) According to an FBI study done in 2000, they found a link between violent video games and school shootings. (http://videogames.procon.org...) Con also says that if sales are linked then why are they going down, but let me show you this graph here. Coincidence? I think not. How can we dwarf an entire continent in both game sales and homicide rates? I will hand things off to Pro once more.	CON	766
766	S631d457a-Aa8e58416	Modern video games are a superior storytelling medium to books, cinema, and the spoken word.	I have to argue that video games can't tell a story nearly as well as books or movies/shows. Although I do think that the interactivity of video games would make you more involved. Either way I'll be taking the position of Con in this debate. This is also one of my first debates, so I wish you luck! Lets begin!	CON	767
767	S4f2fe78e-Ae8368635	Video games make children More violent	Games don't make children more violent. If child is playing a violent video game and then does something to his classmate, What is similar to violent game he is playing. Game didn't to tell to hurt his classmate. The game CAN give a way to hurt someone, But doesn't make a child More violent, Because the child would hurt his/her classmate in the other ways. (There can be exceptions)	CON	768
768	Sd333ea9a-A9df97875	Video Games do more harm than good	My opponent has unfortunately forfieted. It is possible he is busy playing video games! Since this was 4 round debate, we still have at least one more round for debate - before we conclude in final round. I will extend all my arguments and wait for his response.	PRO	769
769	Sd333ea9a-A24dbd1b5	Video Games do more harm than good	I agree with my opponents view on what this debate is about. I would like to provide definitions; Good - according to context two definitions; morally right; behaving in a way that is morally right having a useful or helpful effect on somebody/something Harm - damage or injury that is caused by a person or an event *In this case event would be video games.* ------ I accept my opponents introduction. I will be favoring the side of Videos do more good than harm.	CON	770
770	S5fc2ae63-Ac67a7c8b	Violent Video Games have a Bad Influence on Teenagers	"As my opponent forfeited the previous round, I will present some new argyments My new argument is regarding the characters. In most violent video games, the character who you play as is almost always huge and unnaturally muscley (1) This is just showcasing the message that strong muscley men are superior to those who are not, more ""manly"" if you will, and this can make for poor self esteem in players who believe that their physique doesn't match up to the one shown as ""manly"" in the game. This can lead to teenagers using stereoids and similar physique enhancements to make themselves seem more manly, as subconciously they have grown up to beleive that ""real men"" are big, muscley killing machines. By absenting these absurd killing games, it will be one step closer to elliminating this unreal expectation boys have for themselves. 1. http://people.southwestern.edu..."	PRO	771
771	S1ac69d5c-A4fcc1742	Violent video games and school shootings are related	When you play a SUPER gorey game, one that actually makes you feel BAD for what you`re not even REALLY doing, do you plan on doing the same thing in real life? No. Why? because being that monster, even in a make-believe setting, still makes you feel guilty. So, the way I see it, violent video games don`t cause school shootings. Insanity does.	CON	772
772	Sa1ac5625-A6c7e90b5	Do Video Games Create Violence (Genius Hour)	Since your argument is that video games caused NO violence it is easy to prove you wrong. Most of gaming today is online, and alot of yelling, remote bashing, and violent actions occur when certain people play them. Ever hear of the term swatting? It's when one gamer calls the SWAT team on another gamer http://www.theblaze.com...	PRO	773
773	Sa1ac5625-Afbdadd7a	Do Video Games Create Violence (Genius Hour)	"What I meant by ""violence"" was children or adults who play video games becoming murderers, there is definitely violence when it comes to swatting but that it not the type I was referring to. I meant like people who play Call of Duty going out and reenacting what they just did in the game on real innocent people."	CON	774
774	S631d457a-A404664b0	Modern video games are a superior storytelling medium to books, cinema, and the spoken word.	"Resolved: Modern commercial video games are a superior storytelling medium to traditional books, cinema, and the spoken word. My Position: Pro Definitions: 1. ""video games"": This term is used in its traditionally understood context and, for purposes of this debate, refers to the electronic games that operate on the Playstation 3, Xbox 360, and PC. 2. ""superior storytelling medium"": The goals of a storytelling medium are below. My assertion is that video games accomplish these goals more effectively than the other listed mediums. to engage the user to convey a narrative structure to teach the user a moral or lesson to impart information to the user Rules: 1. Please avoid professional debate terminology. 2. Please avoid semantic arguments. 3. Issues of accessibility, cost, and resource requirements are irrelevant. The argument assumes that potential users have equal choice as to which medium to select. 4. Please understand that this is my first debate on this site and be willing to provide me with guidance if I violate any community standards or procedures during this debate. 5. The final round is for summation and no new arguments should be proposed. 6. I will bear the burden of proof."	PRO	775
775	S498856cd-A64986836	Video Games can Change you Life for the Better	I will begin this round with my personal opinion - and will not use any sources of evidence from other sites until the next rounds. As a gamer myself, I have found that playing games can improve my physical and mental awareness in real life situations. For example, as a fan of the video game FIFA, I discovered that playing football against people on-line and in the one player modes has had a positive result on my abilities, techniques and functionality in real life football. I discovered the execution of my long shots, through balls and dribbling and many other areas of the real life game had improved. Also, games like Last Of Us and the Uncharted series have enabled me to watch and learn the many ways i can physically do certain things and as a result my climbing and physical activities have improved in general. However, as they can change peoples lives for the better, I have to admit, health suffers due to a lack of exercise and socialising - even for me. Although I may have improved my football game, I didn't improve my fitness, and as a result I overestimated my abilities to last long for the full real life amateur level football game. I became very tired even as the 2nd half had just started 1 minute in. As a result, I could no longer run by the 55th minute, and was substituted. So fitness suffers as a result of a lack of exercise. Sitting down and playing video games may influence you to make the right desicions in real life situations, but you are not the computer generated character - never tired and always fit as a fiddle no matter what you throw at them. Another negative is the inability to go out and socialise face to face, at clubs or bars, and to meet new people in the real world. When attached to a certain game, constructive time can go out the window and be replaced with a never ending quest to complete a certain game, and more time could be spent on academic studies instead, bettering chances of future success in careers for many gamers.	CON	776
776	S13e67903-Af43d3cca	That Mario Shouldn't be in any more Video Games	Mario is a very popular game franchise( and Nintendo's mascot) which in the past few years has earned Nintendo millions in dollars, and so many people grew up around this character that if Nintendo announced that Mario would never be used again, they would probably be very mad and upset, and maybe even riot! Long story short, Mario is one of the best known video game characters out there. So many people out there have been a gamer since they were little, and for most people, Mario was one of there first games they played. That is why Mario should remain in games( and people normally don't use him in smash because they think so many other people use him, such as my brother, that they want someone people probably won't choose, such as Ike or Little Mac).	CON	777
777	S117d4c1a-A23117425	Violent video games really cause bad behavior in children.	"You know what I am saying.. BLAAAAAAAA!! You agree with me anyways smartness.. LOL 1) They would not have the excuse of ""the devil made me do it"" in the first place if there were no violent video games. 2) Damn it, you know what I am trying to say! 3) Kids do not have the mental power to control themselves. 4) You agree with me anyways. 100) Letting a child play violent video games is like someone letting a child watch a porno, or even a evidence tape taken at the scene of a murder. 1000) You agree with me anyways!!!! LOL Statistic sites: http://www.directhit.com... www.lionlamb.org/media_violence_video_games.htm (I am new at this, and I don't know if I am correctly linking sites.) This kids mom took away his world of war game (violent game)LOLOLOLOL!!!!! Proof it self, really funny though. http://www.youtube.com... Here is a video of a kid going crazy over a game not working properly. Just a little proof that video games it self has negative effects on children. http://www.youtube.com..."	PRO	778
778	S7d79edc5-Ae796a75a	Violent video games should be banned because they lead to violent teens	"Violant Video game should not be banned. 1.) There is no direct evidence of violent video games leading to antisocial behavior, like using guns A ten million dollar research project requested by president Obama showed no hard evidence that violent video games lead to antisocial behavior like using guns 2) Playing what type of video games we want is a common right that people use DAILY that the proposition is saying does harm Wouldn""t we then have to ban all other things that some do daily that supposedly cause harm. (We""re not saying it does, but say it does harm.)Wouldn""t we have to ban: Smoking; kills 443,600 per year, according to livestrong.com Dinner over 650 calories; livestrong.com says you should have 450- 625; at least 30,000 people die of obesity every year Showers over 25 minutes; wasting water is a huge problem All social networking sites; according to bullyingstatistics.com, over half of teens have been affected by cyberbullying. This is just naming a few... think of all the regulations we could have! 10? 20? 50? The gov. is basically saying if they pass this law that they can pass laws that infringe on everyday activities. 3) In a 2007 study, it was proven that violent video games helped kids to get their anger out. This helps kids express their angry thoughts in a game. 4) The video game industry is a huge industry. Call Of Duty sold more copies in its first day out than any film that year. If we bank them, people will lose jobs and money. Our economy would suffer a huge blow"	CON	779
779	Sfb5d4752-Ada499dff	Contender chooses topic (Video Games)	You're welcome, and I am enjoying this debate. Rebuttals and Arguments: (One from my first group) 3. Innovation I ran out of characters to say this, but Counter Strike was first released in 1999, and Cod was first introduced in 2003. I showed how they both had comparable graphics, but given the advances of four years difference, Cod was better. Then I showed how Cod had slowly advanced in graphics, but Counter Strike escalated, through just four games over fourteen years! Con states that both series do not innovate very much, but I disagree, as CS has gone from near 8bit graphics to beautiful rendering, as well as COD, but COD made so many games, that the changes leading to each are miniscule. ----------------------------------------------------------- More Rebuttals 1. Multiplayer Pro states that COD ghosts has a more appealing multiplayer because it is a console game, and known for its local multiplayer. CSGO has both features, where you can choose to play a local community match, which takes longer to load than a general match, but is still worth it if you want to play with people around your community. Pro also states that all you need to do is give your friends controllers, and have everyone convene at your own house to play, while CS requires everyone to have a computer, and you need a powerful machine to run CS. CS runs on Source, which does not specifically require much ram. Also, your friends do need to have a computer to play on, but you can still create games where just you and your friends can play together, without anyone else from the internet joining. Finally, Pro states that COD has some non-competitive game modes, while CS does not. CS and COD are both generally serious games, and are meant to be competitive. Both games have modes that are not super competitive, but all of them are to an extent. You are welcome to play either game as a non-competitive game, but it is not what most people do. And laslty, Pro states that the maps that are large, and fun because it gives a more immersive face to the game, but really, how annoying is it when your opponents are in the opposite corner of the map than you, and you can't see them? 2. Single Player Campaign Unfortunately, CS does not have a single player campaign, where COD does. If you only want to play the Campaign of a video game, COD is the obvious choice. If you are looking for a game with a great multiplayer environment, with minimal issues, CS is the choice. -------------------------------------------------------------- My only argument 1.Marketing/Business On CS, there are nearly infinite weapon camos that can be bought in the Steam Marketplace, for .04$ all the way to 400$! (anything more is sold outside of the game for other reasons i.e. system can't deal with 1k$ transactions). So essentially, if you are lucky when opening a crate that you may have gotten as a drop in-game one day, you could get a 35$ skin for a gun, and sell it on the marketplace, and go and buy Skyrim, or some other game for sale on Steam! So, by playing this game, you can make enough money to buy even MORE games! How great is that?!! By opening crates with keys (total of about 3$) you have a chance of getting a weapon worth .10$ to 1000$.	PRO	780
780	S126ee163-Ae1e26184	Competitive computer games should be the part of Olyimpics games.	Initially, To prevent misunderstanding lets define the questionable part of the motion. Competitive video gaming: Playing video games in the highest level (video games such as League of legends and StarCraft 2). To propose this topic, I am going to come up with three contentions: 1. The purpose of Olympics games 2. From the view of individuals 3. From the view of Olimpics Guarantee an event for sportsmen to match. Sport requires addiction, endurance,logic and team play, so does computer games. Therefore computer games completely can be matched with the values of Olympics. Most of us have already realized the fact that, competitive video gaming has a good reputation in our days. Millions of people watch different kind of tournaments by day to day. According to the recent statistics the viewers of the League of legends World finals were higher than the basketball games that were played at the same time. I do believe that, these facts clearly show how many additional spectator would visit the forthcoming games if this policy would set up. Obviously these viewers would be teenagers. I have known several youngsters, who do not really interested in Olympics games,since they cannot find a suitable sports for themselves. But video games would attract these children to attend Olympics games. Lastly, from the view of individuals this policy has no drawbacks. Because of the fact that, it is not a must to watch or visit video games, those people who don't like computer games would turn off the telly, others would watch and what is more buy tickets for the games. Lets move to the much more important part. From the view of Olympics. As I have already mentioned, games would attract more people, so Olympics could make more money from tickets, t-shirts etc. This change would show that, Olympics can keep step with our world. Computers, devices and gamers have wealthy sponsors ( Logitec, Allienware etc.) These companies would support Olympics games and it would mean more financial profit again.	PRO	781
781	S69bf66d1-A80646031	Anita Sarkeesian and Women in Video Games	"Unfortunately, it's simply a result of existance that every material thing in the universe becomes objectified by the human eye. It's a simple consequence of biology; and indeed, one that you already made. When you looked down the site page and saw this debate, for instance, your brain made a split-second decision on its own and discriminated towards this debate, making you click on it. Same thing happens if you're walking down the street and you see an attractive person; your brain has already decided that they are worth your time to look at, without your consent. Some would call that unfair, but its a reality. In addition, your argument that female characters are used to supplement the male hero is a pointless one; the argument can easily be flipped on its head and said that in any game where females outnumber males, that the males are only supplementary. This is universally true, and isn't a sign of sexism; characters that are lesser in some form, be it in strength, numbers or what-have-you, are supplementary to the protagonist by definition. It isn't a sign of any negative -ism, it's a consequence of being a secondary character. Nor is there anything wrong with being a secondary character; there are many great characters who weren't the protagonists in their respective stories. Also, as a personal fan of the Mass Effect franchise, you are grossly misrepresenting it. In every Mass Effect game, the player is given more than one option for romance, and it's not just treating sex as a prize to be won. Mass Effect prides itself on its immersion, and those romance options don't involve your characters ""hooking up"" just because they can; the romance subplots are about Shepard and your love interest falling in love. This only isn't the case in a few unique romances (Jacob in Mass Effect 2, for example), but that's made obsolete because continuing any romance through the trilogy results in those characters stating that they've fallen in love with Shepard. The game isn't treating sex as a prize, and only someone who is looking for an argument would draw that conclusion. Your statement, I'm sorry to say, is remarkably similar to one made on Fox News when the first Mass Effect was released, and Fox made the same strawman of saying ""this game is treating sex as a prize to be won"", among other things [1]. Most of your second paragraph is exactly the biggest problem with Anita's arguments; they're open to evisceration by Ockham's deadly Razor. For anyone reading this who doesn't know what the Razor is, it's a logical tool that states in a question of logic, the answer that makes the least amount of assumptions, or the least outrageous assumptions, should always be selected[2]. In this argument, you asserted that the gaming industry ""tries to appeal to the white, heterosexual male audience [is] evidence enough that females are portrayed the way they are to reinforce male sexual and self-image fantasies for male players."". In contrast, I'm asserting that game developers make their characters the way they do because they make characters they'd like to see, not because they're trying to appeal to any one particular group. What's more likely? That game developers, as gamers themselves, want to make characters that they think will appeal to them and their fanbase, or that they are actually making characters the way they do because they are discriminatory against women and want to appeal to only one part of their fanbase, which they think responds postively to this kind of treatment. This isn't a strawman, this is simple market logic; if you discriminate against someone, you are discriminatory by definition, and there'd be no reason for a profit-motivated industry to make characters the way they are if they didn't think that it would cause them to get more money. This is the Razor in action; yours makes a shaky assumption based on post-hoc evidence, and is subject to it. I hope you don't mind if I skip over most of the assertions in your next paragraph simply because it's not really relevant, although I will say that your Congress source, and by extension that entire argument that women are paid less, almost universally fails to take any factors into account. I've heard it repeated before, but all those kinds of observations do is look at median pay; it ignores any sort of nuance between the genders. The point I was trying to make in this paragraph is that despite her massive influx of money from her kickstarter, Anita's videos did not improve in quality (I'll link her pre-kickstarter and post-kickstarter videos as sources [3] and [4]), and nor did she appear to use any of that money for recording the footage she needed from the games, as the blogger Vicsor points out; Anita actually doesn't use any original footage in her videos. She simply finds Lets Play videos on YouTube and then takes their footage[5], she lied about liking video games since she was a kid [6], despite her claims in her TED talk that she's been playing video games since she was a kid, and she hasn't put out any statement regarding where it went. Taking a closer look at my statement, I can see I did put in a little too much ambiguity; if those comments were directed at her being a woman, you can say they were sexist comments. Of course then the argument morphs into whether or not that's indicative of her entire critical base (clearly its not, since I'm here), or that there exists a sexist culture in the gamer community. Since there isn't really a way to variably test or count the number of sexist to non-sexist comments, and my personal experience is invalidated due to its sources and my bias, this argument becomes a dead end. We can't definitively say that there's a culture of sexism; the only thing that we can say for certain is that a portion of Anita's critical base is sexist. But the bigger problem is that you think that how these games portray people actually has an effect on the world. You asserted that there are real-life consequences for this; that is absolutely no different than those who think video game violence correlates with actual violence (the simple counter for this is ""what video game were people playing for the previous 2,000 years?""). Anyway; I've used up about two third of my characters, so I'd better close up. In summation, Anita's arguments are based upon more than a few fallacies, including post hoc reasoning and indirect foundational bias; the same tactic advanced by creationists, which is assuming a conclusion before gathering evidence, instead of assuming a conclusion from evidence already gathered. She, and her supporters, make far too many unfounded assumptions; namely that there is an entity called the gaming industry that is biased against them, when in reality, there are far simpler explanations that don't need to rely on unnecessary assumptions for the reason why some female characters are bland, and are left vulnerable to the Razor. She uses the example of Mass Effect 3's advertising in her latest video, citing the fact that the Male Shepard is used in most promotional material as an element that makes Female Shepard inferior to him[7], even though a far simpler, and more appropriate, answer can be found in the fact that it's cheaper for a company to produce only one version of advertising, and as Bioware themselves said, less than 20% of players actually play as female Shepard[8]. Anita mistakes simple story and editing choices, like flipping a characters gender, as sexism when in reality, there are easier explanations for this that make far more sense in an editorial context; like the fact that flipping a character's gender is a very easy way to create a new character without having to write in a backstory, especially in early games like Pac-Man when you only have a few pixels to work with. But in any case, that's all out of me. Thanks very much for the debate my friend, and I hope everyone reading this took away something constructive. So in my favorite author's immortal words: ""So long, and thanks for all the fish""."	CON	782
782	S1f98e1f8-Accf2d484	playing sports is way better than sitting at home and playing video games	I would just like to point out a few facts about what you just stated. 1) would be that you said that violent video games are not the causes of violent behavior.(paragraph 1) 2) you talk about the parental figure that the kids would have. (paragraph 2) 3) The physica fitness of the person.(paragraph 3) 4) Crime rate since video games have ben out.(paragraph 4). In recent research that has ben done on the effects of a teenager and violent vidoe games are that they can definetly change a person. Some of the studies that have ben done are that an average boy will play around 13 hours or more a week on video games. Also there is more than a 65% chance that the video game or games that the person would be playing is a violent video game that has to do with killing people. Studies have show that a teenage male or even a boy around the ages of 8,9,10,.... have had these effects. They tend to be more agressive. They are more prone to have issuse with there teachers. May engage in fights at school with there peers. They also will see a decline in grades at there school. Finally they will start to disobey the law. As you can see the chance of a boy playing violent video games alot can make them be a bad person. I would also like to state that there has ben a video game made on one of the most gory movies ever made. That game is saw. http://www.pamf.org... http://www.askmen.com... xbox360.ign.com/objects/142/14231742.html You also talked about the parental figure that one would have. I certinly hope you know that not all kid or teenagers are going to have a good set a parents. some parents could care less about what their childeren watch or even play(like video games). I am also not just talking about a bunch of 8 and 9 year olds. No I am talking about the young teenagers that their parents(even if their parents are good parents) are thinking to themselves that their son or even daughter is old enough that they could play whatever. But I am not just trying to blame the parents either. Its like a 25% 75% thing. Its not all the parents fault and its not all the childs fault either. Some parents might not even know what the ratings on the game oven mean. http://www.badparenting.net... http://www.esrb.org... Now the physical fitness can not only have to do with stress, and family. it has to do with alot other things like mabey actually doing things that are healthy for you. going out and doing activities out side. I know that not all people can do that but kids certinly can. they have gym at school but that shouldnt be the only exercise they get every day. you also stated that it has to do with jobs. im not talking about adults. Im talking about kids of the ages 8 to 18. I know that when a kid turns 15 they can start looking for a job but it shouldnt be that hard. All i am trying to say is that a person can choose to be over weight. they can either choose to sit down and eat a ton of food and do nothing but play video games and watch tv or they can want to be healthy and go out and do something physically fit. There ae lots of thing that a person can do outside that can be very fun. http://www.exercisetv.tv... http://dnr.wi.gov... http://www.healthpartners.com... www.scheelssports.com/ Since the video game industry has evolved from pac man and things like that there has ben a 17% increase in crime rate. people are getting mor and more agressive due mostly video games. there has ben from school shootings to even a young boy year old stealing a car. Im pretty sure that in grand theft auto you can high jack cars. I am not saying that a young boy would be playing thosekind of games, but he could have ben watching one of his older siblings playing the game. He was fairley young and he was already stealing cars. how do you think that looks about the youth. And speaking of the youth, recent studies have show the crime rate in High schools and middle schools and lets not forget college have gone up significly in the last 50 years http://www.en.wikipedia.org... http://www.uk.answers.yahoo.com...... - United Kingdom http://www.crimeinamerica.net... http://www.forum.dvdtalk.com... http://www.blurtit.com...	PRO	783
783	Sb1a6f17a-Ad4f213d5	Violence in video games does not significantly contribute to real world violence.	"There is possibly some things I didn't bother to clarify enough in my arguments. Particularly how desensitization caused by violent video games leads to an increase in violence outside of a military setting. I'll get to that and we should be crystal clear after that. Another thing I'll be hitting on is a logical fallacy my opponent has been using, which is basically her entire argument. AFFIRMING A DISJUNCT My opponents logical fallacy is called affirming a disjunct. Affirming a disjunct would look like this: Either A or B since A it's not B. Or if I wanted to write a more easy to understand example, here it is: Me or Debatability are debating. Since Debatability is debating it must mean I'm not. Anyway I'm not the best at writing examples, so if you're confused read the link that I'm using as a citation to prove my opponent's logical fallacy. http://www.fallacyfiles.org... Here is how my opponent has used this logical fallacy. ""A common argument against violence in video games is that violence in video games cause aggression. This is actually not the case. Carol Pichefsky notes that aggression is not caused by violent video games; rather, it is caused by a competitive environment "" This doesn't prove that violent video games don't significantly contribute to real world violence. It merely shows that competition contributes significantly to real world violence. Both desensitization and competition can contribute significantly to real world violence. This isn't one of those either or situations. Competition is a huge reason for violence. If this weren't the case than evolution would have never occurred. VIOLENCE RATES The chart my opponent provided isn't really well cited. I can't pull up what those numbers even mean is it a chart showing international or national video games sales and crime? It doesn't even matter. Violent video games can contribute significantly to real world violence, while the crime rate decreases. The chart really just boils down to correlation stats as opposed to causation stats. VIDEO GAME'S EFFECTS ""Studies suggest that video games give individuals an outlets to release aggression; there was a study done on inmates. An observer notes ""If you give them video games, they""ll be less likely to start fights. So once a week we""d hook up a bunch of TVs in a classroom so all of the murderers and rapists could play Halo. There""s nothing more interesting than seeing guys who have killed multiple people deathmatching each other"""" The article referenced no such studies of inmates. The quote my opponent grabbed was on cited from an author of a cracked.com article. It's just a funny story a former prison guard was recounting. The article did cite a few articles that showed some positive effects of violent video games, but none showed a decrease in aggression or violence as a result of playing them. NOT BORN TO KILL ""Killing simulations that promote competition can have the same effect. So, it may not necessarily be the violence in the simulations that made the kill rates go up; it could be the competitive factor."" You miss the point these are training exercises and according to the research you've provided aggression is only increased for a short period after the competitive endeavor. The competition on the shooting range is always going to be there regardless of whether the target is shaped like a human or like a dart board with the red circle in the middle. According to my opponents own research showing that aggression only increases for a short period of time after competition, we must assume something else is going on there. I say and the research suggests it's desensitization. It's easier to shoot a real person when you've simulated the event 100s of times and have gotten rid of that natural repulsion of doing so. DESENSITIZE ME My opponent brings up a study that. Contradicts mine and suggests that very little if any desensitization occurs. Let's examine this study closer. ""The study involved 122 male and female undergraduate students who fell into two categories: 45 participants who had some video game experience within the last six months and 77 students who reported no video game exposure."" http://www.newswise.com... The students were asked this question on a survey. (Probably more, but relevant to this debate) 1. Have you played a video game within the last 6 months? So how many of these students only played 1 game the previous 6 months? How many had had less than 3 total hours of videogaming those 6 months? How many of the non videogames players were exposed to a ton of other forms of violent media, such as slasher flicks? These types of studies need to have participants chosen more carefully. The study I showed uses people that play videogames a lot vs people that play rarely or if at all. It's a far better indicator of the effects of violent videogames. The study I've shown indicates that a lot of exposure to violent videogames makes it more likely that somebody will pull the trigger. ""2. This study involves a large amount of competition. This is what really makes this study invalid. The competition is what could really be promoting the regular gamers to push the button. When constantly being exposed to competition via video games, one is more likely to show aggression, as I have proven in my constructive. So, rather than the aggression being caused by video game violence / desensitization, it is caused by the regular competition provided by video games."" The study I've shown though small indicates that exposure to a lot of videogames caused participants to be less concerned about the well being of their opponents. My opponents studies have shown that aggression is only temporarily increased due to exposure of competitive videogames. The study I linked to shows an increased willingness to pull the trigger. So something other than the temporary increase of aggression must be considered. That something is desensitization, as indicated by the decreased response to violent imagery. DR. BRUCE "" So, desensitization (if indeed caused by video games) results in reduced responsiveness to actual violence, not violent crimes themselves. For this point to stand, my opponent must prove that (a) video games actually desensitize individuals and (b) desensitization significantly contributes to violence."" What desensitization does isn't necessarily cause people who aren't predisposed to violence to become violent. It actually contributes significantly to a culture of violence. Psychopaths are about 1% of the population and have a lack of concern for other individuals. They also make up over 30% of the prison population. http://news.uchicago.edu... The 1% number is on the conservative end as well. Some psychologists have them at 4% of the population. These people will slice your throat and not feel an ounce of guilt about it the next day. Most of them probably won't do that, but they still account for a disproportionate amount if the violent crime taking place in the United States. Common sense tells you that with an increase in apathy about violence going on right in front of your face that more people inclined to commit violent acts will feel free to do so. We have what's called the bystander effect that occurs all the time and we keep seeing. New cases of it on television all the time. http://m.psychologytoday.com... Bystander effect is actually where witnesses to a violent crime, do nothing to stop it or alert authorities to the situation. Sure some of this is caused by fear, but a large amount is caused by apathy. People just aren't bothered watching a man knock a woman's teeth out and take her purse. Psychopaths now feel safe committing violent acts in front of others due to the bystander effect. Another violent trend taking place across the United States is called ""The Knockout Game"". This is where a group of kids go around punching people as hard as they can in hopes of knocking them out. The targets are usually little old ladies or other defenseless people. http://newyork.cbslocal.com... All it takes is one psychopath leading a bunch of desensitized teens just wanting to fit in, and committing the act of violence in front of a mixed crowd of desensitized and scared people. Half scared to step in the other half just isn't bothered by it. Desensitization creates a culture of violence. It makes people inclined to violence more likely to be violent and contributes by making violence less repulsive and by extension more acceptable. ""The violence in video games isn't what actually causes violence. What really causes violence is various factors such as delinquent peers, depression, abusive family, and (as I have stressed on in my rebuttal) competition. Video games can give already aggressive individuals a way to release their aggression. Surprisingly, video games don't actually cause desensitization; moreover, desensitization hasn't been proven to cause violence."" Those things mentioned are certainly factors, but just as important a those things is the culture of violence caused by desensitization. I've already proven that violent simulations (aka videogames) contribute to more violence on the part of the government and. If we look at the numbers to see how many deaths the government participates in, we can see that is a huge number. I've also shown that the desensitization caused by violent video games contributes significantly in direct and indirect ways."	CON	784
784	Sc320f565-Ab6851651	Recent Bandai Namco Gundam Video Games should not be given positive reception	Gundam may perhaps be dying out but these anti-consumer practises aren't exactly helping. If games based on Gundams continue to deteriorate in quality then that will drive potential fans away. Right now, If we keep supporting these games, They may either stop producing games completely or change direction (which is unlikely). Right now, Gundam is relying mostly on Gunpla and somewhat on the anime, And that industry is keeping Gundam relevant and afloat. In the aspect of video games, However, Gundam is not faring well and while there are potential in these games, If Bandai Namco (or perhaps another company) doesn't bring anything new to the market that isn't a gacha, Obnoxious paywall, Or slight upgrades here and there, I believe they should not be taken positively. If you watched the video (which is fine if you didn't since it's not in english) you can see that he is not afraid to point out problems and anti consumer practises, And I am sure there are japanese people who do this as well. This is because these games are catered towards an Asian market, But here in the west we should not change our own standards because of that. Standards are standards, And we should not be grateful for the little bandai Namco have done for us. We should not let our standards drop just because it's Gundam, We should keep them as high as we would with other video games in the market. Bandai Namco is a triple A developer and publisher, So they wouldn't be short of creating quality games. In fact I believe we should take our standards higher, And expect more from them as they are a big company.	PRO	785
785	S3ca50531-A2ecb00e1	Video games have had an overall positive impact on society.	"As the nagative case to this debate my job is to prove the case of my opponet wrong. I have one contention that so far out ways all of my opponents, and I hope you will agree. Contention: In most cases where they are deciding whether something is good or bad for society is by proving that the good outways the bad, and in this case, even though video games may do all of those things mentioned, I still believe that the bad of videogames out weighs the good. Just as an example here are the top ten negative effects that videogames have on society which greatly outweigh the good. 1. An increase in emotional disorder symptoms 2. An increase in and behavioral disorder symptoms 3. Declines in verbal memory performance 4. Somatic complaints 5. Attention problems such as hyperactivity, ADD or ADHD 6. Detrimental school performance (as video game usage increases, GPA and SAT scores decrease) 7. Family interaction problems such as less positive parental relations 8. Significant reduced amounts of slow-wave (REM) sleep 9. Modifications in visual selective attention 10. Playing violent video games is a significant risk factor for later physically aggressive behavior My sources: Pediatrics 2008 Nov;122(5):e1067-72 European Psychiatry 2008 Apr;23(3):212-8 Journal of Psychiatry Research 2008 Mar;42(4):253-8 Pediatrics 2007 Nov;120(5):978-85 Cyberpsychology & Behavior 2007 Aug;10(4):552-9 Psychological Science 2007 Jan;18(1):88-94 Pediatrics 2006 Oct;118(4):e1061-70 Also according to research done by Susan Carney who has been working as a middle school counselor with 6th and 7th grade students for the past twelve years. She received a BA in Psychology from Temple University and completed her M.Ed. in School Counseling at West Chester University. Video games are also harmful in other ways such as bad examples of how to treat woman as men are more likely to play videogames. She says, ""The themes in video games also normalize unhealthy social relationships and interactions. Male on male violence is presented as the way to determine pecking order: gang violence is glorified, and men solve conflicts through fighting to establish their place on the social chain. Since teens are very concerned about their social status, they are especially vulnerable to this type of modeling. Violence is also used to establish control over women, and sexual violence is common in some of the most popular games. Repeated exposure to and participation in these storylines for kids just learning how too navigate relationships can normalize this behavior for both boys and girls, and can impact their expectations of each other. There is cause to be concerned about the impact of violent video games. Parents need to be aware of the content of the games their kids are playing, and use the video game rating system wisely. Parents should also talk to their kids about the themes and storylines of these games, and stay on the alert for any behavioral red flags that may indicate a problem."" Thank You"	CON	786
786	Sd08d61c8-A395497d2	Video games are benifical to people of every age.	"""and for the rest of my case he didn't touch so those will go thru this debate and he can't bring them back up."" You had three arguments , and i posted three counter arguments.... How can i have not touched them...? That statement makes no sense at all. If it's more sources you want i can give them to you. I just don't see the point in listing countless sources the only point of sources is to prove that you didn't just pull the information out of your but.(it dosn't allow profanities...) Then why couldn't i bring them back up? you make no sense and you made no new point. So please tell me are there any reason's other than those three you keep bringing up? Your sources aren't even reliable. I mean one of them was a freaking word document. I quote ""Video games will undoubtedly and inevitably lead to the downfall of all of humanity.""...... Right video games are going to be the reason humanity dies? No i don't think so a nuclear fallout is much more likely. Now back to topic. You where right the wii is only one example of a game to help obesity there are more. Such as guitar hero world tour, and rock band2 they offer a drum like controller and it takes allot of calories to play these games efficiently. It does help with obesity, Autism, rehabilitation, and many more. http://www.clemburkedrummingproject.com... ""but playing video games will not turn 'normal 12-year-olds into school shooters', said Iowa State University's Distinguished Professor Craig Anderson, one of the world's foremost scholars on media violence."" This came from your source which only backs my source up more.(http://www.neoseeker.com...-/) If kids have a violent personality already than it is possible that they might get a little more angry. Video games help allot more than just that. With the constant demand of new games and better graphics, and better computer AI etc. Games are the main reason we have so many computer advancements so fast, and another good reason we keep making graphic cards smaller and memory fit into smaller space etc is because nobody wants an ugly bulky console. Of course you don't know who they are! DUH... Kids are going to be a lot more likely to talk to someone they don't know. Than some person they know from school that there already nervous around enough. I have a friend over xboox live that i gave advice to how to talk to girls. I actually got a girl on there to talk to him. He isn't single anymore.... It does help with social life and can make it much easier to talk to new people. studies have shown games to actually save peoples life. It can help make a surgens hand more steady and it easier fo him to ditingish between the diffrent parts. Haveing the surgean less likely to make mistakes. http://www.curse.com... Some games even help kids with how to spend there money. Like the game runescape. It teachs kids to save money and it takes hard work to actually earn the money(gold in the game) to buy better items so they can kill monsters and other things easier. Such as geting void armour. It takes countless hours to get this armour from which you get through a mini game. You have to kill monsters that come from a portal which you have to destroy(a total of three in the mini game), and to protect the void knight. I'll also site on of the maney caountless ways of making money(more common to the free players of the game) in the game. Which is killing giants and geting there big bones which can be sold for a decent amount of money.This also techs kids to be the best they can because there are lots of people trying to get money this way so there is competiton just like in the job market who ever has the better resume(stats in game) gets the job.(if you don't know what i mean by stats is the levels your chracter has.)(i normally wouldn't go into so much detail but since he seems to think that is a big deal so i did) http://edugamesblog.wordpress.com... You Also don't have to sit around all day playing vidoe games. Yes some people do But there are people who abuse everything in life. I personaly play vidoe games at night when i can't be outside and be active. Many kids do this. Lots of soilders play games to help relive stress when there staioned somewhere. You say ""Practicing violent acts may contribute more to aggressive behavior than passive television watching."" How maney shows on telvision these days are truley passive? I have countered your arguments sucefully and provided reliable sources(not shady microsoft word links) I have now countered all three of your arguments twice. I have made better points. I have made several diffrent arguments. I have actually countered your arguments not just given links and let someone else do the work for me. ""You must look at whose case stood up more. Mine has stood up agianst his agruments. Also you must look at the facts i have given you countless examples and he gives you five."" yes i only gave five because i don't need people to argue my point for me. I only gave exampls because you made a big deal about it. I did counter all of your arguments i'm still not for sure where you got i didn't counter some of your arguments. And to sum this all up Video games are timeless and enjoyed by all people of every age and are just as benifical as they are fun. I urge you to vote PRO. Thank you for the debate."	PRO	787
787	Sd0e5c093-A5cdcaefd	should vilent video games be banned	"There are a couple key issues with my opponent's argument. First, I would like to state that she has avoided all my contentions, leaving them standing. Also, she has dropped a contention of her own (behavioral scripts) and brought in a brand new one. (violence towards women) I will refute my opponents argument then extend my case. Refutations Pro brings up sources, which she lacked last round, yet still provides not details to these sources. They are simply stated as ""A 2009 study"" and ""a 1998 study"". Are these reliable sources? Can you, as the reader, verify any of this? Of course not, but I will show how it is irrelevant anyway. In my last round, I quoted the co-founders of the Harvard Medical School center for mental health and media, and they explicitly said ""...that children engage in the illegal, immoral, sexist and violent acts they see in some of these games - are not supported by the current research"". The last part is key. IT shows that all research up to date is not conclusive and should be written off, which is exactly what you should do with my opponent's ""facts"". This, and the fact that my opponent still has provided no actually source, causes her whole argument to fall, and I win. Seeing as there has been no discussion of my two points as to why violent video games should not be banned, I won't sit here and just give more details; keeping it easy on the reader's eyes. I will simply extend all arguments, and hope that my opponent's next response is more whole. Thank You"	CON	788
788	Sf501f7b2-Ae444613b	Video Games Costing Money	Like I said before, the people who create the games have to pay their employees and in order to do that they must sell the games at a high price. The people who create the computers themselves have to pay to create the parts and pay even more people to put the computers together. It is not wrong just two different companies trying to make money.	PRO	789
789	S9b9e68e4-Ada5ad172	Playing Video Games are greater in benefits than reading Fiction Books.	Thanks for Rezamme to make post his rebuttal. First I will answer to his rebuttals, make some minor arguments, and also make some rebuttals. I have an answer. Of course books are way easier to access because there is free public library where you can get access to books. Also most books are about 5$. However, if you play games you need a phone or computer. Usual computers are 1000$ and a phone, you have to pay montly. Note: This is a serious debate. I just did that to not be sleepy. 2. However books are entertaining too. If you end fast, you will start reading the next one. Now I will go on to my minor arguments. 1. I think there are a whole host of reasons. Books have, of course, been around for a lot longer than video games and so have had longer to be accepted into the cultural canon, the world over. They’ve also have had longer to develop as an art form – writers have the comparatively larger weight of literary history behind them to learn from, to reference and to improve upon. In fact, as a general point, there are more books in existence than there are video games (humans have been writing for much longer than they’ve been programming) so, purely from a statistical standpoint, there are more good books out there than there are good video games. (And, naturally, there is a veritable ocean of literary tripe out there too, which certainly overwhelms the number of crappy video games in exactly the same way. Simply because there’s more to choose from.) I think there’s a crucial difference in perception too. Books are studied in virtually all schools, colleges and universities, whereas video games are studied far, far less often; instead, they’re played. We can all remember being in a classroom as a child, labouring through the finer points of a book or poem, but hardly any of us have ever studied the complexities of gaming in an academic environment. Consequently, books appear to be more ‘serious’ and ‘smart’, whereas video games are associated with ‘fun’ and ‘frivolity’. Now I will go onto my rebuttals. However even though you have quicker speed in those situations that is not really true. You don't need fast speed in playing games. You need fast reflexes. For example, if a ball just comes straight to you, if you have fast reflexes from your game. I am saying you don't really need those skills. If you do sports, you can use your fast reflexes. I am not saying you can do this in a book, However it is better than a game. You don't need motor skills. It is the same thing. Games do not give you the time learning literature except for looking at the gmae name or such.	CON	790
790	Sc63486e9-A95ced5d6	Do video games really cause bad behaviour to children	Rules: Stay on topic and may the best person win!!! Video games can't really put bad behavior into the lives of the kids of today. Here are some reasons of this: 1) rated games a) Many games such as Halo, Call of Duty and other war like games can put kids intoo nightmares or even try these killing procedures. Kids play these games and can really hurt or kill themselves, like trying to play with a nife. But if kids stick with the rated games to their prior age, i t can stop this. Games that are rated for kids would be like Super mario, or games such as Kung fu Panda or Indiana Jones. 2)Educational Games a) Games can also be educational, such as learning step games for kids, and mah-like gmaes for older ones. Games are useful in many ways. Games can be used to help kids want to learn of the futer genrerations. Some websites that i have seen before that has done this is such as a game that teaches math by snowmen. Everytime you get a question right, you get to decorate the snowman. This is how games can be educational 3) Kids a) Kids will never stop playing games, if they are good for them or not. If you are able toi puch education into thesegames, then it would be possible to teach kids from playing games This is my judement on if video games are goo f for kdis or not	CON	791
791	Sb6ccf777-A835025e7	Video games have more positive benefits than negative ones	"Who is more useful to society, healthier and has better well-being: a bespectacled child, cooped in his dark bedroom having played video games unrestricted for the last 16 hours sniping down virtual targets and dying of fatigue? Or his twin brother attending school and socialising with his friends, building valuable friendships that will carry him through his life? Here I am going to point out that my adversary has provided a seemingly wide plethora of reasons to prove his stance, he has provided no logical reasoning to substantiate them. I challenge him to prove them in the next round - or I shall treat them as invalid and take the debate. Also, analysing his ""10"" reasons, 1,2,9 and 10 are essentially the same. So are 6,7 and 8. So that leaves him with only 5 unsubstantiated reasons. Even if all this is untrue, this debate is not about throwing out plus points of both sides, but COMPARING THEM and seeing which are BETTER. I will rebut his points in my 3rd round. I take it that seems he did not make any reference to my myopia point, he agrees with it completely. Violent video games The idea behind this point is the proliferation of violent video games has a negative psychological effect on children and on society. 90 percent of games rated E10+ and above have some kind of violent imagery, and violence is often portrayed as justified, fun, and without negative consequences (Iowa State University). One study found that 70% of E-rated games involved deliberate violence, and 65% reward violence or require violence to advance in the game. Studies have found that violent games promote feelings of hostility and aggression, desensitize the player to violence, and skew the player's perception of what constitutes violence. Long term effects include increased impulsiveness. Given that the brain sometimes is unable to differentiate real life and games, children are then subconciously influenced to carry out such violence in real life without understanding the consequences."	CON	792
792	Se406e709-A7ee3ae5b	Dave Ramsey should be the focus of a new era of financial video games.	"In round 3 I will rebut my opponents final argument, and provide a summary of the debate. In round 3 my opponent presents his/hers final argument, ""[Dave Ramsey is] very capable of running his own video game series"". I would like to see a source for this evaluation of Ramsey's capability to run a video game series. But as this is the last round I will accept it as a fact. However, the question was whether he should be the focus of an entire era of video games. An era and a series is not the same. I would like to sum up this debate. My opponent showed that a game series based on a real life character is possible (the Tony Hawk series). However, - Pro dropped my first argument; Nobody chooses what a era of video games is focused on. - Pro dropped my second argument; One character as the focus of an entire era of video games would be repetitive and not interesting - Pro dropped my third argument; Why would they focus an entire era of games on Dave Ramsey? I requested an example of a series based on a character such as Dave Ramsey, which my opponent provided. Except for this, my opponent has ignored all my arguments. My opponent also tried to change the subject of the debate halfway in. Vote Con. I would like to thank my opponent for this debate."	CON	793
793	See0927f6-Af32c4c11	video games are bad for not only children, but all humans	"First of all, video game is one of entertainment which majority people can enjoy and can have relaxing time or taking off stress. Nowadays, the function of video game expanded not just for entertainment but it become sports, competition, or even for educational using video game. World have e-sport like dota, local competition like FIFA, or educational one like typer shark deluxe which train your ability to use qwerty keyboard and typing faster. ""Video game playing is often a collaborative leisure time activity for school-aged children. These results indicate that children who frequently play video games may be socially cohesive with peers and integrated into the school community. We caution against over interpretation, however, as setting limits on screen usage remains and important component of parental responsibility as an overall strategy for student success,"" (Katherine M. Keyes, PhD, 2016). https://www.mailman.columbia.edu... Based on that article, the problem is not about the game, but more to parental controlling. Video game is no more than instrument to releibe stress or entertaimment. The fault is lies on the person who overuse the video game into addiction. http://greatergood.berkeley.edu... The survey from the article show that problematic gamers are much more likely to smoke cigarettes, be aggressive, and show symptoms of being depressed. Interestingly, problematic gaming was not linked to a student""s grades, extracurricular activities, or the use of drugs and alcohol."	CON	794
794	Sc320f565-Abb81c42e	Recent Bandai Namco Gundam Video Games should not be given positive reception	"Wait what, Why did you forfeit. also I realised my argument last round may not have been exactly the most coherent so let me crystalise it in the meantime. I believe that Gundam as a franchise is holding itself up with their Gunpla and anime so it's death isn't tied to the video games. Video games are not the main reason which grab gundam fans, But if Gundam as a franchise wants to get people who play video games into gundam, They should make a great game whcih would catch everyone's attention. At this rate, However, The anti-consumjer practices and laziness is very coherent and would not bring many fans from the video game market. This should not be rewarded with positive reaction, Even if it would chase gundam away from the west. As you can see from the previously mentioned video, He is not afraid to point out problems adn even starts a ""f**k you bandai"" slogan. We should not drop our standards and we should not be lenient with Bandai if they release a gundam game here once in a blue moon as they have done little to impress. Again, Our standards should not drop and I believe that if we are strict enough on Gundam they either must change, Or stop sellign games here entirely. If the latter occurs, I believe it is for the best as we do not deserve to be treated they way they treat us now."	PRO	795
795	S69bf66d1-A6684a75b	Anita Sarkeesian and Women in Video Games	"I fail to see how sexism versus men is not as serious, or doesn't effect men in the same way it does women. In my mind, any form of discrimination is a bad thing. Actually it's not different. The motivations for doing so may be different, but ultimately, if you're going to complain about the ideal female being portrayed in video games, then you must also have a problem with the ideal male, otherwise you're simply committing special pleading in favour of the one you don't support. Also, what evidence is there that female characters serve only, or at least mainly, for the purpose of titillating the male audience? I can think of plenty of female video game characters who clearly aren't meant to just be there to be sexy. Samus from Metroid, or Tali from the first Mass Effect, Kat from Halo: Reach, Bonnie Macfarlane from Red Dead Redemption... I could go on. And I also don't see how there is more variation for male characters over females. Link isn't feminine, he's a young man wielding the master sword and chopping animals to pieces. I'll concede Mario, however his character was made back in the 1980s, when the video game industry was just taking off and story or character development wasn't their biggest concern. And what, tall, feminine forms that know how to destroy enemies and sass characters (case in point: Lara Croft, Faith from Mirror's Edge, Joanna Dark, Commander Shepard, etc.) are NOT positive traits? You may say that not every woman wants to be seen with big breasts or a busty figure. Well, not every man wants to be seen as muscle-bound or womanizers either. And in what way are the plentitude of female protagonists in games shallow? There are a few exceptions, but most of them I see are powerful characters. How do you mean ""judges""? Because there are plenty of fields where that's not true. In job interviews for example, women aren't treated very differently. You dress appropriately and professionally, and if your skills are sufficient, you get the job. I've often said that corporations are sociopathic; they don't care about you as a person, they care about what you can add to their machine. Sure there are exceptions, but for the majority, its simply untrue. If you're talking about modelling, of course you're judged by your body. If you're talking about dating, once again, of course you're judged for your body; the exact same way that men are. Not really. What does $6000 pay for? A couple months rent? Maybe some bills. If we're talking in terms of the project, speaking as one who visits game shops on a regular basis, that's easily enough to buy you every game she posed with. Let's factor in some video editing software for another couple hundred, maybe a new camera for a couple thousand: ultimately she needs maybe ten thousand. I'd like to know where the other 140k went. No, actually I didn't agree on that, so please don't put words in my mouth. I actually didn't concede anything on the field of whether or not the threats were sexist. I said that most of the threats were not to be taken seriously. And I don't think that the threats towards her were sexist; I think that those threats came from the safety of anonymity and the reinforcement of a mob mentality. If you want to say that the insults were directed at the fact that she's a woman: well of course they were. Insults generally trend towards attacking a very obvious component about you. Skin colour, gender, body shape, etc. I also didn't say that the internet fosters sexist behavior; I said the the safety created by the internet, reinforced by the mob psychology, makes it easier for people to say outrageous thinks and desensitizes us to insults. For example: You would NEVER hear some kid say he had sex with anothers mom in a video arcade thirty years ago; he would have gotten the crap beaten out of him."	CON	796
796	S6d9eb665-Adeb63122	new generation video games give a better experience, opposed to older games	"I don't think my adversary is quite understanding the argument that I am making for how age would determine experience. So I am going to offer up all of my points in one contention and break it down. Contention 1 How to define someones experience and what factors play a part in determining it. ""We cannot say that every 40 year old will like older gamming and that every younger person will like the newer gamming"" My adversary claims that I am generalizing a group of people when I make this point but it is far from that. He is claiming that new video games offer a better experience, the point I am making is that if in fact old games offer a better experience to one person or one age group, his resolution is not true. Every type of gamer and every age group group must be taken into consideration. He then claims that there is no evidence to support to this claim. Let me first cite some sources and show some facts that will show that I am correct with this assumption. Age is a big factor in gaming and also what type of game a gamer enjoys. First lets take a look at some statistics. ""The average gamer is 30 years old and has been playing for 13 years. Sixty-eight percent of gamers are 18 or older."" ""The type of game an average gamer prefers is often split in between casual and serious. Many factors can play into this such as age, the type of game, and when the game was made"" ""The truth of the matter is, interactive entertainment has existed in some mass-market form since the 1970s, and it stands to reason that there is a massive audience that has grown from childhood into adulthood and middle age with entertainment software as a constant presence"" http://www.theesa.com... http://www.ign.com... http://www.geekquality.com... http://library.thinkquest.org... http://www.geek.com... As we can clearly see with those stats, poll, and forums age is a huge factor and a lot of people prefer older games to newer games. Thus making my adversaries resolution false. Remember he is claiming that they offer a better experience as a whole, if I can find a group of people or even some people who have a better experience with old games, his claim is not true. We can see that the age of the gamer determines what type of game they will buy, and what what type they prefer. You can even see by some of the charts above that over 60 percent of gamers are over the age of 18. Most of these people grew up playing older games and will always prefer the experience of them over the new one. You can clearly see this is some of the forums. In fact game stop still sells 10 percent of older stock such as ps2 games on a stock check basis. So it is also quite obvious just by the fact that older games still offer a market and are still sold that some people prefer them. So now I will break this down even further. My job is not to show that older games give a better experience than new ones. All I have to do is show they can offer the same type of experience, and my adversary would also be proven wrong. I have did this very thoroughly as well. Also if I can show that a demographic of people, or certain age group prefers older games he would be wrong. Actually if I can just simply show that some people just prefer older games to newer games, he would also be wrong. I have not done just one, but all the above. He then states this ""I said however that there are emulators that can play the old games, piece for piece an exact copy of the game"" If he meant to say this then he is proving my point. An emulator is an often illegal version of a console that you can download to your pc. It is a program that allows you to player older versions of games and sometimes newer version. Often it is older and for free. If he is using this as a fact it goes to prove my point, that people still have a good experience playing old games and would go through the trouble of getting an emulator to play them. Thus showing the experience is quite memorable. In no way is this a new game, or newer game. It provides no credibility to my adversaries statement but goes to strengthen mine. He goes on to also say this "" I say that newer generation games give a better experience to all and you believe that a majority say the older generation games are better"" I have never said nor will say that the majority prefer older games. All I have to do is show a certain demographic or that some people prefer older games, and your resolution is not true. After this he goes on to claim that I said a majority of gamers are younger, and that he does not understand how marketing applies to my argument. I will break this down simply. I should have also phrased myself better when I said a vast amount of gamers are younger, It was in the context of saying that a vast amount of younger people, will be inclined to like new games more. If you take new graphics and compare it old graphics, new graphics will always win in that sense. Younger gamers did not get to experience the era in which older gamers got to. So they will not share the same love or passion for older games. This is not always the case but a vast majority. So to break down the marketing point, I will post his original point. ""AS we can see the rules have changed and game makers and developers are free to release to multiple platforms and are set at a market based value of consumption and price. This gives them the ability to free roam and explore the art of video gaming that’s why new generation games offer a better experience. "" He is claiming because of how marketing ideas work, this shows that they offer a better experience. So for this to be said we must define experience and how it is personal to someone. An experience can be positive or negative and is completely subjective to what type of game the person likes. For each person it is different, and for my adversary to claim that just simply new games offer a better experience, is not considering all the variables. Marketing works off what makes money and what is the majority. While a vast majority of gamers are older, this is not considering who is buying the material. This is in my sources as well. The newer generation tends to spend more on games. This is around the ages of 10-25. They are the ones that spend the most money, so they are the ones that will be focused on. Also if you shift through some of the other charts and figures in my sources you can see that older people (25+) will often buy games based off of cost efficiency. Which often leads them into still buying older games. Cost is a huge factor as to what is bought. Marketing ideas are always based off of what will appeal to the masses who are buying, and since younger people spend more money on it, it is only logical to assume that is whom will be focused on. In Closing I think it is almost irony in the sense my adversary says that I am generalizing, when he is claiming that a majority or all people prefer or tend to prefer new games and receive a better experience from them than older games. There is no way for him to show this resolution is correct. If one demographics or one group of people have a better experience with older games, his statement is wrong. There are such a vast amount of variables that play into the experience someone has with a game, that it is impossible to judge or claim which generation is better or preferred. Thus my adversary has not or will not meet his BOP with this claim. ALSO Note under his defintion of old which is the 2,000s wow and LOL, are old games. They still contain bad graphics and all the basics from when they were made. Just with these two games alone, there is a 10 million + fan base."	CON	797
797	Sb6ccf777-A98333c3d	Video games have more positive benefits than negative ones	Positive effects of video games 1. Cognitive response 2 . Problem solving capabilities 3. Hand high coordination 4. Awareness 5. Social Skills (when online, despite what my adversary says 6. initiative-building 7. motivation 8. competitive nature 9. increased brain activity 10. critical thinking In addition most researches and studies show that video games have more positive effects than negative. http://www.psychologytoday.com... http://www.huffingtonpost.com... http://kidshealth.org... http://everydaylife.globalpost.com... http://www.psmag.com...	PRO	798
798	Sbaa6345c-A8538b75	Violent Video Games Lead to Real Violence (First Debate)	"Maybe you and the majority of people can cope with violent video games and are sensible enough to not recreate any of these acts in real life. However, there are people (people who do it for fun and mentally incapable people) who will simply get ideas from this violence and feel the need to do it in real life, to find out other people's reactions. Petty crime has increased after these violent video games, as these now provide new ways of doing crimes without getting caught - you can say almost like a ""tutorial"" as the levels can be replayed and as it gives advice."	PRO	799
799	Se20430a8-Ac14bb5ee	Video games are not bad	It COULD be, but the probability of that is low. The last time anything like that has happened was about 4 years ago, or so, when Manhunt 1 came out in England. BUT, games much worse(GTA) have come out since, and kids aren't going out and killing! And if a kid has a problem, no good parent would buy their kid an M rated game! Its the law that u must have a liscence to buy M rated games, so the only way for a kid to get one is through a parent! And thank you, good debate so far	PRO	800
800	S5b6b23f-A9b15b250	Violent Video Games	"If this is not related to the debate then why did you post it"" It added on to what my comments were at the time. What your comment on it was completely unrelated. You claimed that 'You need to describe in more detail on how they acted like 1st graders'. This is unrelated to the debate. ""That is impossible. You need to have an ID to buy a M rated game. He problem went with a parent/ Guardian"" Not always true. There is a large market online with no ID requirements. Also, this is still an unrelated comment to the topic. Take Note: In round 1 I said that this debate was about children who are immature enough to play the games. And I added quite more detail then that in both rounds 1 and 2. ""Also I know there are games that are inappropriate from immature children, but if their parents trust their children to not act like that and tell all of their friends exactly what happens in that game that is inappropriate then they may play those M rated games"" This is a very confusing run-on sentence. Most the time the parents do not know how the children act away from them. Some parents even embrace letting the children act like this. Since the Con has failed to provide any related, or useful supportive information for his arrgument, then my arrgument will end here."	CON	801
801	Sf5624343-Ab61abae0	Fun Argument: Books (Pro) vs Video Games (Con)	"See the house you live in?? Do you think that house was made by playing video games? Do you think video games have any part in making that ""house"" you live in? The people who made your house are licensed (hopefully). Do you know how those people got licensed to make that house you're living in? They got licensed by taking standardized tests, by reading books on construction... THIS is just a hook.... Think about ""Doctors"" for a second.. it would be a shame if we didn't have modern medicine... right? Now the question.. how does a Doctor become a Doctor?? ----> http://education-portal.com... You need to earn a medical degree, then you need to enroll in medical school! Do you think any of these doctors never read a book? Lets take all the books away from these doctors :)... ohh no? why not? Now lets take all the video games away! haha it wouldn't make a huge difference. Hence, books are more important! because they make a bigger impact in society."	PRO	802
802	S46642c87-A2f4cbab2	Violent video games desensitize individuals to real violence	Long-term media violence effects on aggression result from the development, overlearning, and reinforcement of aggression related knowledge structures. Each time people are exposed to violent video games, they rehearse aggressive scripts that teach and reinforce vigilance for enemies (i.e., hostile perception bias), aggressive action against others, expectations that others will behave aggressively, positive attitudes toward use of violence, and beliefs that violent solutions are effective and appropriate. Therefore, repeated exposure to graphic scenes of violence is apt to be desensitizing. http://www.apa.org...	PRO	803
803	S6d9eb665-Afe25a7d5	new generation video games give a better experience, opposed to older games	"I'm starting off with what would have to be the best part about a games development; the music, it enriches and enhances the games experience. as you can see over the years the gaming industry has gone from 6 bit music for background, then the digital sounds of the 90s to the large orchestras and array of bands that feature in the games of today. take on of the biggest of today, Bethesda. Bethesda has created such things as fallout and elder scrolls. There most recent skyrim game, the atmosphere that is created through the use of the music. The composer Jeremy Soule said that ""The orchestra is the ultimate instrument. I find it has the ability to define nearly every human emotion in existence"". http://www.imdb.com... this is clearly not defined when playing games for the previous era, the digital music and light orchestral sounds give little to the story and don't pose the same ability as the full orchestra does. second point The character development is crucial to any game, this does not just revolve around the back story that he/she is given or the dialogue that is written. Some of the most important features of the character is the actual look. Developments in technology enable developers to create more realistic looking and sounding characters. http://www.facewaretech.com... humans respond to immersion in a video game even more when they feel like they are playing what seems to be a real human and almost as if they themselves are in the universe. another part is the actual affects that a player can make on a universe and the way the character and the whole universe changes and adapts but also reacts and interacts with the game itself. Take another iconic game such as mass effect. The players are able to create a character to their liking adapt it to their preferred play style, and not only do they have the ability to create, they have the ability to affect the environment. With full dialogue control and the choice of being good or evil can have a major affect on how we see the game but also how we feel about it. http://www.psychologytoday.com... http://au.ign.com..."	PRO	804
804	Sc4688886-A3ec528f2	Video Games Are Bad For Teens	Games can improve one's mind and hand eye coordination.	PRO	805
805	S5547489c-A7b13e079	Should teens be able to buy violent video games and why	Hello. I am in the position that teens should buy violent video games with parental consent. Teens should not be allowed to buy these games without consent because parents can decide on what sort of effect it will have on their teens. For instance, if a teen has reactsed negatively to violence in the past, than the parent has a right to refuse that their child play the violent game. I believe that teens should be able to play violent games with their parents' consent. Otherwise, they should not.	CON	806
806	Sbb4de64f-A669100a8	violent video games	no one makes games violent on purpose. it is only in your head but not the game	CON	807
807	S1910aba4-A91f4e687	This House Would Ban Video Games that Objectify Women	"I accept the challenge and would like to define the parameters if pro agrees as this is a rather wide statement. ""Unnecessary"" is a very wide term and its interpretation is very much dependent on individual preferences. Instead of debating ""unnecessary nudity"" I suggest we debate the use of ""overtly explicit nudity and sexual behaviour"". I would also like to define the impartial reviewer- are they being payed by the video games industry, through government funding or by some other means? Looking forward to debating this with you."	CON	808
808	S807447bf-A1aa8b574	Video game should not be banned	"Video games are what gets food onto the table for the family""s about 120,000 people rely on it as their job those people are hard at work making games for us to enjoy and love and many other people rely on games e.g Youtubers, Streamers if you took that away their would also be a huge economy drop from youtuber and streamers not able to play video games but also a drop from video games being banned video games make up 6.2 billion dollars the US economy alone according video Games in the 21st Century: The 2014 Report, which was an economic impact study conducted by Economists, this statics where from 2014 and have probably grown a lot. And if video games get banned their could be massive ripple effect and a final crisis."	PRO	809
809	S807447bf-A783f43cf	Video game should not be banned	"Video games improve problem solving skill and teamwork. Not all video games are just violent kill or be killed games. For example, ""Human Fall Flat"" where you gone work alone or as a team you go level by level figuring out the puzzles, so you can get to the next level this is a good example of what would improve you problem solving skill. it makes you think hard not them mindlessly kill people games that some of the older people think that all video games are. In game teamwork is a essential for most video games without you couldn""t succeed in your game. A study by Columbia university Mailman School of Public health in New York says children playing video games would be more social with their peers. Video games can help with problem solving skill and teamwork and should not be banned"	PRO	810
810	S7f02efbf-A6140434f	Playing violent video games make people more violent.	"Although my opponent shows a few observations about studies conducted which says violent video games has no effect on people, I gave the top 25 studies that dates back 30 years which is many cases showed after playing violent video games, people became more violent. Shows that not everyone reacts to the things the same way. One reaction to something says that everyone should react the same way to it? I beg to differ. I was exposed math, I became enthusiastic about learning math, and wanted to learn more on it. Yet others felt like math was dull and boring. To a certain point after learning math they felt it rendered useless. I on the other hand was taking college credited courses in math in high school. The point being is that not everyone reacts the same way to the same things. There are plenty of life examples that prove that theory. Just think about that before you decide to vote. Think about one thing that you were exposed to that led to other things and what made you not react the same way on other things. At some point to some degree if more than one study shows that after playing violent video games made some teenagers become more violent but not all studies. Then I prove my theory that violent video games can lead to people being violent. I'm not saying all, but in these rare cases of people that have it proves everything I been saying this whole debate. There are many different things in this world that influence people. Often musicians influence what people wear and how they act bringing in new terms etc. Along with many different things that comes from gamers terms. ""GoML"" If you are a gamer you should know exactly what that stands for. So I ask you, did I not prove it with previous studies and research that violent video games can lead to people acting out more violently? I believe I did. Checkmate. Even though it doesn't effect the mass the same way, it hit impact on few people and influenced them to do so. Brings me back to what I said before. Musicians often are influenced to become musicians through others in the past or present. But not everyone that's a music junkie suddenly wants to become a musician. Point being said is that not everyone that listens with a lot of music, wants to become a musician themselves, but there are a select few of the mass that wanted to and did. Many other prime examples such as actors and athletes. So in terms, I rest my case. I will message you tips on how to ""hold more water"" with you debate to make it stronger. Although it was a pretty decent debate in your case. No problem on accepting."	PRO	811
811	S1f98e1f8-A358894f8	playing sports is way better than sitting at home and playing video games	"Well what about those with physical disabilities that prevent them from being able to participate in physical sports such as chronic fatigue syndrome http://www.cdc.gov... or arthritis http://www.arthritis.org... and there is even a list of conditions on this page http://sped.wikidot.com... do you think it is wise for people with these physical disorders to participate in sports which could potentially worsen their conditions, I think not. The simple fact is not everybody can participate in physical activities due to bodily conditions so would it not be wise to let them play video games in order for them to entertain themselves? And how does sitting around your house playing video games make you a loser, from current trends in culture (well culture of the U.S.A.) people with game consoles (especially the newest ones) are held at a higher esteem and tend to be more popular in many social areas (this is more from a teens standpoint upon the subject) http://www.usatoday.com... http://www.examiner.com... http://www.associatedcontent.com... . I would also like to say this majority of programmers make a $53,964 salary http://www1.salary.com... and employment in this field is expected to continue to rise http://www.bls.gov... http://www.infoworld.com... you can also see some of the ""perks"" of their jobs (so to speak) and from what can be seen people who are interested in video games tend to be interested in programming http://mvpmodelingsolutions.com... http://www.racialicious.com... http://degreedirectory.org... now what are the odds of getting into any major league sport .00565% chance of that happening http://www.thesportdigest.com... http://forum.bodybuilding.com... , now are those high or low odds I am fairly certain that is considered to be a low probability bu the odds of being a programmer are significantly higher such as nearly 100% if you put your mind to it http://freelanceprogramming.blogspot.com... http://www.articlesbase.com... http://www.educationcenteronline.org... . You see video games interest the young in other fields of expertise other than that of a pro-athlete which you have a low chance of becoming. Although I agree that sports can help you stay physically fit that is not the only way, you can simply go to a gym and use the exercise room or jog it is not necessary to play sports in order to maintain physical fitness http://www.thedigeratilife.com... http://ezinearticles.com... . Playing video games also comes with certain benefits such as improving hand-eye coordination and enhancing creativity http://www.selfgrowth.com... . The idea of who is and who isn't a loser is a subjective matter due to the way you use it hence bearing no weight for I am fairly certain that people with a chance at making higher wages and a low chance of going out of business seem pretty cool to me, just use Bill Gates, Steve Jobs, and Steve Wozniak as a reference http://dictionary.reference.com... http://www.microsoft.com... http://allaboutstevejobs.com... http://www.woz.org... ."	CON	812
812	S33b3c1cd-A5adb0769	Video games are the sole reason for violent teens, and other persons.	"Thank you for accepting. Lets do this. For one, my position is against the statement ""Video games are the sole reason for violent teens, and other persons."" Argument #1: Almost all of the homicides, and mass murders in public are carried out by mentally ill persons. For example the Sandy Hook School shooting was done by a very ill person who has no care for peoples lives. Another example is the movie theatre shooting in the recent news. The person who started shooting was clinically ill and needed to be treated. Argument #2: I play ""violent"" video games and I have never had an urge to kill people and walk into a public places and open fire. Only people who has mentality issues do this. Not once have I had a thought like ""Oh hey, since I can kill people in an animated environment, completely fake, and un-real, that means I can kill people in real life and have no consequence?"" People who think that video games are the main reason for violence are morons. Our society just needed something to blame all of these random killings on. Therefor, saying that video games can alter a persons mind so much that they would want to kill people is bull crap. This concludes my first supporting argument, I am eager to hear my opponents position and reason."	CON	813
813	Se8780244-Ac6e0ad80	schools should allow kids to play video games at break	Schools should allow kids to play video games at break	PRO	814
814	S5b6b23f-Ae971cc38	Violent Video Games	"...on how they acted like 1st graders. This is not related to the debate."" If this is not related to the debate then why did you post it? Also notice that your entire debate from round 2 is just what I said and then a comment, nothing that relates to the debate. ""This is irrelevant, I know a 16 year old that bought a few Mature rated game without ID."" That is impossible. You need to have an ID to buy a M rated game. He problobly went with a parent/ Guardian. The cashiers at game stores (gamestop, ect.) ask for your ID when you are buying the game. Even if you reserved it and it's rated M you still need an ID or to be with an adult. Also I know there are games that are inappropriete from immature children, but if their parents trust their children to not act like that and tell all of their friends exactly what happens in that game that is inappropriete then they may play those M rated games."	PRO	815
815	S3a5eaf06-A2f0ef0f6	This House believes that violence in video games directly leads to real-world violence	"Many thank to Pro for accepting this debate; I look forward to it. I will start by responding to my opponent's contentions, and then introduce my own. Before I do, however, I'd like to remind my opponent that if he wants to quote from his sources (which is fine), then he should use quotation marks. Otherwise, the voters might think it's plagiarism, which would violate standard debating rules. Be careful. 1: Responding to my opponent's points (i) The Columbine Shooting My opponent points to the case of the Columbine shooting, in which two students executed a vicious and calculated attack on their school, killing 13 (15 if you include the perpetrators) and injuring 21 (24 if you include non-direct injuries). However, much of what my opponent has claimed about this incident is misleading, or a lie - I suspect from inaccurate sources, which my opponent has not quoted. I will break it down to better allow clarity: ""A definitive example of this is the Columbine shooting, in which two kids embarked on a deadly rampage at their high school. These two kids were, and I do not intend for this to be taken lightly, 'hard-core gamers' [...]"" _ Pro I agree with this, although ""hard-core"" is a matter of opinion. Indeed, people often call themselves ""hard-core"" to sound impressive, but it is a highly subjective term. ""[...] who have been enraptured in the M-rated game Call of Duty since they were small children."" _ Pro Incorrect, and actually impossible. The two attackers both committed suicide on April 20th 1999 [1], whereas the first CoD game (simply called ""Call of Duty"") was released on October 27th 2003 [2], over 4 years after they died. Moreover, my opponent then goes on to assert that: ""After playing the game for almost a decade [...]"", implying (at the best) that Call of Duty was released in 1992, thirteen years too soon. However, what my opponent goes on to say may be accurate, if the games are correct, such as ""Doom"", which I concede both attackers were known to play. [3] But, since my opponent has just asserted the cause/motivation of this event, I cannot argue against it, merely dismiss it by Hitchen's Razor. My opponent needs to provide evidence that these boys were motivated by the games before I address his contention. Finally, my opponent states: ""The amount of mass-shootings and indiscriminate killings has expanded to a large degree ever since the gaming industry has expanded to homes across the globe, and has become mainstream in much of the developed countries in America."" _ Pro. I'm going to interpret this to mean: ""Mass-killings have increased as video game distribution and popularity have increased."" This may be true, or it may not be (again, my opponent doesn't provide a source) - but it does not matter. Correlation does not necessarily imply causation. To state a correlation correctly, but then to simply state that one caused the other, is a logical fallacy called post hoc ergo propter hoc. [4] Until my opponent explains why he believes these correlations are affected by one another, they are not logical and I have, therefore, refuted this claim. (ii) Time Magazine's Article Since all my opponent did for this claim was quote directly from a second-hand source, it could be considered plagiarism. However, I will respond to it anyway, in order to keep the spirit of the debate alive, as it were. The study that Times is discussing is one made by Dr. Craig Anderson, who has been criticized for his work by other researchers for ""overstating results"" and failing to ""adequately take into account other factors"" [5][6]. This doesn't make his findings wrong, but I looked into this with skepticism. I point out to my opponent that his conclusions do not prove that video game violence leads to (causes) actual violence, they merely suggest a correlation between aggressive dispositions and thoughts. However, my opponent hasn't shown how video game violence cause one to act upon these thoughts. I might have many aggressive thoughts a day, if something's provoked them, but that doesn't mean that I set about being violent towards people de facto. Consequently, my opponent hasn't fulfilled his burden of proof. In conclusion, I have highlighted many errors in my opponent's analysis of the Columbine shooting, and showed how one study (a) hasn't demonstrated how violence in video games lead to violence and (b) highlighted professional concerns over Dr. Anderson's quality of work. (I recommend my opponent uses another source or study, by another person to help solidify his case). 2: My contentions (i) The Missing Factor This contentions suggests that, while I concede that aggression levels in the game might be increased by playing video games, the violence in them are not the cause. Recently, the University of Oxford published a study in which players played both violent and non-violent games, but their difficulty was manipulated. The results suggest that the difficulty levels do affect aggression levels, but the violence levels had little effect themselves. [7] This is a promising study, because while there have been many studies indicating that video games are linked to aggression levels, the idea of violence being the cause of them has always been inductively concluded. This study challenged these inductions - and found that to be an assumption, possibly incorrect. Consequently, it cannot be said that video violence leads to real world violence, when the link to video violence and aggression (necessary to motivate real world violence) just isn't there. (ii) So what? This contention I've already touched on with my rebuttals, so I shan't spend too much time on it. Effectively, even if aggression levels were definitively linked to violence level in video games, why does this prove that they cause real world violence? Going back to my example, even if I think about violence - and even if those thoughts were enhanced or stimulated through video game violence - why does this mean they'll necessarily be a causal relationship between the two? Until more evidence is presented, there isn't any reason to think this. The studies all suggest similar things, but leaping to a conclusion that: ""Aggression increased through video games, ergo, violence caused by video games"" is a leap of faith, especially when there are so many other factors that these studies never seem to consider. For example: Bullying, depression, other psychological dispositions or afflictions, more personal motives such as revenge. My opponent pointed out that video games are now much more common - my opponent's own source states that ~90% of children play video games [8] - but this argues in my favour. since the factor is so big, is makes it very difficult for my opponent to pin it down as a definitive cause for violence. It's like me saying that oxygen is poisonous, it just takes about 80 years to kill us. There's a correlation, but because 100% of Americans are exposed to oxygen, to prove my point I have to isolate very specific cases. That's it from me, for this round. I'll see you next round, everybody! Source(s): [1] http://topics.nytimes.com... [2] http://www.gamershell.com... [3] http://www.snopes.com... [4] http://en.wikipedia.org... [5] Grand Theft Childhood: The Surprising Truth About Violent Video Games, Lawrence Kutner PhD and Cheryl K. Olson ScD [6] Block JJ, Crain BR (2007). ""Omissions and errors in ""media violence and the American public."""". The American Psychologist [7] http://www.ox.ac.uk... [8] http://time.com..."	CON	816
816	S807447bf-A8296e7f5	Video game should not be banned	"How many people play video games?, about 1.2 billion people about 1 quarter of the worlds population and that means 1.2 billion people who would revolt against the video game ban. HI today I""ll be arguing that video games should not be banned. Video games should not have banned they are don""t cause enough harm to justify banning them. First of all Video games make up a chunk of the economy and if they were banned many people would lose their jobs and it would really put a big blow to the economy. Secondly Video games improve problem solving skills and teamwork. And lastly video games are a way to escape reailty and have fun and joy and you would be taking that away from the people."	PRO	817
817	Sbaa6345c-Af0b54daa	Violent Video Games Lead to Real Violence (First Debate)	"I feel that violence in video games does not create the player to become a more violent person, nor does it lead to more crime in the world by its players. A study that Villanova and Rutgers University had published ""found that when shooting game sales are at their highest, crime numbers tend to drop"" (1). There was also a study done in 2010 that found that used 103 young adults to solve a frustration task in groups, with some playing video games and some not. They found ""that the games had no impact on aggressive behavior whatsoever, and that the group which played no game at all was the most aggressive after the task, whereas the group that played the violent games were the least hostile and depressed"" (2). Studies like this exemplify that well known saying, """"Correlation does not imply causation"". (1) http://www.polygon.com... (2) http://www.forbes.com... (This is my first debate on this website so I might not do well/not know how to respond properly)"	CON	818
818	S7545bd1b-Afe5db7f9	playing video games can prove benefitial rather than bad for a person	Playing video games is not exactly beneficial. Good luck to my opponent.	CON	819
819	Scc799d93-Ad05595d8	Some video games are bad for kids	You're right, kids do need to be more active, parents don't care, and most games are bad. But not all games are that way. Sure, there are games that give kids an imagination, but there are also games that help you exersise, and teach you important life skills. For instance: the tycoon games teach you how to run a business, strategy games teach you how to think quickly and make good decisions, while games on the kinect or wii help you exersise. With those you're moving some or all of your body, and now that they made wii fit portable, kids can play the game where every they go and not rot their brains out infront of the tv. Plus there's that one quiz game that tests you on your knowledge. Some people who play those might want to work on what they didn't know, and then try again for a better score.	CON	820
820	Sd645ce1a-Ad52e2967	video games help	vidoe games are terible for your eyes. it is a known fact that all the characters come out of the tv screen and gauge your eyes out. especially token from the stick of truth!	CON	821
821	Sca66140c-A1fadfbee	should video games be banned	First of all ABC mouse isn't a game it is a learning system and secondly Games are not good for the body and eyes if you stare at a screen to long than you will become blind.	PRO	822
822	S2fba671-A85cad1dc	Do playing violent video games affect your mental health	"Yes, violent video games are something that can affect your mental health. Violent video games show gore, murder of people and animals, usage and abuse of drugs, alcohol, racial slurs, nudity and foul language. These things can cause serious problems, for example when a player is in rage if they died or lost a level they may slam their fist on a table or even more extreme smash their controller to bits and pieces. When playing a game you are so immersed into it you may not pay attention to things around you, like taking consideration for others and the area around you. But with those statements we can go deeper like in shootings/attacks in the real world, there have been shooting/attacks linked to games. For example the Columbine High School attackers noted that ""It'll be just like Doom"" Doom being a first-person shooter video game from the 90's which throws you into fights with creatures from the dimension of hell. Playing a game like this where you shoot other players or non playable characters can over time make it so you think the things in these games are ok do. In conclusion violent games can make you feel different and even influence you in a bad way. Sources- 1. http://www.aacap.org... 2. https://en.wikipedia.org...(series) Notes- Hello everyone, this is my first debate on this site. I am a beginning debater starting this year and I'm learning new things lately. I primarily focus on Lincoln""Douglas but I wanted to just do something like this, some uncoordinated if you know what I mean. This is by no means a LD debate its just something I threw together."	PRO	823
823	Scc6490a7-A808cd124	Playing video games promote creativity more than reading a book	Round one is acceptance. Con will explain how they think books are better for creativity than video games.	PRO	824
824	S1f98e1f8-A15d89cef	playing sports is way better than sitting at home and playing video games	"Now your first argument states that video games change a person, well that is not true the percentage of violence is the same in both game playing and non-game playing individuals. What does 13 hours of gaming a week have to do with anything it is simply 111.428571 minutes a day which amounts to 1.85714285 hours a day who cares. Your 65% chance that it is a violent video game is irrelevant beacuse of what I said about the percentages of violence being the same, and if violence is their isn't the simple fact that we show violence on T.V., in history textbooks, and insistently in the News just as bad, I am quite certain that you do not see it that way so your facts still remain pointless. Fights in school tend to have no basis upon the games they play it has mostly to do with how they are being raised, and other situations but video games do not play any true part within the origins of the bully behavior. Finally what does the movie Saw have to do with anything (or the game they made from it) it does not show you how to build those contraptions of death, it does not show you how to do anything of that nature and the fact still remains it does not show your child how to commit those heinous actions and it is more likely to give people nightmares than to make hem go around in a pigs mask and put them in a room with a tape cassette and tell them ""You have one hour to cut off your leg if you want to live"". http://www.associatedcontent.com... http://www.switched.com... http://arstechnica.com... http://www.thebluebanner.net... http://www.geeknewscentral.com... http://southeastpsych.blogspot.com... http://childbehaviourtips.com... http://www.selfhelpmagazine.com... http://www.xbox360achievements.org... http://www.salon.com... For your second argument I would like to inform you that I already know not all parents are caring, but my points from the previous paragraph still remain that the amount of violence remains the same for both parties. The parents also can go right up to the register and ask for about what the ratings mean, read the back label of the game that will elaborate the meaning of the rating as well as give a description of the game contents, and they can simply go to the ESRB website for rating information. Only a minority of parents are not actively involved in their children's lives. The point remains that parents still retain the ultimate control over the games they play. http://www.unmarried.org... http://atomsfamily.net... http://www.mhea.com... http://www.esrb.org... http://www.freedomfromfear.org... http://www.aboutourkids.org... Your 3rd argument coincided with what I had said that you do not need to pay sports to get physically fit. I never said they had to go to gyms at school they can go to any gym available, and I also said that they did not need a gym they can simply jog around. Also remember the fact that many ids have parents which will not let their kids go outside and play sports, and that some kids have so much work to do that they cannot take time out of their schedules to play sports. What is this I hear about you saying they are too young to be interested in their careers it is never too early for one to be interested in their career which will effect how they will live for the rest of your life. Remember that the majority of people who spends time playing video games do not spend all of their time eating, and if one wants to be physically fit they will attempt to do so it makes no sense to force them and if the parents want them to be fit then they will make them exercise. Also now more than ever I would like to point out a series of reasons children no longer go outside as much: they can live in a bad neighborhood in which it is safer to stay inside than outside, too much work at school, horrible weather conditions, too many extracurricular activities, parents are too strict, they have many household chores that need completion, etc . . . etc . . . http://www.quintcareers.com... http://career-advice.monster.com... http://www.nsls.info... http://www.aicpa.org... http://focusonyourfuture.org... http://www.collegenet.com... http://sweet_stuffva.tripod.com... http://www.cmt.com... http://www.parenting.com... http://www.ehow.com... http://today.msnbc.msn.com... http://www.experienceproject.com... http://www.whitehutchinson.com... http://boingboing.net... http://articles.latimes.com... http://www.nwf.org... For your IV argument I want to know a 17% increase since when, you make no elaboration upon the argument hence I say that it bears no weight. Another thing is that video games do not show you how to jack a car the simply show people doing it but never in enough detail to teach you to hijack the car, if a kid truly wanted to learn to jack a car all they have to do is read a basic car design book or look it up on the internet as well as take a basic automotive course at school so don't even bother blaming the game in this regard. Research shows that people who pay video games are no more aggressive than those that don't so that argument also remains futile. You also show no direct link to that child who stole a car and the presence of video games so how does it bear any weight in the regards of your argument, the quick answer is that it doesn't. Last I need to point out that simply beacuse violence in schools are on the rise that does not mean that video games are the culprit there is more of a link between parent,monetary, and social situations and crime in schools than video games in this subject. So in the end your arguments are simply subjective generalization and scapegoating on video games. http://www.bitmob.com... http://www.pbs.org... http://boards.ign.com... http://www.megaessays.com... http://www2.uwstout.edu... http://www.vancouversun.com...= I would like to point out one more thing , I never said that ""Crime rate since video games have ben out"" nor have I ever implied that all I had stated is that violence has been around since the dawn of civilization and that video games have nothing to do with it. I would once again like to thank my opponent for this debate."	CON	825
825	Seaa4281f-Aaf7ffd0a	"In relation to video games, it is wrong to tag people as a ""nerd"" by what game they play."	"Thank you smileydog for your addition to the debate. ******** ""For this debate I would like to know exactly what you mean when you say, ""it is wrong to tag people as 'nerd' by what game they play."""" Let me explain my position a little more: When I say ""it is wrong to tag someone as a nerd"", I'm suggesting that it is wrong to look at someone and classify them as a nerd. For example: You just found out that someone you know plays World of Warcraft. Since the game World of Warcraft has a history of ""nerds"" playing that game, as a stereotype, you look at that person as a nerd. ""In my opinion some could say that people are not only judged by the games they play and called nerds, but games are judged by the people who play them and the games could be known as nerdy games."" The way I see it (based on the above quote), you look at the situation as if the game is already a ""nerdy game"", and thus making the people who play that game nerds. However, your interpretation is incorrect. Go back to 2004, when the game WoW (World of Warcraft) was first released. Go back to 2004, when the game Doom 3 was released. Relate those two games, both of which released at the same time. Dropping all stereotypes towards either of those games, can you please explain to me how WoW could be looked at as a nerdy game and not Doom 3? WoW became, as you call it, a nerdy game because the people with tags (stereotypes) as nerds began to play the game. If people were not tagged as nerdy, there would not be nerdy games. If there were no nerdy games, the generic definition of a nerd would change. If the generic definition of a nerd changes, then stereotypes against them would not be so degrading. I quote twice: ""UrbanDictionary.com gives their own definition of a game nerd. Here is a part of it: ""A person who plays video games A LOT."" "" Now I do not know about you, but if someone told me I was someone who played video games a lot, I do not know if I would be that offended."" First off, I don't look at Urbandictionary.com as a reliable source when searching for a stereotype. This is because with a website as such where a page cannot be edited by anyone, you only get one person's definition of that particular term, in this case, nerd. Where as Wikipedia, multiple people edit, therefore you get multiple opinions from multiple people. Second, ""I do not know if I would be that offended."" Some people do not mind being called a nerd (in some cases use it as a compliment), but logically I would have to say a majority of gamers either don't want that tag, or are willing to defend themselves as to why they are not (see video again for defense). ""Now since these are popular games and people play them a lot, they are considered nerd games and the people who play them a lot are considered ""game nerds"" from the previous definition. Therefore not only are these people considered ""game nerds, but could also be considered ""nerds"" from other gamers and people who know that those games are popular."""". This quote really caught my attention for this reason: Every day millions of people play games such as World of Warcraft and Runescape, and are classified as nerds for doing so. However, millions of people every day play games such as Call of Duty, Halo, and Battlefield, yet these people aren't looked at as nerds because the people who play them usually aren't any of these: Unatractive, antisocial, and single-minded (http://en.wikipedia.org...). To me this seems completely stereotypical and wrong. ******* Thank you Pro for participating in the debate."	CON	826
826	S7f02efbf-A86c6a497	Playing violent video games make people more violent.	"Well, I would like to thank my opponents for having the debate for me, and also said would help me afterwards. I am very grateful. Now we enter the final round of the debate. Now, I would like to sum up my points, as well add a few points. 1. There have been studies at Harvard medical school that show there is no connection between video games (violent ones) and the acts of behavior. 2. We should have the mental capability to know right from wrong at all times. At no point in ANY violent video game does it tell you -"" now go to your school and kill your fellow classmates,"" 3. We must define the key words of the motion clearly. The word ""make"". Make can be defined as ""cause"", ""forcefully allow somebody to become sth."". However in the motion, there is no clear instructions or markings than show which meaning does make mean. But no matter what, a video game cannot CAUSE you, it may INFLUENCE you. Influence is a power affecting a person, thing, or course of events, especially one that operates without any direct or apparent effort. Therefore, yes, a video game CAN influence you to do bad things. BUT, they cannot CAUSE you to do things. you and you only can prevent yourself from doing things. for people to blame it on video games is an excuse to their mistake. This we should be bared in mind. 4. In life, there is nothing that can cause you to do something directly, without any other reason. Therefore, the reason of people being violent is actually more than just because playing violent video games. For example, family reason. Hence, we cannot just say that playing violent video games make people more violent. 5. Violent video games actually don't really do much in making people more violent. Let me give you a typical example. Have you ever watched Star Wars? Part of the content is quite violent. However, different people watching would result in different reactions. A young boy around 10 might jump around like a Jedi, slashing things in his sight. This is causing the boy to become violent. However as for a housewife, watching how the characters fight and fight, she would be bored to death and sleep eventually, rather than just being violent. 6. Also, it is not just about the player playing it habitually, but more than what it seems. It could be actually something before that caused him to be violent. Many of us have played violent video games, but do we see these people go around the streets beating people up or what. If it is so, the world would have been in a mess. 7. Moreover, it is not the violent video games that causes you to become violent, but actually yourself that causes a result in the end of the game. What do I mean? The thing is that what is your attitude when you play the game. Is it just for entertainment, meaning don't care how you play but just able to enjoy, or is it I must win the game, I'm gonna wipe out those zombies. If we carry a positive attitude at the beginning, for example I am just going to enjoy, not taking the characters in the game as idols. I know it is wrong to kill, but this is just a game, so no way of copying. If we carry such attitude, the ""making"", ""causing"" (whatever you call it) of people being violent would be reduced. Just as Spensor Johnson said in his book ""Fish"", choose your attitude. As writer Samuel Smiles said,""Sow a thought, and you reap an act; sow an act, and you reap a habit; sow a habit, and you reap a character; sow a character, and you reap a destiny"". This saying is very relative to what I just said. If we don't set a correct attitude, we might as think that killing is cool. There you have sown a thought. Eventually, just as what Samuel Smiles said, you reap a destiny. Therefore, you destiny would be causing a massacre or being violent. 8. Most important, it is essential for us to know the point of playing violent video games, just as what I said from above, whether you want to take playing it as just a relaxing game from stressful work, or is it a game that you want to put yourself into it so deeply, that you might end up at the point of addiction. So it is important for us to prioritise things in front of us. To conclude the three round debate, the most important thing is that we should clearly define the motion key words. Second of all, there is nothing that can make you be or do anything unless of a reasonable reason (except when the person has mental problems). Of what trouble that you got into is all because of yourself. It is us that we cannot control the noodles in our head to function properly, which we should be able to do. We should set up a true core value for ourselves, then from that, we can have a proper attitude and could decide things much more cautious and specific. From that, we won't end up thinking stupid ideas, twitching our minds to a world of messy logic, but on the other hand, follow the path that we have once set. Finally, we should be mindful of what we face. Just like the topic: violence. Violence is a no-good stuff, it could make you end up in jail or serious trouble. We should have the brain to identify what is what. We should also be able to ask ourselves why and Yes or No. Are violent materials good? Why should we follow that man in the game and go shooting around. Therefore, I must clearly state that violent video games don't make people more violent, but it is our brains that decides the decision of letting violent video games make us becoming more violent. Violent video games are only sources of reference and an influencing material, not the thing that physically or mentally make you more violent. And once again I have to thank my opponent for having this debate with me. It is a great opportunity for me to learn what I am weak at. Also I thank again for him agreeing to help me. I was wondering how you are going to help me with the points after the debate. Through this debate or what? But anyway, thanks a lot! :)"	CON	827
827	S75fbfa8d-A7ab189d2	Violent video games, banning of	I made my point and she gave up. taking away rights is wrong. you can't use a small % of the population to create laws for the majority. opinions of games does not lead to laws and arguing with your feelings and not statistics will nod sway minds	CON	828
828	S117d4c1a-Aee96c948	Violent video games really cause bad behavior in children.	"That is okay, just don't get all serious like some people do. LOL My Argument is: 1. A person over the age of seventeen is not an adolescent. 2. You probably have the mental capacity to not go crazy and kill people. 3. If you did go crazy and kill people you would probably blame your violent video games. LOL I am not saying that no one should play crazy violent video games because I have. Just should not get their hands on them, just like children shouldn't watch pornographic movies. (Well let just go with It, I'm not mad maybe I can get a few laughs out of this ""argument"".)"	PRO	829
829	Sca66140c-Aba61dc61	should video games be banned	but ABC mouse is kind of a game because it has game if you get your work done.Also we can just get rid of the bad and violent games and make more teaching and learning games.Thank you for debating with me!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!	CON	830
830	Sf3ba2c53-A93cac09a	Do you think video games are good for kids/teens!	Improves education in kids. In the last few years, one game in particular has dominated the industry in a way never seen before, drawing players into worlds of their own design for literally hours on end. Minecraft has sold millions of copies and its success shows no sign of slowing down, but for those of you who are worried about fans spending hours watching Youtube videos of others playing the game, research has demonstrated that the educational benefits of Minecraft are almost limitless in scope. Very helpful towards kids, simply to help them get over problems. Video games increase imagination, hand-eye coordination, and give them a vast amount of creativity. Technology is growing and being a fan of video games lead to wanting to be in that industry and that helps them keep on track with technology.	PRO	831
831	S309f302e-A21234cff	all night video games	https://www. Debate. Org/help/articles/how-to-add-a-youtube-video/	CON	832
832	Sc3b79282-A620f901b	are video games good for teens	but with that many kids a in fact lower than average but they could learn in these game without knowing it such as me. i am average but some games help me learn new things.	PRO	833
833	Saf4a656-A1d2de7b6	Resolved: Video Games should not have sequels as a matter of principle	I thank my opponent for his response. Framework I accept the BoP. I must show that video games should not have sequels as a matter of principle. My opponent need only negate what I say effectively. As for conetentions and such, I am fairly new to Public Forum debate and do not quite understand. I will argue them, but would be much appreciative if Con enlightened me a bit on how to format this to his liking. Contention 1a - Video games are an art form. I accept this. Contention 1b - Art uses sequels effectively. I agree that some works of art can have sequels which are effective and provide depth. However, this number pales in comparison to the monsters created by lazy game developers. For example, as my opponent mentioned, Toy Story was an amazing trilogy which touched many. But could the same be said for Ice Age? (Whose fourth installment recently has brought the series to all-time low.) Or what about the original Die Hard versus its slew of lackluster sequels? The point I'm making here is that, while sequels can be beneficial, they also aren't most of the time. Combine this with my evidence showing that a lack of new IP is hurting the gaming industry, and you see that video games should not have sequels, as a rule of thumb. It's quite simple. Contention 2a - Video game sequels allow for a wider audience to be attracted to an IP over time. I completely agree, but new IP has been shown to attract new gamers to the industry as a whole. However, while COD is wallowing in its growing hordes of fans, and its increasing notoriety among parents, one cannot deny that the industry is on the decline as a whole. More gamers are being attracted to IP such as COD and Halo, but less and less are gaming at all. Is this really what's best for gaming? Contention 2b - A large audience engenders a large sense of community. I will concede this contention. Conclusion As we can see, my points still stand. For reasons such as repetitive IP trashing the name of the industry, and for the dying industry due to a lack of new IP, video games should not have sequels as a matter of principle.	PRO	834
834	Sc25c7b05-A49715d2d	Video gaming is good for Brain	You argued that playing video games increases our concentration, hand-eye coordination, etc. But do these benefits outweigh the many dangers of playing video games? According to http://katiecouric.com..., you can literally become more addicted to video games than the drug heroine, and the merciless killing explained in violent video games can single-handedly turn a person into a ruthless homicide. And with video game addiction and video games by themselves comes many more psychological dangers proven here: http://m.youtube.com... www.youtube.com/watch?v=iBBeyjeoisw Sorry the actual videos are not in my argument. I don't know how to post them in arguments like that yet.	CON	835
835	S35cf0a2c-A614ecccb	Video Games: Indie games are more enjoyable than larger, more expensive games.	"Pro has stated that they have personally found indie games more enjoyable than games such as fallout or GTA V. Indie Versus AAA I didn't put the definition for AAA games in my last post so here it is. AAA: ""In the video game industry, AAA (pronounced ""triple A"") or Triple-A is a classification term used for games with the highest development budgets and levels of promotion or the highest ratings by a consensus of professional reviewers."" All of these arguments I would assume then also lend themselves to MMO's, so if you're an MMO fan you're with me! With this statement I will begin. My points are as follows: 1. Personal Preference 2. Immersive Factor 3. Replay Value 4. Character Development 5. Funding 6. Story Curves 7. Popularity 1. Personal preference. I thought I'd start with this as this is where Pro's statement lies. I personally enjoy both as it is a case for case basis. To ""critique"" these games fallout 4 (I will guess) and GTA 5 are two games that Pro has mentioned. Since these two are only two of the AAA games out there keep in mind this is a case for case. Personally I enjoy open worlds more than indie (Fallout, GTA) but that is just me. I will use these two games in my arguments when I can. 2. Immersive factor. Possibly the most important factor when deciding whether to buy a game or not is it's ability to create a realistic world for you to spend your time in. Indie games just don't have this quality, there is no way they could. Indie games are very small, short and the characters aren't as fleshed out and that is okay but not when it comes to the immersion factor. Fallout 4, GTA 5, Skyrim and the like are popular because of their open world, driven story and fleshed out characters. for this argument the open world adds the most to the immersive factor. Want to spend a night in Whiterun stealing all the innkeepr's mead? How about a night in the wasteland grasping for survival? Indie games just can't build a whole world for us. 3. Replay Value. The replay value is my second biggest factor when I decide whether to buy a game or not. Indie games usually do not have this but I may be wrong (again case for case basis). Games such as Mass effect (bringing in my own example) are rich in replay value, I know myself I played various times to test out the paragon option, the renegade, the male actor, the female and the different romance options. Again this is above and beyond of what most indie games can do. 4. Character Development. Who else went ""What the f..."" when bioshock infinite ended? The whole story had you caring about Elizabeth and eventually the bond turned into a father and (spoiler) bond. You know what I'm saying. What about The last of us? Or perhaps mass effect when you had to choose between Kaden and Ashley? Heart wrenching moments and that is only because of great character development. Of course it isn't the indie game's fault but they have 2 D characters for a reason, they fit the short time of the game. Where as for AAA games you build a bond to the characters across many hours, you get a sense of their ambitions, their goals, their personality and the like. You can relate to them and that is a big win for AAA games. Also characters can change and progress thanks to the many hours of game time they have to work with. Lara Croft's tomb raider was perhaps the most extreme case I've seen of this (although closely fallowed by Far Cry 3). She changes from innocent architect to hellbent survivor and you play through her change. That is a very special moment for gaming when you can feel yourself being the character. 5. Funding. This one is pretty cut and dry. AAA games just have more money to work with which leads to better graphics, sound, etc. etc. Personally I think you can make a good game without lots of funding but it definitely helps. 6. Story Curves. This blends in with character development as the curve of the story changes the character but can also lend itself to other games. Mass Effect for example, the curve in the story had you make hard choices that had real consequences for you and the characters. Since you care about these characters it makes for an epic experience. (Mass Effect 2 Suicide mission I'm looking at you. I thought Legion couldn't die, I have never been so wrong.) 7. Popularity. There is a reason why AAA games are at the peak of gaming and that is because they are popular. I personally don't like shooters but there is a reason they came out every one to two years and that is because people buy them. No other explanation for this. Well this about wraps up my arguments. I have played indie games and I do enjoy them but I just believe they are good quick games for waiting in between AAA releases. AAA games just bring so much more to the table. Before I hand it over to Pro I am going to state why we play video games. According to www.huffingtonpost.com the reason we play games is for the story (they used bioshock infinite as an example), the characters (used last of us), they give us a consequence and reward system that real life can't offer (Mass effect), distract us and give us hope to solve problems (Angry birds), and increase brain efficiency (Tetris). I would add in that it also removes stress by allowing us to take a break from this world and live in another. AAA games do this better than any indie could, so I am safe to assume that we enjoy them more because the represent the essence of why we play video games in the first place. To wrap it up I'd like to say that AAA games bring people together to move towards one goal, create competition, reduce stress, provide social interactions with people who you would never meet otherwise and allow a full level of enjoyment. That said over to you Pro, good luck! Source: http://www.huffingtonpost.com..."	CON	836
836	S26c1a43e-A544bf5be	Physical games vs Digital games	"Those are some good points for digital games, So now I will present my points of why I don't like them and prefer physical games I tried the digital games and after one year I do not like them and here are the reasons why 1. I do not like having my Internet on to play these games. My Internet to the Playstation is ALWAYS off, And the reason for that is that having the Internet on is like leaving your front door open to your house and then going to work. Anyone can just walk in, Steal what they want and leave. Well the Internet is the same way, Anyone can hack in and copy, Manipulate or just install viruses on your hard drive while you are not paying attention or are away. And the worst part is the WHOLE WORLD has access to it. I know because I was a hacker, I know how easy it is to hack into someone""s computer/console. So if you don""t mind that, Than leave your front door of your house open too when you go to work. Maybe nothing will be stolen but do you take that chance? And in order to play the digital download games you must be connected to the Internet, I have tried to disconnect the Internet and play a downloaded game, And they don""t work. But a hard copy disk, You don""t need to be connected, You will get a message that you are off line, But I just say ""ok who cares"" 2. I do not need to be tracked by developers and my progress recorded for their surveys and market research, What I do in a game that I purchase is my business, I don""t need to be tracked. 3. Digital download games can be some of the worst games in the world. Any crappy Indy game, That is just a piece of digital garbage is available for digital download. Where a disk copy of a game is released by a publisher, Cover art is used on the case, It goes through rigorous screening and only AAA games are usually released, Garbage games can be released on digital download, Crap games like ""Shovel Knight, Super Meat Boy"" and of course The Witness. The Witness is ABSOLUTELY the worst video game I have ever played in my life! When I first read all the reviews, They conned me with their propaganda of this being a 9/10 games by reviewers, BUT you could only get it as a digital download. See at the time I didn""t know that reviews of digital download games are not the same reviews as hard disk games. Digital download games can be the worst garbage released on-line and people will give it great reviews because they enjoy crap games and they will push their crappy games (mostly developers of the garbage) in order for you to get the game. It doesn""t matter how crappy the Indy garbage is the reviews will be great, And after you part with your money and realize the game is crap, It""s too late they already have your money. Where hard disk games go through a rigorous process of screening by publishers to make sure the game is good and that it will sell or they will lose money, So only the best of the best games are released on hard disk. And that is the games that I love best. They have tutorials, Instructions, And are player friendly, Where a player can enjoy their experience and try to finish a game. Unlike the brain dead Indy games for video gamer hacks who will play for 10 minutes because of lack of attention span or ADHD or play a crap game without any instructions like you are expected to read the developers mind (The Witness). Indy games that are released as digital download are for the most part just crap, Rushed out by developers who need a money surge back in order to keep paying their staff, So anything crappy will do. Unfortunately I have learned this the hard way by getting swayed by crap reviews for the worst game in the world in The Witness. This game is not available on hard disk, Gees I wonder why? Because no publisher would publish garbage like this, Because no real developer would call this a real video game (more of a mind exercise). It""s for all the reasons above why I""m leaving the digital download game world. I tried it for a year and it""s not for me. When I buy a disk game, I play it, I finish it and I take it back and get half the money back for it to buy a new game. Plus I""m not tracked on line, And I don""t need to leave the front door of my house open. And finally I don""t need to play crap, Half assed video experiments that some crack developers will call great video games, Like the crappy ""The Witness. "" So I""m going back to my hard, Disk games, I miss holding that blue case with a disk in it. At least I know it""s going to be a great game!"	CON	837
837	Se6270ff-Ac293c8fd	Video Games do not Cause Violence	"I can't help but laugh at the sources you've provided me. ""Journal of Youth and Adolescence? Gamepolitics.com?"" Let me make it very clear right now. You can't PROVE that video games affect someone's mentality to make them become violent. Not unless you could somehow read their minds. What we can do, however, is study people's reactions to violent games. I suppose you'll brush it off, and say it was mere ""chance"" that the murderers, one of which was eight years old at the time, just happened to kill others. Where do you think they learned how to use a gun? This eight year old probably thought his caretaker would just ""respawn"" or something. But that's not real life. People could be curious to find out what it's really like to shoot someone. Maybe for the ""high"" feeling of adrenaline before you kill an innocent person, or maybe just for the fun of it. Because they feel like it. You must also realize that it isn't always other people they are hurting. You can be violent towards yourself. Cyberbullying can take place over online chat streams. There was even a 13 year old who jumped out of a building because he was trying to reenact a scene from the game. There is also the case of frustration and addiction. These aren't the fault of the game itself, but are definitely caused by it. To present some figures: The latest Black Ops game has more than 920million hours played on it. That's over a hundred thousand years. People aren't thinking of what the game actually has in question. It's just a virtual figure. It can't hurt, right? After all, it's just a little relief from the stress of work. But then they get addicted. They lose the game over and over again. They're fired from work because they took so many days off to play the latest Grand Theft Auto, and the few days they do show up, all they're thinking about is strategies to kill the latest Alien NPC. They start thinking of the game as real, because they prefer it to real life. The main characters become their role models. To be honest, it looks like you're just hiding behind the ""there's no solid proof."" Well, there CAN be no solid proof, even if we repeat it a billion times. There can only be what's almost definitely correct and what is almost definitely incorrect. Take a look online. There are so many cases that if I copied and pasted them all then I'd crush the word limit. The evidence is staring you in the face."	CON	838
838	Sd08d61c8-A7318cd8f	Video games are benifical to people of every age.	"frist of all have you ever debated you keep the same points the hole debate. Also the more info and the more sources you have the more proof you have. The voters must see that I have provided you with many sources we my oppent has given you barely any at most. Therefor you must look to see who has the side of proof. You say that games help to stop the growing obesity problem. How can they stop the problem when they were the one of the problems that started it. These games have you sitting in your living room your bed room well any room staring at a tv screen and sitting in a chair or something like it. I have given you examples apon example of sciencist that have studied this problem and have found that Playing Video games can cause you to gain wieght 3/5 kids did gain over 15 pounds by playing videogames for you sitt there and you most likely will get food and you will not notice what you are eating and how much. Their for if this does hurt our kids why are we willing to put these childeren thru this wy not teach them to get excirse to get healthy to get into sports. I am not saying that i know how to raise kids better but i am say off of countless sciencists saying the same thing playing videogames most likely will make you fat. If a child does have a violent yes i agree they can get a little more angry but as Dr. Craig A. Anderson, Ph.D., of Iowa State University in Ames, and his colleagues looked at how children and teen's video game habits at one time point related to their behavior three to six months later. They found out In every group, children who were exposed to more video game violence did become more aggressive over time than their peers who had less exposure. This was true even after the researchers took into account how aggressive the children were at the beginning of the study -- a strong predictor of future bad behavior. There are many others reseachers that have also found this but this is the most resent. Childerent that watch and play these games start to internalize the message that the world is a hostile place. Therefor they begin to become desensitized to violence. Huesmann said. ""Once you're emotionally numb to violence, it's much easier to engage in violence."" . Therefor we will be creating a more violent generation. My opponet says things about that they are becoming smaller I don't see the revelity to the topic therefor you can not look to that agrument for it has nothing to do with the topic. He also says that it is because of these video games are the reason that we have more technologe um no it is because of hard working people that work their tails off to keep us in the 21st century. Ok he also states that it helps with social life, he states ""Of course you don't know who they are!"" How safe is that um not really you don't know who they are they could be a person that wants to hurt you or it good be a good person you can never know they lie all the time. It is just simply not safe. And the example that he gave is just one example I can also give you one to. One of my friends sister was on the xbox live were she found who she thought was the guy that she had a crush on but it turned out that it was his uncle who had hurt some woman but the cops did find before anythign happen but even if he hadn't been caught and he was who he saided he was it still was a risk that she thought was a safe one. 4/9 of people find people that they think is someone that they know when it turns out to be some one totally dfferent. And 5/8 of those people get hurt by those people who they think is some one they know. I would just like to say before i go on that tvann5m has all thru his agrument has made rude and unessary comments to me. The voters must look at that and take that into account. For being rude you can not trust and believe and a debate that is really imporant. So if he can't show respect towards me then how can you trust him? You can't. I agree with his point that it can teach them to save money but he states ""It takes countless hours to get this armour from which you get through a mini game. You have to kill monsters that come from a portal which you have to destroy(a total of three in the mini game), and to protect the void knight. I'll also site on of the maney caountless ways of making money(more common to the free players of the game) in the game. Which is killing giants and geting there big bones which can be sold for a decent amount of money.This also techs kids to be the best they can because there are lots of people trying to get money this way so there is competiton just like in the job market who ever has the better resume(stats in game) gets the job."" Thru that whole thing it just says voilence. Ok so you have to sell someones bones to get money. More violence we are only teaching those kids to be more violent thru these games. Then he states that you don't have to sit down, ok what else are they supposed to do stand up? Then he says you don't have to all day no you don't. But after awhile you get you get addicted and soon you can do it all day. I would like to say at this time that my oppent has change his case twice now and in a debate you try to keep you debate case the same, well I have and I have proven my points over and over again I have given you many sources that agree with me, and my oppent has only given a few. I do prove thru my words and by others and just to note that these people are not doing my work for me I just just using that stuff that they have proven thru reseached. I didn't ask for him to have examples I just said that he had no proof he didn't have to I just stated. He also said that he would provide examples if asked and so I don't know why he is getting so mad that he has to do work. lol jk I have given you strong agrument that have stood up to his agrument easily once agian they are 1. Practicing violent acts may contribute more to aggressive behavior than passive television watching 2.Over-dependence on video games could foster social isolation. 3.In many violent games, players must become more violent to win I have proven my first two the whole way. He didn't touch my third argument so there for that goes thru with no questions. and he has given so many agrument i don't think that he knows who many he has and he hasn't proven those agruments as well as I have. Say that this ok is saying it is ok to do violent things and it is ok just to lay around the house.We need to say that it is ok to be heathly and it is good to meet knew people face to face and not thru a computer. You need to vote con not just becuase I say so but because I have shown you three ways that this can and will be bad. VOTE CON!!! lol I did that for fun"	CON	839
839	S69bf66d1-Aeb7609b8	Anita Sarkeesian and Women in Video Games	I'm not saying it isn't getting better mind you, it is, but it's still there and it's still a very big problem. Aside from a few notable exceptions, games are predominantly marketed to a heterosexual male market, even though an estimate 45% of gamers are female[1]. Females characters in games are often sexualized and serve to titalize a male audience, and most only serve as shallowly written characters who serve as nothing more than an object to be won or gawked at for the male protagonist[2]. Again, there are always exceptions and this isn't always the case, but unfortunately it more often than not is. Even though there might be some things that Sarkeesian says which we might not agree with, she does challenge this very real issue. She's also probably one of the few commentators to bring real attention to the whole problem. The point of my second paragraph was to illustrate that Sarkeesian's Internet pseudo-notoriety was given to her by the people who hated her. I'd also like to point out that even though I believe that the people who attacked and harassed Sarkeesian represented a small part of the gaming community, that's still a pretty sizable group of people. Thousands of individuals said some pretty terrible stuff to her, and it wasn't just confined to Youtube. A flash game where you could beat up an image of Sarkeesian's face was even made in response to her Kickstarter campaign, though it was quickly taken down[3]. Even more ironic is the fact that she might not have even gotten as much money for her project had it not been all the attention it got because of the criticism, she only asked for $6,000 but ended up with $150,000. Consequently, the harsh backlash against Sarkeesian had made having a real discussion on the matter next to impossible because people with genuine criticisms of Anita's views end up getting bunched up with the more sexist elements of nerd culture. Also, the anonymity offered by the Internet is no justification for such insults, and whether or not they are shocking is totally subjective. I, for one, think they are obscene and shocking, and that the people who posted them are no better than any other cyber bully. The legality of such threats and activities are questionable enough, but they were definitely against Youtube's terms of use[4]. Sarkeesian is perfectly in her right to do what she wants with her video and was justified in blocking comments to it. Sources: [1]http://www.theesa.com... [2]http://www.slate.com... [3]http://www.escapistmagazine.com... [4]http://www.youtube.com...	PRO	840
840	S6925d38c-A12195f42	Should children be allowed to play video games on a daily basis	My second reason to believe that children should be allowed to play video games on a daily basis is because of like on summer or Christmas vacation or any break they need something to do besides play outside or read or play board games all the time too much exercise can possibly lead to dehydration.	PRO	841
841	S3b7f3588-Af5d177c	The Way video games are demonized in the news	The news does show a good point. Now most of the popular game includes killing or sports. People are just trying to stat that these games are not that great. This is putting an allusion that killing is fun. That is total bad because there are so many gun jokes and threats. Why its because these games are turning them into it. At least sports games can make them fit or have a fantasy dream team. Games are also additive and cause headaches. It is just putting other peoples thoughts out there. You can get a column that supports it if your that desperate. This is why the news does not matter.	PRO	842
842	Scc6490a7-Ae7c1331a	Playing video games promote creativity more than reading a book	"Don't worry, I am not very good at debates. Any ways, Video games are fun entertaining devices that aid people in enjoying their day, while overcoming various challenges and storyline. The definition of video game is: ""an electronic game in which players control images on a television or computer screen"". A book is a ""A set of written, printed, or blank pages fastened along one side and encased between protective covers."" http://www.merriam-webster.com... ""http://www.thefreedictionary.com...; In a book, you follow the story on a main character, or many main characters, and minor characters. In reading a book, you learn new vocabulary, and think of possible stories, however those stories are very similar to stories already told. So you don't exactly become creative, but you create stories that are already made, but by fusing or tweaking a previous story. In a video game, you over come various challenges, and learn from a smart interesting story line. However there are also games like minecraft and animal crossing where you create your own world. In these games, you challenge your creativity, and create amazing things. Basically, I am trying to explain that in a book, you follow one story created by someone else. In a video game, you create your own story, you create your own world, you construct. Sometimes you also follow stories, and find ways to overcome challenges that may come your way. And you find a variety of creative ways to overcome these challenges."	PRO	843
843	Se362974a-Ae85af051	Video Games have made a positive impact on our everyday lives.	Video Games are the source of many positive things in our lives, such as technology advancements and entertainment, and are not just a waste of time. I'll prove it later.	PRO	844
844	Sfcd65ea3-A6d1b9a9b	computer games are good for us	"I agree with you in the sense that it can end up taking too much of one's time. But that does not make the video games inherently bad. The saying goes, ""too much of anything is bad."" You then seem to only be talking about violent and online video games. But in your original argument, you only state computer games. with such a broad scope it is nearly impossible to argue. I simply counter your argument by saying that even violent video games are bad as you claim, not computer games are bad. There are many educational games and games that can positively stimulate the brain."	PRO	845
845	Sf47d4ad1-A4dc1d607	In general, violence in video games has not caused real-world violence.	As lannan13 requested, I have changed the resolution to: In general, violence in video games has not caused real-world violence. I look forward to a great debate!!	PRO	846
846	Se406e709-Ad9f48b18	Dave Ramsey should be the focus of a new era of financial video games.	"Pro suggests a change to the phrasing of the subject to ""Should Dave Ramsey be incorporated into a video game."" This ""rephrasing"" means literally changing the subject itself. It is not possible to change the subject of a debate. By changing the criteria and/or the subject of the debate, the opposing's side's stand on the subject will naturally differ. If the Pro wishes to debate around a different subject, he/she will have to start a new debate. Proposing a theme for a single game is something completely different to proposing an entire genre of games, even an era of games based on the same theme. The two sentences have completely different meanings. This is why I do not accept the rephrasing. The two arguments given in the First Round are thus still valid. I accept the Tony Hawk series as a successful genre, and if required, I am sure Dave Ramsey's company could support this project. But why would they focus an entire era of video games on Dave Ramsey? Arguments 1) and 2) extended to Round 2."	CON	847
847	S1f98e1f8-A516bcc0b	playing sports is way better than sitting at home and playing video games	you have got to be a loser if all you do is sit in your house and play video games. you have to go out there and play sports to be a healthy person	PRO	848
848	S9af99515-A890a8ec	should kids under age 12 play violent video games	I Believe that kids under 12 should not play violent video games because it can cause violence to influence kids minds and that would change the life of a family and the kids.	CON	849
849	S6714f378-A6046f500	video game violence	First and foremost, it's necessary to recognize that saying video games may increase the violent tendencies in some does not in any way mean to suggest that if you play violent video games you will invariably become a violent person. However, this does not mean that most will be unaffected, either. Even if only subtley, violent video games do in fact increase violent tendencies. Studies have shown that not only do violent video games produce an increased amount of emotional arousal, even when compared to similarly exciting but less violent video games, but that they also result in a decrease in brain activity in areas involving self control. One must also consider how younger children are much more easily influenced. Repetition is a key step in learning, and children are exposed again and again to violent actions with little or no consequences. Again, while not always, this does have potential to increase their own violent behavior--maybe not beating up any kid that looks at them, but possibly being more aggressive or reckless. And I do not disagree that a lot of this is dependent on young children playing games suited for an older audience, something that would not occur with more strict parental regulation. But seriously, let's be realistic--parents simply do not regulate things like video games to the extent they should.	CON	850
850	Sa879b165-A396dde5c	Are Violent video games like CoD bad for younger children?(<12)	I do agree to that, but even parents can misjudge. Violent video games are different, than, say, 'Southpark'. SOme children might apply the game in reality and try something that can hurt themselves or others. Also, parents can only do so much. The children can still play these kinds of games at friends' houses, etc. (Also, are you a professional on this topic, as I need to write an essay for school and need to use quotes from experts.)	CON	851
851	S55e10797-Ad1258e8f	Resolved: Violent video games cause increased aggressive behavior	However, I play video games, and I am not aggressive. This means that pro is WRONG!!!!!1111 ljdds ljf fdfdfddffdfd	CON	852
852	Sbaa6345c-A6a5f462	Violent Video Games Lead to Real Violence (First Debate)	"Well, it is definitely the case that violent video games lead to violence in real life due to the fact that it encourages new ideas to try illegal things which are seen as ""cool"" by teenagers. For example, the violent 18+ video game, which is played by those much younger too, show that speeding cars and not following rules is fun and thrilling. This leads to people trying this in real life..."	PRO	853
853	S564e80bc-Abbabc2dc	the government should ban violent video games to kids and adolescent	I would like to testify my con's response because violent video games change your temper, and when you loose your temper you will go crazy.	PRO	854
854	S564e80bc-A7307a061	the government should ban violent video games to kids and adolescent	I ask pro to elaborate his argument and, since he has the burden of proof, ask him for evidence suggesting violent video games cause violent behaviour.	CON	855
855	S4bc8e970-A8e69b9ed	Modern Video games have little to no sexism Change My mind	I have been a part of the gaming Subculture for 15 years when my mother first bought me a ps1 (Play Station One) back in the early 2000's threw out my time I have played multiple types of games. Adventure, Movie licensed, RPG, FPS etc. Threw out my years later in the modern age of gaming. There were accusations of video games being sexist. I believe this is false. GTA is an example that comes up often. I believe GTA is just representing what is in the real world. There are prostitutes there is a Strip club. If anything it just insulates what's wrong with the real world more then just saying it's sexist. Also, Video games have proven multiple times now especially in the modern era there are multiple female characters in gaming that can take care of themselves. That also doesn't come into the damsel in distress trope. If they do it will be thrown obvious means. Example, They're outnumbered, The foe is currently too strong for them to fight and eventually might overcome. I would love for someone to debate this with me civilly and I will look forward to your reply.	PRO	856
856	S6ae0ed12-Aba0ac796	Video Gaming Should Be a Sport	Video gaming should be a sport because there are other games that are sports such as chess and people hire professional coaches to help them get better at video games and also people go to tournaments for video games at many gaming conventions	PRO	857
857	S5ee22d2a-A3a3dba70	Should schools have video games	I see your point but am sorry to say that school is not meant to be spent playing games. If the games are educational, like games on an Ipad, then I say that is ok. But other than that school, is sort of meant to not have fun things but more of the different possibilities of learning. Kids need school to know things that will help them all together.	CON	858
858	S1ff4635e-Af45f5a5d	Ban on sale of violent video games to minors	In fact my response did not provide contradictory evidence and here is why... I stated that these games cause a much stronger response in people who are already violent. This is not contradictory to the point i am trying to make because to prove that the violent video games make kids violent there needs to be a certain level of innocents before the games are played. All i stated was violent people will find violent games more fun and it will look they they are becoming more aggressive then they already are, when in truth they are just venting their aggressive emotions by playing these games creating a correlation between games and violent but simply does not prove in anyway a causation link. Your next argument is somewhat of a straw-man for the fact that there are a number of different things that can cause anti social behavior, as well the topic of the debate is to ban violent videogames. You would not be able to just ban violent ones based on anti social behavior because the games which cause that behavioral change are usually not ones that are violent, they are ones that provide an alternate life where people are social in that life and forget about the real one. Violent videogames such as war games and fighting games do not have nearly the same effect on those behaviors (e.g World of warcraft, everquest) Once again correlation links and not justification for legislation. I appeal to the voters now by once again laying out the claim that I have bested my opponent in every round for these reasons. The burden of proof lied with pro position because of the fact this deals with the taking away of personal liberties. With out good science any claim is just speculation and thus without the proof of science in this matter there is no harm in the status quo The amount of evidence does not make for a sound argument. Proof by verbosity is a commonly used logical fallacy where the amount of evidence presented is held to a higher standard than that of quality information. In making my case I have been accurate to the point and made a precise argument on why restricting personal liberties without a good reason is wrong. My opponent has provided bad science which is full of subjective holes which once again accurately describes his argument structure. My opponent hardly refuted any of my claims of bad science and thus he has conceded to the fact that the studies that make up the data for this debate are poorly constructed and can not be liked as a causal reaction but merely a simple correlation. i have read somewhere that There is a link between shark attacks and ice cream. This is not because sharks start attacking in response to ice cream, but because the two variables exhibit a common response to the warm season. Another example is strong correlation exists between the number of cavities in elementary school children and their vocabulary size. No one advocates eating more candy to increase knowledge though; these variables are both tied with age. This is how my opponents whole argument has been lied out and simply falls apart at minor scrutiny	CON	859
859	S3a5eaf06-Ac6e12ab1	This House believes that violence in video games directly leads to real-world violence	"New research suggests that hours of exposure to violent media like video games can make kids react in more hostile ways compared to ones who don't spend lots of time controller-in-hand, reigniting the debate about children and gaming. [1] In theory, when someone becomes excessively submerged in some sort of activity, either mental or physical, they begin having a sequence of recurring flashbacks and lapses that can cause them to assimilate what they have seen and experienced in the particular activity. This is not only true in theory, but it has also been set in motion in practice. It has been scientifically accepted that overindulgence in any activity, whether it is binge-drinking or playing gold, can have a directly detrimental effect on your life in ways that are unexpected and haphazard. A definitive example of this is the Columbine shooting, in which two kids embarked on a deadly rampage at their high school. These two kids were, and I do not intend for this to be taken lightly, 'hard-core gamers' who have been enraptured in the M-rated game Call of Duty since they were small children. After playing the game for almost a decade, these children were subconsciously inclined to emulate the synthetic role of the players into reality. The Columbine shooting is not a single manifestation of the effects of extended artificial violence. There exist many statistics that show a direct correlation between gory violence in video games and real-world violence. I'd like to project one very objective trend: The amount of mass-shootings and indiscriminate killings has expanded to a large degree ever since the gaming industry has expanded to homes across the globe, and has become mainstream in much of the developed countries in America. The kids who were implicated into the Columbine shootings were not just involved with an aggressive gaming addiction but instead, the gaming addiction had bled into other negative interests such as metal music and gothic subculture. Recently, legislators have made a seminal move in taxing violent video games and decreeing a proposition for enforcing age-restrictions towards who can buy them. The uprise of the gaming industry has even prompted President Obama to address the concern by making this statement to an interviewer: '...violent video games set kids up to react in more hostile and violent ways.' I'd like to summarize with a quote from an article published by the Times Magazine. ""Working with 3,034 boys and girls in the third, fourth, seventh, and eighth grades in Singapore, Anderson and his colleagues asked the children three times over a period of two years detailed questions about their video game habits. They were also given standardized questionnaires designed to measure their aggressive behavior and attitudes toward violence. Overall, the students"" scores on aggressive behavior, as well hostile attitudes and fantasies about violence against others, declined slightly throughout the study. That""s because children tend to act less aggressively as they get older, and learn more mature ways of dealing with conflicts than lashing out. But a closer look at kids who played more hours of violent video games per week revealed increases in aggressive behavior and violent tendencies, compared to those who played fewer hours a week. When asked if it was okay for a boy to strike a peer if that peer said something negative about him, for example, these kids were more likely to say yes. They also scored higher on measures of hostility, answering that they would to respond with aggressive action when provoked, even accidentally. The more long-term gamers were also more likely to fantasize about hitting someone they didn""t like."" [1] http://time.com..."	PRO	860
860	S8f36df61-A67303e82	Should kids play more than 3 hours of video games a day	People play video games more than three hours a day. Some experts state that it rots your brain.	PRO	861
861	Saf4a656-A54eff24c	Resolved: Video Games should not have sequels as a matter of principle	As a short note to my opponent the whole “PF style” thing was just an offhand comment, lol. Nothing really about the debate itself, just following the rules. But I digress: I will first begin by addressing framework, then moving to Pro’s case, and then jumping back to my own. Framework Please note that Pro has accepted the framework presented by me. He has explicitly agreed to bear the entire BOP, but has also dropped my specific framework, that he needs to prove “that the video game industry should not make sequels for video games across the board (and thereby following the rule governing its behavior, as the definition of ‘principle,’ stipulates),” or else he has lost the debate. Because he has dropped this, extend this argument from last round, and flow it to me through the end of the debate. This is because Pro did not address it in R3, and, per the rules, attempting to bring in a new argument on framework in R4 would be abuse. Therefore, my framework stands, and Pro must prove that the entire industry should not have sequels entirely across the industry. Pro’s Case Contention 1 - Call of Doody Judges, this contention is largely irrelevant and must be flowed out of the debate for a number of reasons. First and foremost, although Pro does try and provide some impact with this contention, ultimately, any possible impact of video game sequels rests solely on the assumption that Pro’s own personal feelings about the game: namely, that it is not only a poor quality series, but is also bad for the name and reputation of video games. However, this impact also fails because Pro offers no relevant statistics or proof that the reputation of Call of Duty, let alone video games at large, is being diminished specifically because of the prevalence of Call of Duty sequels. Additionally, Pro has not provided any sort of link by which to judge this impact. He talks about how the reputation of video games are trashed by sequels, but doesn’t give a link between reputation and the “health” of the industry, if you will. Further, he here has failed to actually define WHAT a healthy industry looks like. Further, even if this could in theory be proved, Pro has failed to demonstrate that the impact of this contention is strong enough to fulfill his BOP and the framework. What I mean by this is that although, assuming the above issues ARE resolved, Pro has still ultimately failed to demonstrate why the shortcomings of a single game series’ sequels warrants an across-the-board cessation of sequel-creation. In short judges, upon reflection, you must find that Pro’s first contention is not strong enough to stand. Contention 2 - Lack of imagination leads to stagnation. Now, judges, when looking at this contention, once again you should see that Pro fails to meet his mandate according to the framework, and even the BOP. First, Pro makes the mistake of conflating correlation with causation. He presents two trends, and immediately declares a causal link. However, as it should be known logically, correlation does not automatically indicate causation. Unless Pro can prove a direct causal link, this contention should be considered too weak to stand and irrelevant immediately, and ignored. However, even if you accept a potential causal link, as Pro does attempt to demonstrate by throwing a source at the correlation to call it a causation, the contention still fails for a simple reason: the impact of this contention is overblown and nonunique to video game sequels. Indeed, applying the very same source Pro used, the article acknowledges the fact that, while there is an illusion of stagnation, the fact of the matter is that it is widely accepted within the industry, and by the article itself, that any stagnation we might see is cyclical, in that as a console generation reaches its end, developers tend to stick to established IPs. However, similarly, with each new generation, there is a boom in new IP [1]. What this ultimately means is that this contention, and the resolution itself, is nonunique, in that any issue with a prevalence will ultimately be solved with each new generation of video game console, meaning that there is no reason to affirm the resolution at all, let alone the fact that is, per the framework, fairly drastic. But lastly, this contention fails for another reason on top of all this: Pro does not link video game sequels with a lack of imagination in any explicit capacity, relying on what seems to be only an implicit link. This is insufficient, and, because this link is crucial to the integrity of the contention, the contention must be considered failed. However, offensively, cross-apply my impact from Contention 1a of my case. Indeed, affirming the resolution if anything would create a lack of imagination, imposing an arbitrary restriction on an, at heart, artistic community/industry. In short, Pro’s case ultimately falls apart upon close analysis, having insufficiently provided either large enough impacts to warrant affirmation, insufficiently demonstrated these impacts, or simply insufficiently provided clear enough links within his own case to reasonably affirm. My Case My framework has already been covered above. Contention 1a - Video games are an art form, and should be treated as such. Extend this argument through the debate, as Pro accepts. Contention 1b - Art uses sequels effectively, and so do video games. Pro fails to effectively rebut this point in that he implicitly places the BOP on me to show that art uses sequels effectively all of the time, whereas in reality, the debate has been agreed to be framed the opposite way. Now, Pro makes use of far too many generalizing statements, declaring that most sequels are of poor quality. However, not only is this a weak and unsubstantiated thing to do in and of itself, but it also entirely misses the point of this contention. Because, as Con, I am to negate the resolution, the point of this contention was to demonstrate a strong capacity for art to use sequels effectively, which, through Pro’s verbage, seems to have been the case. The impact of this contention is that if we are to value video games as art, as in C1A, then it is restricting to affirm the resolution in the face of such capacity for effective sequels. Therefore, extend this argument. Contention 2a - Video games allow for a wider audience... Pro’s response to this contention, judges, is weak. He agrees with the contention, but argues that these new gamers are not part of the entire industry, parents view games negatively, and that gamers game less and less. However, what Pro fails to realize is that if a person plays a single game, they by definition are contributing to the industry at large, just from purchasing that single game, making it arbitrary to set the entire industry as the goalpost, but also showing that that goal is met anyway. Cross-apply my refutation of Pro’s C1 to the issue of parents (a lack of source and lack of impact). Pro also makes essentially baseless and rhetorical games that the industry is failing, and that gamers aren’t gaming. However, he provides no actual basis for these claims that aren’t nonunique, or even supported with sources. So, extend this argument as well. Contention 2b - Community Extend this argument too, due to concession by Pro. Conclusion In short, judges, not only does Pro’s case fail for myriad reasons above, spelling a loss for Pro, but my case ultimately stands for the above-mentioned reasons. The resolution remains negated. Reference [1] http://www.mcvuk.com...	CON	862
862	S6d9eb665-A8feb63d7	new generation video games give a better experience, opposed to older games	"On this part I will actually hop around and provide some response to some of the contentions my adversary has made. I would like to start here. Contention 1 ""Therefore age cannot truly be a factor of whether or not newer, games give a better experience or older ones."" Age is entirely a factor in this with the resolution you are claiming. This debate is not whether or not new generation games provide a better experience to a younger generation, but whether or they provide a better experience overall. Every type of gamer must be taken into consideration because of this, to simply limit it to the younger crowd would not meet your resolution. You are claiming they provide a better ""experience"", without specifying to what demographic this is referring to, it is taken as a whole. As I stated prior to this, if you would have said that ""new games give a better experience to a new generation"", that could a very viable statement. We however must taken into consideration the age of all gamers from youth to elderly. My adversary is also saying that they could rework some games like mario and donkey kong and they would be considered old generation games. This is at fault with itself. If they rework the entire game, at that point it is a new generation game, because it is taking the new technology and applying it to an old game. What we mean by older games, is games that were literally released years ago and have not been reworked. Example - super mario (original) - this is an old gen game Example - super mario 64 (still old gen by my adversaries definition, but an entirely new generation in itself) Now if we take someone whom is 30 + , they may like the first mario better, and say these type of games offer a better experince. Someone around my age which is 25 may say that super mario 64, would give the best experience. Someone who is 18 may remember super mario sunshine and say this is a better experience. All of these are gamers, and all their experiences must be taken into account since you are claiming that specifically games that have been released in the past 2 or 3 years would provide a better experience than older ones. When someone is born is directly relevant to the type of experience they have while playing games Now take this into consideration. I am 25 and love new gen games, but I still think the older ones give me a better experience all around because of the elements that they have to offer. It invokes memories of some of the best games ever released. I can enjoy new ones and still play them, but I still prefer the older generation more than the new. It reminds me of a time where I enjoyed playing games the most. This is often the case with people 18+, if you ask them they would say they love new generation, but if you ask their favorite games you will often get answers like zelda or mario. Therefore we can conclude that my adversary is wrong when says age is not a factor. Contention 2 ""I would like to say that I did not ramble on about the new graphics, I clearly stated that “Development in technology enable developers to create more realistic looking and sounding characters"" This is a truth, but again this is mainly the truth with new gen gamers. If a new gamer is born into having these new features, he will be inclined to like it more than playing an n64 or super Nintendo. I have already shown this is not the case with people who grew up gaming. Even with the features it offers, gamers can simply prefer older games because of the experiences that they had playing them. Graphics will always get better along with sound and quality, this is something that will never change. As technology progresses so do these features, but that in itself does not offer a ""better"" experience to all types of gamers. Contention 3 Plot This is entirely irrelevant in and of itself. I made a point of giving a plot to show that older games still had good plots as well as the new ones. How much someone likes a story is directly related to their personal preference. Some people hate rpgs, so they would despise a old timey plot. Some people hate shooters, so they would not give call of duties story a chance. Saying that the plot in itself falls in favor of only new generation games is an error in logic. Anyone depending on what they like can pick up and old game and enjoy the plot and get a good experience. This is all dependent on what they do or not do enjoy. Saying that new games give the best plots, is entirely subjective and merely an assumption rather than a fact. It is directly correlated with my adversaries preference in games. Again ask someone whom loves zelda what is the best plot, 90 percent of the time you will get the ocarina of time, which is an old gen game. Contention 4 Music ""Perhaps you have me beat on the music area; the sounds are iconic and original as a music lover I cannot contest the quality, perhaps I should not bow to my opponent but I cannot deny the truth that the music is still as good as it is and was"" This is almost ironic he can claim this with the music itself but not the experience that someone has playing the game. The same can be said for the plot, the experiences the game gives, and the characters. Actually if we took this and reworded, it would show a strong point to support my case. Lets change some of the words around. "" The gameplay is iconic and legendary, and I as a gamer cannot contest the experince that others have. I however cannot deny the fact that newer games are still coming up and providing amazing stories and plots just as much as the old ones"" This is a statement I would agree to, one that says older generation games provide a better experience to some people while newer generation games provide a better experience to others. The story and the plots have always been amazing, and will continue to be amazing. The one Error my adversary is making, is that he is claiming the new gen overshadows the old gen, and I have shown that this is just wrong and very subjective dependent on whom is playing the game. Contention 5 ""AS we can see the rules have changed and game makers and developers are free to release to multiple platforms and are set at a market based value of consumption and price. This gives them the ability to free roam and explore the art of video gaming that’s why new generation games offer a better experience. "" This does not in one bit show that new games offer a better experience to everyone. Look at it like this, 10 years ago the marketing focus was aimed at that generation. So games like mario and zelda hit it big, and were sold in bulk So now that generation whom was around 15-18, is now 25-28 and do not play games as much. They retain the experience they had playing those games and enjoyed playing them and to this day will probably admit those were the best experiences they ever had. Now since those people do not play games as often, there is a new generation who does not like or got bored with the older games. So to be able to stay in business companies like bioware and square enix must come up with new platforms and stories that are relevant to this generation. This ties in with new graphics and other factors. They are focusing on this generation. Since the majority of gamers are younger, it is only basic marketing to focus on this new generation with what they sell. It will make them the most money. If these companies focused on just strictly older gamers and did not focus on where a majority of the people who play games are at, they will go bankrupt. This is not advocating a better experience to all types of gamers though. It shows that younger kids enjoy the new generation of games more than the old. This does not account for everyone personal experiences that they had with the older games though. In Closing I think I have made a much stronger case as to why newer games to not offer a better experience to everyone, but mainly offer a better experience to a new upcoming generation of gamers."	CON	863
863	S2428564f-A8221be63	video games are entaining and are fun they arnt bad in any way your also giving your fingers exercis	"Video Games Can Be AddictiveAddiction is defined as ""The condition of being habitually or compulsively occupied with or involved in something.""† Anyone who has really been into video games has experienced this. Kids and adults alike think about getting home and playing games. They also spend a great deal of time reading gaming magazines, participating in online gaming forums, looking for future game releases, and of course, spending countless hours playing games. When they aren't doing any of these things, they're wishing they were. 2. Video Games Can Be ExpensiveIt cost a lot of money to stay current with the latest video games and hardware (console and/or computer). Many gamers spend all of their money on gaming. For example, it's not uncommon for a gamer to have 50-100 games that cost $40-$50 each. They also often have at least 2 different game consoles and 1 high-end PC. This can easily add up to thousands of dollars a year to maintain a typical gamer's habits. 3. Video Games Can Hurt RelationshipsThere's often a direct correlation with the amount of time spent playing video games, and the amount of time spent engaging in a quality relationship. In the most extreme example I could find, there was a couple that was so consumed with playing video games that they ended up neglecting their 3 children — to the point that they were malnourished, naked, and covered in their own feces. Although that's an extreme case, I still think there's something to be said about people who spend the majority of their free time playing video games. My guess is that they're probably not dating or pursuing a meaningful relationship in their free time. Update: A reader brought to my attention an online group dedicated to loved ones who have been affected by their partner's addiction to World of WarCraft (WoW). Their description includes the following Do you have a loved one that plays World of Warcraft so much that you feel like you are a widow? This group isn't just for wives, but for anyone, husbands, girl or boyfriends, mothers, fathers, sons or daughters, or anyone that has had a relationship effected by this addictive game. 4. Video Games Can Be DistractingAvid gamers are similar to people who smoke a lot of marijuana — in that they don't get much done. Reading a good book, taking care of bills, writing an article, inventing something, mowing the lawn, etc... are simply not a priority when it comes to getting to the next level or finishing a game. Many gamers have things they would like to do in life, but they never get around to it, because they spend so much of their time playing games. Then, when they do have time to work on one of their projects, they're too tired to do it, because they stayed up till 3am playing a game. 5. Video Games Can Rob You Of Real Life ExperiencesInstead of taking a trip, mountain biking, or hanging out with friends at a cafe, gamer's spend their time in a virtual reality. Whereas real life experiences bear long lasting friendships and memories, videos games do not. The only pictures that come from video games are screenshots, and the memories that are created from playing those games are ultimately meaningless. Living means interacting, growing, learning, teaching, and loving — none of which can be accomplished in the virtual wasteland of video games. Reference from http://www.familyresource.com..."	CON	864
864	Sa879b165-Ab4826c9d	Are Violent video games like CoD bad for younger children?(<12)	Thank you to Con for posting this debate. I hope we can have a civilised argument and good luck to you. First off, I don't think that Violent video games are bad for younger kids. In reality it all depends on the child. Its the parents decision if the child is mature enough or not. Of course if the child isn't mature enough the game may cause him fear, but if you think about it the odds of that happening are slim. Its a video game not real life.	PRO	865
865	Sf2f51256-A3cb0e831	Video games cause more harm than good	I believe that video games have a negative social outcome and they do more harm to society than they benefit it. First round is for acceptance. Just let me know what your stance is on this subject. Round two is for initial evidence. Explorations of your position are important to the overall decision making process Round Three is for refutation. You think I'm wrong, I think you are wrong. Wait for this round to say why. Round Four is for Rebuttal. Further evidence to define your own position. Round Five is for Agreements and conclusions. If I make statement that you agree with, let it be known. Do you continue to hold your position?	PRO	866
866	Sfb5d4752-A2202e650	Contender chooses topic (Video Games)	"Resolved: Counter-Strike: Global Offensive is a better game, with better gameplay, than Call of Duty: Ghosts. ( I hope you've played this game before! ) Game 1: Counter-Strike: Global Offensive is an online multiplayer FPS[1], in which two distinct teams compete in various matches in order to win a round. The various rounds consist of: -Classic casual (or competitive): This round consists of two sub-missions: The Bomb Scenario, and Hostage Rescue. In the bomb scenario, one member of the Terrorist team is selected to carry the bomb, and it is the rest of the team's job to defend the bomb holder and allow him/her to plant the bomb at one of the bomb sites, A or B, which are strategically placed around the map. The Counter-Terrorists attempt to prevent the terrorists from planting the bomb, but if they succeed, there is a limited amount of time for the Counter-Terrorists to defuse the bomb. In the hostage rescue, there are two hostages placed around the map, and it is the job of the Counter-Terrorists to rescue a hostage, and return them to the safety zone, which the terrorists will be defending. -Arms Race: This round is a free for all, in which players attempt to ""level up"" their guns by killing other players, en route of getting the highest level weapon which means they win the game. -Demolition: This round is essentially a team version of Arms Race in which players must eliminate the opposing team, while their weapons are automatically upgraded each round if they killed an opponent during the previous round. -Deathmatch: This is a standard team vs. team match, in which players fight in ten minute rounds in attempt to gain the most kills each round. During these rounds, the players are given the option to buy weapons and create separate loadouts, or can be assigned a random gun after every spawn. Also, players can take the advantage of special weapons, available after a short period of time. -Offline with Bots: This is a mock-up of a regular casual game, with the only difference being that you are playing with the computer, rather than other players. This can be helpful for practice for beginners (noobs) or even the most experienced players (pros). This game is actively searched for cheaters and hackers (one in the same), and you can volunteer to aid the moderators of the great game by selecting the ""Watch"" tab, where you can watch matches played by other players which are suspected of hacking, and you can make your observations in a short report form afterwards. This process helps to maintain security of the game and its platform, and leads to a fun FPS game for loads of people to enjoy. Game 2 (This will be shorter, and more up to con to promote): Call of Duty: Ghosts is the tenth game in the Call of Duty series, and is an Online FPS where players can choose to play the campaign mode, where they go through a story and complete various missions. The player can also choose to play online multiplayer in different game modes, such as these: -Search and Rescue: A take on Search & Destroy, but rather than having a single life per round, in Search & Rescue a player's team can revive them. It combines that teamwork and communication from Kill Confirmed with the objective-based cooperation of Search & Destroy. -Gun Game: Similar to versions in previous games, the player starts with a pistol and continues to gain a new weapon for each player they kill. The match ends when a player cycles through all of the available weapons. -Cranked: In this team-based game mode, the first team to earn 100 kills wins. Once a player kills an enemy, becoming ""Cranked,"" the player who earned the kill has 30 seconds to earn a subsequent kill. If they do not earn a subsequent kill within 30 seconds they blow up. It does not appear that the detonation harms nearby teammates or enemies. If a player earns a subsequent kill within 30 seconds the timer resets to 30 seconds. Once a player is ""Cranked"" their movement speed is increased, they throw grenades more rapidly, and they aim down sight more quickly, among other effects. -Free For All: The classic gamemode from previous installments in the franchise returns, in which players must rack up a total of 30 kills to win the game against seven other opponents or rack up to most kills in a 10 minute time limit. -Team Deathmatch: Team Deathmatch returns in Call of Duty: Ghosts: two teams, 10 minutes, 75 kill limit. -Search and Destroy: A gamemode in which one side has five minutes to plant a bomb at a choice of two sites and the other team is tasked with defending the sites, the catch of this mode is there are no respawns and the game ends once one team wins four rounds. -Domination: A gamemode where three flags are scattered throughout the map for players to take and control. Every five seconds a flag in controlled will gain a player's team a point, if a player's team controls two or three flags they gain two or three points. The first team to 200 points wins. -Team Tactical: A mixture of objective games involving four on four matches. -Kill Confirmed: A gamemode in which two teams battle, similar to TDM, with the catch being that when a player kills an enemy they drop a dog tag, which is worth points when collected. If a player collects a fallen teammate's dog tag, no points are award to the enemy team; first team to 100 points wins the game. -Infected: Similar to the Modern Warfare 3 infected, one player is randomly infected at the beginning and can infect other players until either all survivors are infected or time runs out. Playlists will rotate between several different scenarios involving various loadouts. -Blitz: This team-based game mode is similar to Capture the Flag in that the player needs to go to a portal located at the enemy's spawn point while preventing players from the enemy team from reaching theirs. These portals are temporarily closed for 10 seconds when they are captured to prevent players from rushing. -Hunted Free For All: Players start with a pistol, two throwing knives, and a flashbang. Crates are dropped in random locations throughout the match that contains more weapons and ammo for the players to compete for. The game mode has a 25 kill limit. -Drop Zone: Teams take turns capturing drop zones for point ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Now after all of my info, I will begin my argument. 1. Multiplayer As you can see, there are fewer game modes in Counter-Strike: Global Offensive than Call of Duty: Ghosts. My response is, ""Does it really matter?"" Both games have similar game modes, but Call of Duty has more. Call of Duty also is played on many different platforms, where as Counter-Strike is only played on the PC/Mac, and has not been released on any other platforms (yet). None of the maps of CS:GO are ridiculously difficult to navigate, or are too big to make your way from one side to the other. This was a problem with Call of Duty: Ghosts. There was an uproar about the maps of the game being to large, and difficult to navigate without the map. This is no problem in CS:GO as there is a clear map in the corner of your screen (much like Call of Duty) and the majority of the maps are bright and easy to navigate, and not dark and confusing. Also, there are countless bugs in Call of Duty: Ghosts. All games have bugs, including CS:GO, but the Call of Duty series can be recognized for their bugs. CS:GO has a fair share also, but the game is constantly moderated, and kept tidy of any mishaps in the game. 2. Cheating All video games have cheaters, I mean, lets be honest. I can guarantee that there is no online multiplayer game that cannot be hacked, or modified (maliciously) by users in any way. CS:GO has an active cheater protection service, where members can watch footage from reported players, and then go from there. These videos are shown to more than one player, so there is no worries on, "" Well what if they lie?"", because the moderators and others players will watch the same clips. The size of the Counter-Strike community is also manageable enough to keep things in order--don't think I am saying that it is small, because that is not the case. However, because the Call of Duty fancies and community is so huge, hackers are prolific, and some are not found, and are not stopped. Of course many are taken care of, but who knows when you may be placed in a match with a hacker? Wouldn't that take all of the fun out of the game? Being up against something you can't defeat? Again, CS:GO still has their fair share, but they are not of the same caliber (meaning size). 3. Innovation Many video games start from one idea, and then evolve as years go by, and technology becomes more powerful, and can create digital things even more realistic. This is the case for both games, but the Counter-Strike games are even more impressive. As each new game is produced, graphics become better by each game in both series. The Counter-Strike series consists of four games. The Call of Duty series consists of ten games. This would lead one to believe that Call of Duty has developed the most over the years, rather than a four game series. Wrong. This is a picture from the first Counter-Strike game 1999 [2], and the first Call of Duty game 2003 [3]. The Call of Duty game has better graphics right? Well, here are pictures from the most recent games. (Ghosts for this argument) CS:GO 2012 [4], Call of Duty: Ghosts 2013 [5] ------------------------------------------------- Notations. [1] A (F)irst (P)erson (S)hooter [2] https://en.wikipedia.org... [3] https://en.wikipedia.org...(video_game)#mediaviewer/File:CallDuty1PC.jpg [4] http://en.wikipedia.org... [5] https://en.wikipedia.org..."	PRO	867
867	S22a50a17-A5f72e8b8	should kids be allowed to play video games on the weekdays	Did you listen to what I just said cunt?! Probably not, I assume your ape brain is struggling to understand another's point of view. Kids don't need video games corrupting their minds, like yours evidently has been. Id put good money on you being some pre-pubescent virgin from Florida who's thrown a tantrum at mummy because play time got taken away. Why don't you do something useful and grab your daddies shotgun and shoot up your school. At least then you'll have some kind of purpose. And of course, you'll be dead. Humanity will celebrate.	CON	868
868	S7a0c50d7-Ae154ac59	Video games: Immersion/Realism (pro) or Fun/Interactive (con)	"What I want to know: should video game developers strive to make games more immersive and realistic, or should they focus on the gameplay and making the game more fun? I see this debate as addressing the issue of games gravitating more towards an experience for the single gamer (immersion) versus an experience for a group (interactive). I use the word ""fun"" on the side of Con not to exclude the fun gamers have while playing immersive games, but to indicate that the games on this side put more effort into making the user enjoy his or her-self, often at the cost of realism. I will be taking the stance in favor of games promoting fun over realism, gameplay over immersion. I am also aware that there may be room for games to do both. Games that I consider favoring the first category - Silent Hill 2, Metal Gear Solid 4, Far Cry 4 Games that I consider favoring the second category - Super Smash Brothers series, Mario Party, indie puzzle games such as Ibb & Obb Looking forward to good debate! Let me know if you have any questions or would like clarifications."	CON	869
869	S2f5f5fc2-A99f63c29	Video Games Cause Bad Behavior	Sorry, thought 4 rounds would seem like a good time period. Now you say games have been a root cause in our society? I have a problem with this and stop me if this is getting out of the way to much, let's go back 40 years ago. I could give many reasons why kids are being rude or even killing people and also how adults more so are killing people or even just stealing things and I don't think Mario or any game made back them showed violence to a degree that is today so bad behavior is just something this society faces. It is natural, we can put the blame on something but no amount of science or public research will do unless you put a poll for the kids and adults who are doing these things. If they say games, they should be taken away, that is where their scapegoat is taken away. They will continue to do bad things and then we will all realize they were lying. Now onto the questions you asked me, garbage in equals garbage out and you are what you eat, I can't really counter argue the garbage in equals garbage out but the latter is easy. You are what you eat, so counting on this I am expected to go outside and be food. Now this is an example for those who have a low metabolism, if you take my father he will eat anything and still keep his 150 lbs. weight, but for me, well exercise is key. But now attuning this to games, say I am playing GTA and I steal a car, am I going to go outside get in a car and steal it, no. If I am playing Skyrim am I going to go diving in a cave to find a magical sword that will help me kill a necromancer, no. If I am playing MW or BF will I pick up a gun and expect to get hit 5 times before dying, no. People today need to learn more morals and be smart enough to tell right from wrong. This goes with your advertisements. I just watch the Super Bowl advertisements because they are funny, I mean did you see the Doritos Ninja, that was hilarious. Everyone hates commercials unless they are for our favorite things. I am more inclined to watch a commercial about a game than to watch one about a Swiffer Sweeper, it all deals to personal preference. I mean commercials are good but some, as we know about Black Friday, actually get people killed or injured for no good reason, so is it safe to say commercials cause BAD BEHAVIOR, if it is Black Friday I say a big YES. Now onto my arguments. Let's go back to the 80's when games were starting to pick up. We see games like Mario and Super Mario, oh we get to jump on top of creatures. It is probably the most repetitive game ever, but it is also one of my favorites. It won't make me believe I will jump on people on they will disappear or if I eat a mushroom I will get taller, if I ate a mushroom we all know what might happen. Games are made to entertain such as TV shows. I see a show of Ben 10 or Star Wars The Clone Wars I won't think I will get an omnitrix and defeat aliens or I will get a Clone suit and join the republic. I just sit back and enjoy the shows. I get into games though, when I am playing them. I will act out movements or shout as my character slices into an enemy with a sword but I am not going to physically hurt someone. To say games are a root cause is ridiculous. Puberty is more of a reason to cause bad behavior, kids start to go against their parents, unless they are truly respectful children, and they will do things against them such as not doing what they say. I was reading up on how they seem to cause bad behavior I saw it talked about the Columbine High School, we should all know what happened their. I remember seeing a documentary on the History Channel, or maybe Discovery Channel, but either way they never talked about them playing violent games, but on this site it did, so I don't know whether to trust the TV or the internet so I will let you be the judge on that. I kept reading, it said they had a study of 227 college students,why 227, I don't know but it said they all had aggressive behavior in the past, and what did they blame it on, that is right, VIDEO GAMES. But how can they say that when maybe they had a bullying problem in High School and wanted to let it out in those years and years to come. Then they had a second study of 210 students, they separated them and had them play Wolfenstein 3D and Myst. Those who played Wolfenstein had more aggressive behavior than they ones who played Myst, but how can we tell about this again not knowing the personal lives of these students, maybe they are being bullied, having a hard time at home, or even just mean students. I know this isn't all true with every student but we must face some certain facts. Will all kids act the same to a game? No, some kids (like me) won't be mean because I killed 40 people in a Team Deathmatch, but others may feel superior to others and if the others don't appreciate it he/she may take it out on the others in real life. My reason for people having bad behavior is like a person who refuses to stop drinking or smoke. They have a lack of self-control and discipline. For us to get rid of bad behavior we must be able to control or selves and release anger in a better manner than killing/stealing/taking out aggression on our peers, we must stop blaming what we play and find the real source whether it be neglect or just self-pity. If everyone knew right from wrong this wouldn't be a problem. http://serendip.brynmawr.edu... I leave the floor to you Chuz-Life	CON	870
870	S6d9eb665-A7401bb77	new generation video games give a better experience, opposed to older games	"My adversary is making a huge error in this argument. Let's look at what we are debating. ""new generation video games give a better experience, opposed to older games"" Now this can be true to some people but not to all. I will offer up some reasons as to why this is the truth in my following contentions. Remember he has the BOP to show that new generation games offer a better experience than older ones, and this must be true across the board, not just to him. So first lets take a look at some of the definitions of what we will be discussing. New Generation - These are the ones according to my adversaries remark in the comments that are extremely recent. Like up to a few years at most Older Generation - He labels this as games that are even as new as the early 2,000s. I would disagree and say older generation games are even way older than this, but for the sake of his definition I will use early 2,000s games to prove my point as well. Better - What is better is completely subjective to the person whom is playing the game. Remember he has to show that newer games offer a better experience than older ones, and must offer it to all types and generations of gamer's. Experience - practical contact with and observation of facts or events. With this it is referring to your time and how much you enjoyed playing the game. Even as to how you remember playing it. It can invoke thoughts and emotions. So Now I will offer up some contentions Contention 1 Age This is true in so many cases. If we try to take a gamer whom is 40 years old and get him to play some of the new games, it won't offer the same experience that some of the older games gave him. He would remember the glory days of snes, super nintendo, and atari. If you take a new gamer and get him to play the older games. He would most likely not enjoy it. He is being introduced into new graphics and voice capabilities that were not available at the time of some of the old releases. So he would not enjoy the old games as much. Here is the twist though, we can not simply label new games offer the better experience because of this. If we do that, we are not considering all the variables at play. Because of all the good times an older gamer may have had playing some of the older games, they probably would and will offer a better experience than some of the new ones. You would have been better of wording this something like ""New generation games have more adept graphics"", because this is not to be argued. Graphics and a story however do not determine someones ""experience"" when playing the game. It is the emotional times they could have spent playing with friends or family that give them their own personal experience. Contention 2 Older Games offer the same type of plots, stories, and music that New generation games offer, if not better. My adversary seems stuck on the point that the story line and graphics are far better with newer games. Graphics are a non arguable fact. As time goes by graphics will always get better, this can not be argued. I will however defend the story lines of some of these older games. Lets think back to some epic stories in game history. First you have Final Fantasy. All of this epic franchise is designed to have a good story. Where as what is "" a good story"" could be subjective as well, this series has one multiple nominations in japans for game of the year awards along with best soundtracks. Take a look at final fantasy 7. The basic plot in and of itself is based around shinra. This organization of soldiers that ran city of Midgar. One of the soldiers was cloud, an everyday solider whom the story ends up being based around. He is following and works with sephiroth who turns out be the stories main bad guy. The world is starting to run off of materia which is essentially a magical essence that is captured in stones a majority of the time. Later in the game sephiroth figures out he was cloned alone with cloud, and that is purpose is to destroy the world and bring Armageddon. All throughout this game it is killing off party members whom you fall in love with, and getting you addicted to the in depth story that progressives over time. More and more plot twists open up and I will avoid spoiling this for anyone whom has not played it but it turns out to be one of the most memorable rpgs ever made. The game series was made and started by Hironobu Sakaguchi, whom along the course of his career has one multiple awards and honors for creating amazing rpgs and stories. He is a legendary designer and revered and accepted as one of the best rpg creators of all time. So we can clearly see, that the old games have the stories as well. This is not even including games I could not mention like zelda or chrono trigger. Also I said the music is good as well. Two games still tug at my heart with the job it did on music, and they are chrono trigger and chrono cross. It offers some of the best orchestral music I have ever heard, and still to this day I can remember the epic music that played throughout the story line. It even had one of the best stories I can remember as well. Also the Black Mages who did the soundtrack for final fantasy games produced some of the best orchestra soundtracks in the rpg world as well. Some including ""those who fight further"" and ""one winged angel"". Chrono trigger is often also listed in peoples top ten list of best games ever made along with zelda and final fantasy. You can see some of the amazing music and even some of the characters in the youtube videos I linked http://www.youtube.com... http://www.youtube.com... http://www.youtube.com... http://www.youtube.com... http://www.youtube.com... http://www.imdb.com... http://www.gamelab.es... Contention 3 Old Games Paved the Way for New Games Without the original games the new games would no be where they are at. It is because of the efforts, characters, and stories that most of us treasure and love that the new modern era of gaming exists. Because of characters and stories like these below There are also so many more that I can't list. Because of the developers and creators of these memorable games, we have a new modern era. That is why so many people love the old gen more than the new gen In Closing My adversary can not or will not be able to show the New Generation of games offer a better experience than the old. It is my opinion, and probably the opinion of many more that the old games offer a much better experience and gave us memories that we will never forget. Thus his resoultion can not be met and he has no met his BOP"	CON	871
871	Sa7073d00-Affdf5c09	Video games are an innocent hobby!	There is nothing wrong with a video game! The chances of a kid going out and killing someone is almost not even existing! The Wii makes you move, so obesity is out of question. They are also a great way to communicate! Someone ready for a fun debate? Challenge me!	PRO	872
872	S5b6b23f-A10892dd1	Violent Video Games	"This is a very confusing run-on sentence. Most the time the parents do not know how the children act away from them. Some parents even embrace letting the children act like this."" That is because some parents let their children do whatever they want, including: skiping school, buying M/AO rated games, ect. This causes children to act ignorant and unruly. My chance of winning: 20% of 100%."	PRO	873
873	S6d9eb665-A82804e45	new generation video games give a better experience, opposed to older games	"I’ll address the contentions that have been made. Let’s proceeded in an orderly fashion Lest start with Contention 1 I’ll use the quote of myself that has been taken, ""Therefore age cannot truly be a factor of whether or not newer, games give a better experience or older ones."" My opponent seems to think that I am wrong in saying this however let’s look into the facts behind this statement that I have made. Generalization: We cannot say that every 40 year old will like older gamming and that every younger person will like the newer gamming, this is generalization. As I stated in the previous round that there is this faction of age, this line in the sand that mustn’t be crossed. This leads me onto my second fact. Lack of evidence: neither my opponent nor I can affirm that majority of gamers like one generation of games to another. I do not have any facts to back up that word “Majority” and I believe that my opponent doesn’t either. The age argument is based on what we think to be the Majority and not based on any evidence what so ever. I would also like to ask where in my previous argument I said “rework some games like Mario and Donkey Kong”. I said however that there are emulators that can play the old games, piece for piece an exact copy of the game. Also the Nintendo Wii offers these games also if you download them. I would be happy to be sighted as to where I said this. To finish of this part my opponent seem to be giving a lot of statements about age for example, “Someone whom is 30 +, they may like the first Mario better” “This is often the case with people 18+, if you ask them they would say they love new generation, but if you ask their favourite games you will often get answers like Zelda or Mario”. Where is the evidence to back this up, and also when I initiated this argument I had in mind the whole of the community of gamming. Contention 2 I believe that I don’t have to go into any further depth with this argument about graphics and development I have clearly stated my argument on it and so has my opponent. Contention 3 plot Have I rustled your jimmies mate, just kidding. The argument about the plot was merely contesting the one you made. “Older Games offer the same type of plots, stories, and music that new generation games offer, if not better”. If you were just stating that, “older games still had good plots as well as the new ones” where in the previous argument did you state this, the plot section was explaining why older gen stories are better. According to the topic sentence “if not better” implies you are contesting that newer gen games have better stories. Again I have made my statement on plot and I will not go into it further and I will be happy to be sighted as to where you may have said the things quoted. Contention 4 music What I have said about the new gen and old gen music remains true. However game play and experience of the game are entirely different to my statement of the music. I believe that newer generation games give a better experience. The statement you made about this “This is a statement I would agree to, one that says older generation games provide a better experience to some people while newer generation games provide a better experience to others. The story and the plots have always been amazing, and will continue to be amazing”. If you or I believed this, then I asks you this why are we arguing the topic. In my statements I say that newer generation games give a better experience to all and you believe that a majority say the older generation games are better. The fact that I’m claiming new gen games overshadow older games is correct, but aren’t you saying that new gen games cannot hold a candle to older generation games. I stand by my statement and I think you do to. Contention 5 ""AS we can see the rules have changed and game makers and developers are free to release to multiple platforms and are set at a market based value of consumption and price. This gives them the ability to free roam and explore the art of video gaming that’s why new generation games offer a better experience. "" I don’t understand the statement of how it is irrelevant to the topic. Let’s put the whole thing into context. The original argument was “Old Games Paved the Way for New Games” my opponent went onto explain this point. I then contested it with this “Nintendo would only permit licensees to sell carts made by Nintendo itself; cash in advance, with a minimum order of 10,000. Games licensed for NES had to be console exclusives for two years after launch, and each company was limited to just five games a year”. I then explained that how and why these games these games possibly did not set a road for newer generation games, please review if you must. My topic statement for this contention states they are able to explore the art of gamming that is why newer generation games give a better experience. Like any good art you need to find the core of what you’re doing to make it a success. I would like to point out some errors in this argument. “They are focusing on this generation” “Since the majority of gamers are younger” Companies like Bioware and square enix are focusing on the majority of gamers on the contrary of your statement that majority of gamers are younger is false. Majority of gamers the average age of a gamer is about 30 and has been playing for at least 13 years. http://www.theesa.com...; if the companies were truly aiming it at younger people then why do they explore darker themes and why are the ratings always so high. Can we not say they are aiming it at the average age rather than the overused statement that majority of gamers are younger. To sum up I have stated my case as to why newer generation games offer a better experience and superbly defended my case. I would have to say that I have proven a much stronger case as opposed to my opponent."	PRO	874
874	Sca66140c-A71b2519f	should video games be banned	Sorry but ABC mouse is meant for preschool kids and first of all i last recalled that you were 20 and yet you know about ABC mouse unless you just lied about your age and secondly games can hurt your eyes or invoke violence. Thank you for letting me win jerk.	PRO	875
875	Sbed8bb66-A450687b6	Feminism is ruining video games	"I understand where your coming from. You say I am making assumptions without any hard data or articles to back it up. Well I don't plan on having to rely on a sited source because I don't need to. Some things are just felt and seen by people who have a love for the medium. Before getting to my Mortal Kombat point I would like to re-mention a few games brought up in this argument. Fat Princess, Metal Gear Solid 5, and Dragon Crown are all games that in FACT was ridiculed by the media for their depiction of women. Now you may say it could have just been a group of women who had no relation to feminism, but come on now? We can safely assume that the only people who would go to the lengths of complaining about a woman character being too big, or not enough clothes, or too big of breast are feminist. Now back to Mortal Kombat. No I don't have any hard data on if the majority of the fans did not like the story for the reason of the main character being a female. BUT there are a lot of forum post from various sites, videos, and blogs, of people showing their disappointment in the story. The previous game in the series was highly reviewed, especially for its story. Then the next game came out, and gameplay wise it was good. But story wise it did not live up to the previous, with a disappointing ending. As gamers, comic fans, and nerds a like. We all know the feeling when you have your favorite series that you love. Then out of no where they make the new main character a girl, or they make a female have a clear advantage over a male character who should be stronger. Do we know the reason for a fact? Do we know if it was feminism influence on gaming, or was it a creative decision? We don't know? Loyal fans can tell when a certain aspect of the series is pandering to a certain sub group. The point I'm making is that feminism ruins our games with developers making changes in favor of the feminist party. Developers now have to be more conscious of feminist insecurities to not get bad press. More and more we see story lines and characters just being ""phoned in"" to have a female be more powerful than a male counterpart without any validity in the context of the game. Am I saying women can't be heroes? No. Am I saying they can't be powerful? No. All I am saying for the suspension of disbelief to work the character or the story line has to show all the strengths and weakness of characters (male or female), and not just give away important roles just to please a small fraction of gamers that are displeased either way you make your story."	PRO	876
876	S8d74e137-A5183f151	Pick a topic related to games.	There was an era especially between 1985 to 2006 when a lot of masterpieces were introduced to the video game world. These games mainly contained strong characters such as Mario (supermario bros), Sonic (Sonic the hedgehog), Zelda (Zelda series) , Leone (resident evil series), Sam fisher (Splinter cell series) , ... However, after 2005, the number of masterpieces has been decreased significantly. As a fan of video games, most of the new games that I have played, I forgot it after finish it. In other words, Lacking strong characters in recent video games led video games to be with lower quality and less impressive and also caused significant deceased in what we called masterpiece before.	PRO	877
877	Sf9ddb869-A32703432	Resolved: Thirteen Year Olds Should Play Video Games Based On Their Age On The Ratings	"Hello and thank you for debating this with me. This has been a while since I have done this so I may be a bit rusty. Good luck! Case 1: Not Bad For Your Kid Many case studies have been released to show video games have no effect on kids. In this study, (1) it shows that out of over thousands kids taken for the experiment, none, and may I repeat, NONE HAVE HAD ANY NEGATIVE EFFECTS ON A KID'S BEHAVIOR. A quote from the article. ""KEY FINDINGS Exposure to video games had no effect on behavior, attention or emotional issues. Watching 3 or more hours of television at age 5 did lead to a small increase in behavioral problems in youngsters between 5 and 7. Neither television nor video games lead to attentional or emotional problems. There was no difference between boys and girls in the survey results."" End quote There is another article based on the same experiment if you aren't satisfied. Case 2: Maturity At age thirteen, these teens know the difference between fiction and reality. If a parent finds rated M video games acceptable for her child, then who am I to argue with her. The stereotypical,""violent video games result in violence"" saying has been disproved by science. (3) It has been proven that even kids with depression and attention deficit disorder did not become overly aggressive or bullies. Here is a quote from the article. "" Ferguson, associate professor of psychology and criminal justice at Texas A&M International University, and Olson studied 377 American children, on average 13 years of age, from various ethnic groups who had clinically elevated attention deficit or depressive symptoms. The children were part of an existing large federally funded project that examines the effect of video game violence on youths. The study is important in light of ongoing public debate as to whether or not violent video games fuel behavioral aggression and societal violence among youths, especially among those with pre-existing mental health problems. Societal violence includes behavior such as bullying, physical fighting, criminal assaults and even homicide. And the news media often draws a link from the playing of violent video games to the perpetrators of school shootings in the United States. Ferguson and Olson’s findings do not support the popular belief that violent video games increase aggression in youth who have a predisposition to mental health problems."" End quote Overall, rated M video games have shown no correlation to a decline in mental health to thirteen year olds. this means there are no good reasons to restrict your kids from playing rated M games. Therefore, you must vote con! Thank you! 1. http://www.gamesandlearning.org... 2. http://www.forbes.com... 3. http://psychcentral.com..."	CON	878
878	Sa89adc77-A144a9146	Video games have positive benefits.	No games don't present good because if you watch the news there are people that following things that they've seen in a game like a seven year old shot his parent because he saw it on a game and why would any one do that if it wasn't down to games	CON	879
879	S7508165f-A564f9a8a	Video games have done more harm than good to society	I'd first like to say I'm excited to begin the discussion, and I wish you the best of luck as we continue. To open, gaming is the realm of all people. Pew Research has found that just about the same amount of men and women play video games. About 52% of all gamers are male, and 48% of all gamers are female. We also see gaming to be incredibly diverse in the field of age. 29% of all gamers are under the age of eighteen. 32% of all gamers are between the age of 18 and 36. The remaining 39% are over the age of thirty six. Now that we have established that gaming is indeed for everybody, let's take a moment to look over some of the benefits of gaming. Research has found that gaming helps with visual perception and attentiveness. By this I mean that people who have had a history of gaming have been found to have many advantages in some visual testing. One of these tests had an individual follow one chosen dot on a screen as it moved around with several other identical dots on the same screen. Another popular variation of this test is the 'follow the cup' game in which a ball is placed under one cup and moved alongside several other cups and hidden in the midst of it. Individuals with a history of gaming outperform others who take this test by up to 3-4 additional dots. Research has also found that gaming can improve ones mental flexibility, critical thinking, problem solving skills, memory, and multi-tasking ability. Not only has video gaming given evidence to benefiting the subtle items listed previously, it more importantly offers many incredible skills to players. Humans being social creatures strive off of attention, companionship, social interaction etc. Gaming, being for everybody, is a gateway to socialization. Not only does it help peers grow and bond together, but it also encourages you to go out of your comfort zones, talking to people who you would have never met before, or would have never thought of talking with before. Groups, or in some games guilds, show the importance of teamwork, and unity to people. It doesn't just tell them about it, it puts them in a virtual situation in which they need to work together with other individuals in order to attain victory in the end. There's so much more to it than social interaction too. Skills and knowledge also come from gaming. Although games are not always the most trustworthy sources, there are still many things one can learn from such a thing. Take for example economics. Games with a virtual economy show people how economics work. They don't just tell you about it like a school does, they show you. You get to see first hand how the value of an item is decided and distributed, based upon the theory of supply and demand. Text-based gaming has been know to improve literacy in individuals, as well as cite an interest in reading actual books, which I think most people can agree is always a good thing. So up until this point I've discussed the benefits of video games to the majority, or to the common person. But one thing that simply cannot be ignored is the ministry of help games offer to the people who need it most. Video games have been found to ease and in some cases cure dyslexia. It has also been found to help individuals struggling with Autism or ADHD. Individuals who are involved in gaming are found to be less stressed in life. Research shows individuals struggling with Anxiety and/or Depression are able to relax and look past their worries while gaming. Individuals struggling with addiction, such as drinking or smoking, are also more likely to succeed in quitting while being involved actively in gaming. In conclusion, games are helpful. They grow traits, they grow skills, they grow talent, but most importantly they grow people. Video Games act a simulation of things ordinary education simply cannot produce, and it sparks life in individuals. Not only are games helpful, but they're helpful to everybody. People of all ages, identities, sexual preferences, what-have-you are all welcomed and fully able. This includes the people who are less fortunate than others, the disabled, and the struggling - the people who need it most. Gaming is a beautiful development that is changing lives. Sources: http://www.pewinternet.org... http://www.dailydot.com... https://www.psychologytoday.com... https://www.psychologytoday.com... http://mentalfloss.com...	CON	880
880	Scc6490a7-Ab9ce073b	Playing video games promote creativity more than reading a book	"Alright, here's why your arguments based off of the topical analysis are abusive and mandate a con vote: The legitimate ""topic"" is ""Playing video games promote creativity more than reading a book"". If we would look to this exact wording every single time, we would see that it is hardly at all fair for the con, and it would be impossible to win, as your side is plural, and mine is singular. Therefore, you could use the total ""accumulative"" creativity, and I could only use the weight of a single book. Because it would be rather audacious for you to propose that we argue that topic, I looked to your description of my argument in the first round: ""Con will explain how they think books are better for creativity than video games."" Here we see both sides of the topic is plural, so yes, the total and accumulative number is ENTIRELY relevant. Reader and judge, even if you don't buy that we should look to the notes made in the first round, you're voting con. If you were to vote pro, you would be promoting the inherit bias that comes with starting a debate. When someone starts a debate, they have the ability to change the topic towards whatever they like. For example, we could create a topic that was extremely one sided: ""Nerf guns shoot farther than a nerf gun"". Obviously, because one side is plural and the other singular, this argument is in favor of the pro all of the time. Obviously, no one in their right mind would accept this debate, as they know as con they would lose. This is similar to this debate. My opponent had a very large inherit bias for the topic based on the written topic at the top of the screen. If he did not make the note that he did in the first round, I wouldn't have accepted the debate. By voting con, you're helping Debate.org turn into a fun and academically promoting site, while by voting pro, you would be supporting inherit topical bias and further watering the seeds to turn the community towards abusive debates. Lastly, even if you don't buy any of the above arguments, I've still manage to prove the greater creative value of a single book versus that of a single video game. My opponent did not even once mention the fact I brought up about academic essays, and this was a large mistake. Extend this argument to the final round as the creative value of an essay trumps over the small creative value of problem solving in video games. Onto my opponent's arguments in the last round: >In video games, you can restart puzzles and challenges. And every time you can find a new creative way to overcome >these challenges. Not only does this promote creativity, but it also promotes problem solving. -I believe you're very much over generalizing here. You've neglected to name a single example of a video game that is non-linear enough to allow an ""obstacle"" to be overcome in more than one way. > Also, video games are more entertaining -Once again, an EXTREME generalization. If you'd like to say this, then you'd have to have another debate round to prove it. Entertainment is, by its very nature, subjective to an individual, so no conclusions can be drawn about the entertainment values. >91% of children play video games -First, if we're judging by your standards, then this is irrelevant. However, if you don't buy that this is irrelevant, then consider the following, reader: The article says that only 4,136 people were surveyed. The article also fails to provide the location, we don't know if this is in a community with a large percentage of wealth or technological access. Also, turn this around to help the con out. The CIA world fact-book says that the literacy rate of the United States is 99%, even higher than my opponents alleged 91%. In conclusion, based on my opponent's abuses, the reader needs to vote con. I've also provided evidence even if the reader doesn't buy the arguments based off of those abuses. As antagonizing as I sound, I would like to thank my opponent for the opportunity to debate, and I would like to thank the reader as well for the time they have invested in reading this debate."	CON	881
881	S2b189cc0-A7347d9e8	there should be less violence in video games	I think there should be more because people like them more then nonviolent games. A lot of people like Zelda, call of duty, anime and a lot more then nonviolent games.	CON	882
882	S126ee163-Acaa0b143	Competitive computer games should be the part of Olyimpics games.	"This I believe is incorrect, all three of these sports require physical skills and therefore fall under the label of athletic sports. Shooting: This sport requires proficiency with the given fire-arm that involves a tremendous amount of physical accuracy and speed. Curling: This sport also much like shooting requires a great deal of physical skill and control, even including a team aspect. Golf: Golf involves physical strength and accuracy not uncommon to the existence of other sports invovlved in the Olympics. Objection #2 You claim that my statemen regarding the Olympics being a historically athletic competition to be false. Your support for this objection is the short history of Cycling, BMX or Mountain biking. This to me appears to be a misunderstanding of my argument, my contention is that the Modern Day Olympic Games are an adaptation of the Olympic Games of ancient Greece,[1] which involve a series of athletic sporting events. Modern sports can and should be added if approriate to the nature of the competition, this is not so for Video Games as it is demonstrably not a athletic sport. Objection #3 You assert that the existence of trolls in every sport should not discount the inclusion of Video games from the Olympics. This still fails to realize the vast difference in levels of professionalism and sportsmanship between Olympic athletes, and E-Sport superstars. The players themselves are largely not to blame, but the overall volatile communities that foster avenues for online bullying due to the fact it is completely anoymous. Objection #4 Clarified my argument to show your ""disproving"" my primary argument as invalid and a misrepresentation of my assertion. Objection #5 Video games simply have no place in the summer or winter olympics, the viewership for all the events can be just about universally appreciated by the global audience, and this attempt to draw a comparision I believe fails in that I can enjoy the skill one evidently has in diving, without participating in that sport myself. Video games are a much more specific fan base and most importantly are NOT athletic sports and therefore should have their separate venues for competition where the struggling players actually make money. All I have time for, for now. Kindest Regards, TrueScotsman"	CON	883
883	Se8780244-A367a33b3	schools should allow kids to play video games at break	Kids should not be allowed to play video games during breaks (assuming breaks during classroom hours). I will not post any arguments this round in order to give my opponent a chance to have the same amount of rounds for which to make his argument.	CON	884
884	S33b3c1cd-A3e2cebe3	Video games are the sole reason for violent teens, and other persons.	Due to the fact that con accidentally entered this. I withdraw my part in this debate. I still disagree with the statement that video games are the sole purpose for people killing others. I also have a killer migraine and can no longer partake in debates tonight. I apologize for my excuse's but they are very true.	CON	885
885	S55e10797-Aff3211e7	Resolved: Violent video games cause increased aggressive behavior	Extend arguments, anecdotal evidence. Vote PRO. haha To counter his anecdote, I will cite myself. When I play violent video games, I tend to become more aggressive for short periods of time after I am done playing. Although it wears off over time, being interrupted, forced to get off, or someone trying to be nice to me can make be a bipolar crazy loon for about 30 minutes after extended play. Only slower paced games--which, luckily, I play the most of--prevent this from occurring.	PRO	886
886	Sf3750c50-Ae25d71f6	Violent games lead to violent actions	"Pewdiepie is that kind of person that shouts and whacks stuff but that's not because of video games it is because of himself thank you for bringing this up and thank you to Simple_Logic for your opinion Simple_Logic : Violence does not come from video games, violence comes from people , violence can be biological or psychological, whether a person has the will to control violent actions is a matter for science. You are very right as violence does come from people not video games. People are people, people have free will video games should not spoil that free will just because you think they make people angry. It""s not the video games it""s the person."	CON	887
887	S204460e9-A8abd9d21	Are video games making kids dumber Yes(pro) or No(con)	"Yaaaay source battles! /endsarcasm I'll be going through this line by line, so anything my opponent says will be in bold. ""First this is talking about kids 1-16."" First of all, this is one-hundred percent shifting the goalposts. No where anywhere else in this debate did he restrict the topic of conversation to people between the ages of 1 and 16. That's entirely unfair for me to prepare arguments to cover a vast array of ages just for him to cut out half of my ground out of nowhere. But second of all, this is such an arbitrary definition of what a ""kid"" is that there's absolutely no way to support it. Don't abide by this at all. ""Boys from ages 6-9 where participating in an event. (check first link) They never had games before and guess what they got dumber."" This is where all the fun parts of the debate come into play. /endsarcasm At the end of the day I have sources saying that kids learn better with video games. He has a source saying that kids don't learn better with video games. So it just comes down to whose sources you believe more. First of all, you're going to prefer my sources because I have information coming from a renowned psycologial association and a noteworthy news organization as opposed to just one person. You prefer it for this reason because a) I'm getting this information from more than one credible place, meaning that multiple people have come to this conclusion, and b) my studies come from peer-reviewed organizations, meaning that it's other people's jobs to look over my information to make sure that it isn't biased or flawwed in various ways, rather than his source which is just the findings of one random guy. Second of all, you're going to prefer my sources because my sources cover a broader scope in terms of a time frame, while his source just focuses on short-term effects, not what it does to the kids overall. To quote directly from the first paragraph in his source, ""according to a study that examined the short-term effects of video-game ownership on academic development in young boys."" He just has sources that cover a four month period of time in the early life of a kid. My sources span from toddlerhood to college level students. So you're preferring my sources on the basis of I'm covering a much larger scope of information than my opponent, as well as a much larger time frame. But even if you don't buy my sources specifically, at worst this makes them even out and cancel each other out. That means you have to look to my other arguments that weren't addressed at all, such as the arguments that video games increase kid's creativity, ability to visualize objects in three dimensions just as well as academic courses, an improved problem solving capability and ability to cooperate with others. These all impact the debate to make kids ""smarter"" and most certainly not ""dumb"". My opponent never responded to any of these claims, hold it against him. ""The sad truth is that children won't really play them unless they are forced."" First of all, even though I'm not one for usually reading sources and I certainly don't blame you if you don't either, I agree with my opponent that you need to read his second source. Why? Because it doesn't say a single word of what he's claiming it does. There's absolutely nothing in the article that says that kids are going to be peer-pressured into not playing games that have clear educational motives. But second of all, even if it is there, my impacts still stand because even the non-educational ones offer added benefits that help in education. These were the claims that, ironically, my opponent dropped. So go back to the argument I brought up from the APA that says that playing shooter video games improved player's capacity to think about objects in three dimensions, as wella s the argument that children's creativity was enhanced by playing any kind of video game, including violent video games. So even if his argument here is true, I'm still giving kids educational benefits through video games that kids will want to play. His argument here just doesn't matter. ""What did I learned I learned nothing about teamwork."" First, you're still preferring the numerous studies done on this that cite the improved teamplay and coorperation with others over my opponent's personal testemony, which is a) potentially biased, and b) absolutely unverifiable. But even if you do want to give it consideration, I'm also a player of games such as League of Legends, Guild Wars 2, Warcraft 3, World of Warcraft, and Starcraft 2, all of which are online, multiplayer games. I've learned more about how to work together with others and get people to follow one common goal through these games than I ever have through school or academics. This means that a) you prefer my testemony because I have experienced a wider range of games than my opponent has, making my testemony more probably true than my opponent's, or b) just ignore personal testemonies altogether and look to the actual studies that I have that back up my testemony. At the end of the day, the debate breaks down really simply: 1. My opponent drops numerous arguments I made from the APA. As the last round is approaching, don't let him respond to them because he had his chance and didn't. To let him do it in the final round where I have a limit time to address them and to create clash is really unfair. 2. My sources cover a broader scope and time frame than my opponents, as well as come from more reputable places, which means you're going to be preferring my sources compared to my opponent's. 3. Just ignore the personal testemony stuff. But if you won't and you want to evaluate that stuff, you prefer my personal testemony since I've played a wider range of games and therefore am more knowledgable about it's benefits than my opponent, which makes my testamony more probably true."	CON	888
888	Sbd51665d-A73df7476	Video games are for loser Nerds	nerds are 1. nerds dont get invited to parties 2. nerds dont get TANG losers are 1. people who lose Everyone KNOWS that people who play games dont win at anything ecept their world of wercraft bate champtionships. Clearly, no VICTORY, no PARTIES, no TANG = LOSER NERD IMO. Having a life needs ONE thing SHOTS, TANG, a COLLAR shirt, and $$ in the BANK. Naerds are too busy playing anime MMOIMO's to win Anything!!!! youre turn	PRO	889
889	S15c300e1-A769fbea1	violent games vs non violent games	"The Burden of Proof is on Pro. But because he made no arguments, you ought to be votin for CON!!! My opponent's argument, ""Austin is a little but hole"" is irrelevant according to the resolution of video games. My argument is that violent video games makes children's brains worse, and it makes your children more violent, only in a more physical way. http://www.huffingtonpost.com..."	CON	890
890	Sa808517c-A4dfc9546	Violent video games should be banned	There are so many ways to learn history or mythology or science( books, films,etc). Furthermore, games can cognitive and interesting without any violence at all; thus, violence isn't necessary attribute of beneficial game. Also, a person who plays violent games too much can be used to acts of cruelty in real life as well. As a consequence, the person treats violence indifferently, regarding it as a normal thing; spiritual values are effaced. With such tendency, the crime rate can be increased considerably making the world less and less safe. Especially it has impact on children, whose individuality isn't formed yet. Its formation depends on the experience, and if a child plays brutal games and sees all disgusting scenes with blood, death, etc, it can lead to psychological trauma, which will remain with the child for the whole life. Yes, I know that most such games have age limits, but it only increases the curiosity of a kid, not deterring them from playing.	PRO	891
891	Sc25c7b05-A3c193fca	Video gaming is good for Brain	Playing video games increases our: 1. Concentration. 2. Quick responses of Brain. 3. High level thinking. 4. Decision making, Strategy and management. 5. Memory of brain, Skills and creativity of brain. 6. Coordination between our eye and fingers. 7. Development in reading and sudden situational Awareness. 8. Improvement in multiple tasks doing at same time. 9. Confidence, hard work to achieve goal. 10. And at last, Playing video games gives relief to our brain , reduces the stress of brain and tension as it is played as Entertainment. Also these is proved by many Scientists and Psychologists that playing video games have many benefits. It is good for brain development in many way, as playing video games is exercise which can build brain muscles, enhance the concentration of Brain. And also many other reasons given by Scientists and Psychologists. Here one of the link: http://backwardmessages.wordpress.com...	PRO	892
892	Sd2501881-A17d0b21f	this house would ban video games	Thank you Pro, I feel very closely vested to the subject matter, as I believe gaming has done great things for my life - So I am more than happy to set up and debate this subject with you. Quick question for future rounds - Do you wish for this to be sources (With links to sites, to show our side of the argument) - or would you prefer this to be a mind vs mind debate here, where we each use our knowledge and wits to sway the others' opinions? ^ this will let me know how you want to approach this debate, so we can do it your way from there. For my first round, I will assert that Video games should not be banned, due to a myriad of reason I will clarrify in subsequent rounds. I just wish to find the format my opponent wishes to go with, and we can get started at full steam! :) As a quick list, so you are aware of where I intend to go with my debate : * Influcing study period (plan to debunk this) * Assistance is learning * Retention of information learnt * Assimilation of languages * Spatial accuracy * Life/Social Skills * Builds Social defenses These are just the few subjects I can see that will help build my case - Pro I hope you have some good ones :) Good luck, and may we both be excellent to each other!	CON	893
893	Sa6e1c16c-A3f19f458	Should violent video games be banned	Well in most cases where the kid that did the crime and violent videos games are addressed the kid is normally is mentally unstable plus by banning them it is getting rid of the one way a kid can safely vent out anger. Now should battlefield and call of duty be banned? yes but I think that there a great violent videos games that allow a kid to take there anger out of I mean going back to my the kid doing the crime is Normally unstable I mean I have played many a gta games but it has never made me want to murder someone or steal cars or do anything I do in it. Like the game hatred that is coming out it is just you blowing stuff up and murdering people I mean I think a kid (Not like 9 or 8 or something like that that is to young) could benefit from by having a great venting thing plus the violence in games like hatred a kid knows when they get to like 3erd grade so it is not like they won't know it when there young. And when they turn into adults they will learn about violence anyways So why not in a safe environment of his own home and not on the street where he is getting mugged.	CON	894
894	S2b189cc0-Acd81cff7	there should be less violence in video games	"Well, I have already debated on a similar topic with someone who shared similar views as i did. I couldn't find much in the area of debates in the challenge period, so i decided to make another one. First round is acceptance. Definitions: Video Game: an electronic work, specifically a virtual one ultimately comprised of data; this definition can be stretched, but shouldn't impact the debate on whole if it does. Violence: The portrayal of one body or force physically harming an animal, in most cases a human. ==>Things are ""more"" violent if they encourage violent behavior or portray them as normal, display gruesome content as it applies to violence, or otherwise can offend people by means of violence. Therefore, ""less"", in this argument, means it does not have or use as much or any of the above characteristics I have labelled as ""more"" violent. Specifications on ""should be""; I will assert that it is beneficial for the majority of any parties involved with gaming and the effects thereof, directly or indirectly, for games to have less violence in them. (""beneficial"" not meaning without consequence, but that the potential gain outweigh the losses.) Also, understand we are talking in hypotheticals; if violence were to drastically decrease, i am asserting that things would be ""better"" (see previous paragraph). Both sides must acknowledge that we cannot fully know what would happen under such circumstances; however, we can elaborate on what we do know, and hope that is enough. The TL;DNR version: pretty much exactly what you would expect. A few definitions and such to make the argument more rigid, which should be considered, but you don't have to memorize them or anything."	PRO	895
895	S78239cf0-A6f04fc66	Emulators For Video Games Are Illegal	"My opponent says very little of substance in the previous round, besides that he didn't understand most of my arguments. I'll try to simplify them a bit to make them easier to understand. (1) Escaping punishment is different from something being legal Have you ever broken a traffic law and *not* gotten a ticket? [e.g. turned left without signaling, rolling through a stop sign, driving even though you forgot your license at home]. Traffic laws are hard to enforce. There are a lot of violators and very few policemen in comparison to lawbreakers. The same is true of Copyright Law. There are a lot of violators who download illegal movies, tv shows, music, and software, but very few people willing to enforce the copyrights against them. So a lot of copyright infringement goes unpunished. However, the lack of punishment does not mean the foregoing punishment is ""legal."" It's just that most people who break the law happen to get away with it. My opponent demands that I explain exactly *why* there aren't a lot of lawsuits against Emulator Developers. I *already* did: difficulty of finding their true identities, them being judgment-proof (not having enough money to pay any court judgment), the high cost of the attorneys fees of prosecuting copyright violators, etc.... There *have* been lawsuits, however, or threatened lawsuits. There was one N64 emulator called UltraHLE. The emulator developers pulled their product off the internet after Nintendo threatened them with a copyright infringement lawsuit. [1] Nintendo recently sued a developer of a Nintendo DS emulator in Japanese court (for copyright infringement) and won. [2] However, suing individual gamers who emulate is a bad strategy. As the music and movie industry saw, such lawsuits just piss their customers off, while doing nothing to ebb the flow of illegal downloads. As James Conley, a professor at the Kellogg School of Management (at Northwestern University), explains, ""[Video game companies] can follow in the footsteps of the music and film industries and use litigation to stifle and shut down the innovation that is emulation. This approach will be quite costly, and it will neither endear them to their customers nor ultimately stop emulator proliferation. In the opinion of longtime industry critic Timothy White, this will only delay the inevitable. Alternatively, they can take seriously the customer demands that fuel emulator popularity and chart a different course. Rather than making legal action the sole response, they can adopt a more nuanced, sophisticated approach in which they co-opt the market by entering the business of emulation themselves. By listening to their customers and thinking creatively about their business models, game console manufacturers and software publishers can protect their markets, their brand equity, their intellectual property, and . . . consumer good will."" [4] Basically, just because emulation is illegal does not mean that vigorous litigation against people who emulate is a good *business* strategy. It's better to tap into that market by offering ports of old games on phones, for example, rather than simply suing anyone who downloads an emulator of your video game system. Brand loyalty is important in the gaming industry. You don't want to piss off your customers by suing them. (2) Other countries First of all, I assumed my opponent meant in the United States, since he did reference in Round 1 his own *flawed* understanding of US Copyright Law. I think it's fair to limit this debate to the United States. If you saw a topic on DDO that said ""murder is not illegal"" and your opponent seemed to be discussing US law, it would be safe to assume that your opponent would not later say, ""haaa, there is no murder law in Southern Sudan!! I win!!!"" Second, more than 160 countries agree on basic copyright principles because at the Berne Convention, they all signed a treaty to honor basic copyright protections for copyright holders. [3] While the intricacies of local law are sometimes enough to deter a major US or Japanese company from suing some small emulation developer in the Netherlands, for example, copyright protection still transcends national borders. [3] So pretty much no matter where my opponent travels to, downloading ROMs and emulators would be illegal. My opponent drops my other points. I extend them by implication, but need not reiterate them here. [1] http://www.theregister.co.uk... [2] http://www.dailytech.com... [3] http://www.rightsdirect.com... [4] http://scholarlycommons.law.northwestern.edu..."	PRO	896
896	Sedfa0947-A3cb4de89	Video games are not useless in today's society.	It really depends on how you use them and what kind of games you play. Unfortunately, popular games today are usually about wars and destruction which has little moral values to teach. Instead, it affects people, especially youngsters, in a bad way. It usually wastes time, money and effort.	CON	897
897	Scc799d93-Af3c18fc4	Some video games are bad for kids	Interesting prediction, but there's the possibility that they make a game system that similar to google glass where every action you do will be done in the game. Horror games will help tue exersize by making them scared enough to run. Besides exercise games tend to be fun and are played more often than one would expect.	CON	898
898	Sfcd65ea3-Adcf3b473	computer games are good for us	I look forward to debating with you! May I ask, are we restricting the scope to specifically just computer games as in specifically PC games, or by computer games do you mean any sort of video game, including handhelds and Xbox. Next, I think that computer games in general is such a huge topic, it might be beneficial for us to argue something more specific, such as video games with violence, or M rated games. Either way, I think this will be a good debate and I wish the best of luck to you.	PRO	899
899	S885c45a0-A690b796d	Video Gaming Should Be An Olympic Sport	"Resolved: ""Video Gaming Should Be An Olympic Sport"" (2.) Definitions: Video Gaming: ""The act of playing video games."" Video Game: ""A digital world that usually involves objectives and is controlled by a player."" Player: ""A human being who interacts with video games."" Sport: ""A communal, usually competitive, human activity that involves mental and physical effort to accomplish a given task(s)."" Olympic Sport: ""A sport that is chosen for its versatility and challenge, that usually involves the best performing players, and that is - in modern times - a publicized, televised competitive event which occurs over a certain period of time. (3.) Burden of Proof: The burden of proof is shared between PRO and CON. PRO must satisfactorily prove the resolution to be true. CON must satisfactorily prove the resolution to be false. (4.) PRO's Opening Argument: I. Introduction. Since the Greeks began the Olympics with a few, physically demanding sports, the famous competition has grown to include unoriginal sports, such as fencing, bobsled racing, and synchronized diving. At the same time, the popularity of the modern biannual event has skyrocketed due to the increased amount of state participants, athletes, and citizens. The Olympics is also lucrative for a wide variety of factors. First, the host state receives exposure to both its nationality and marketable goods. Second, advertisements on television reach an enormous audience. Third, live audience tickets to the Olympics are in high demand and are, therefore, expensive. Considering now it historic evolution and commercial nature, imagine how much profitable the Olympics would be if competitive video gaming was included! II. Arguments in Favor: A). Video games can be played communally as a competitive sport. Although not overly physical, video games still require light-speed thinking, even quicker reflexes, and remarkable strategy to win at highly competitive tournaments. Therefore, video games meet the definition of a sport and should be qualified for consideration. B). Video games have an almost ubiquitous appeal and modern cultural significance. From ERB to PewDiePie, TellTaleGames to Markiplier, Disney to CaptainSparklez, the video game culture pervades the modern world. The Olympics would be wise to harness the popularity of video games to its advantage. C). Video games would make the Olympics more profitable. By adding diversity, video games would attract more viewers and thereby more monies to the Olympics, specifically from the younger demographics. The addition would not necessarily disinterest older demographics because there would still be other intriguing sports to watch. For primarily these three reasons, video games should be added as an Olympic sport. (5.) Conclusion. This is a topic that is important to me and it is one that I hope to debate well. Thanks for reading; I await my opponent's acceptance and opening argument. - Mr. Speaker"	PRO	900
900	S50c55103-Aa5422f65	Do games teach kids violence.	Violent juvenile crime in the United States has been declining as violent video game popularity has increased. The arrest rate for juvenile murders has fallen 71.9% between 1995 and 2008. The arrest rate for all juvenile violent crimes has declined 49.3%. In this same period, video game sales have more than quadrupled. [7] [8] A causal link between violent video games and violent behavior has not been proven. [34] Many studies suffer from design flaws and use unreliable measures of violence and aggression such as noise blast tests. Thoughts about aggression have been confused with aggressive behavior, and there is a lack of studies that follow children over long periods of time. A 2004 US Secret Service review of previous school-based attacks found that one-eighth of attackers exhibited an interest in violent video games, less than the rate of interest attackers showed in violent movies, books, and violence in their own writings. The report did not find a relationship between playing violent video games and school shootings. [35] The small correlations that have been found between video games and violence may be explained by violent youth being drawn to violent video games. Violent games do not cause youth to be violent. Instead, youth that are predisposed to be violent seek out violent entertainment such as video games. Playing violent video games reduces violence in adolescent boys by serving as a substitute for rough and tumble play. [36] Playing violent video games allows adolescent boys to express aggression and establish status in the peer group without causing physical harm. http://videogames.procon.org...	CON	901
901	S7f02efbf-A94d184eb	Playing violent video games make people more violent.	"I'm just a 13-year-old kid from Hong Kong and I'm setting up this debating to collect the useful information from dear repliers, in order to help me prepare for my grand debate competition soon. Hope you could help me. There might be errors or points that lack solid evidence. Please help point them out. Thank You! Playing violent video games make people more violent. This is certainly a joke. The true reason of such violent acts is actually all because of your family background, affection of the same age group as well as the mental problems of one. It is not what you think that when you are addicted to a game, you will start doing the same thing in reality just as the one you experience in the game. We have brains, for god's sake, which we are able (or supposedly) to identify and classify what is right, what is wrong. It is our responsibility to discover the black and white of human society. But however, in the process of learning how to do that, it is our parents who should have taught us well and control our acts, limiting us from doing something beyond our reach. So, parents do have a responsibility to build a supportive and steady foundation for the young, let them know that the fighting and punching, killing and stabbing, as well shooting is no good. Parents can do it by limiting the stuff that the young take reach, the games they play etc. On the contrary, nowadays parents are very caring. They buy and give whatever the child wants, just to keep the kid happy. I am thirteen only, and don't ever ask my parents to buy whatever I want. I can only do it if I can prove myself worthy to do so, otherwise, forget it. Well, playing violent video games make people more violent. Why do people say such thing? How do you define violent? If such statement stands, does it mean that a boring class would make people more boring (meaning the person would become not exciting)? Things don't go like that. A cause-and-effect relationship concept is the key of such misunderstanding. Boring doesn't mean you're boring, so does violent doesn't mean you're violent. Moreover, it is a matter of opinion and fact. How do you define violent? Does violent mean involving killing? Yes, in extreme cases, but otherwise, it is an intense in force, causing destructive or damage. If it is so, is Angry Birds a violent video game, since it is causing destructiveness for the Pigs. This is what we should understand, that is it a fact or opinion. Furthermore, we should also ask that how does playing violent video games literally make people more violent. Being violent is a matter of yourself, your heart, where it is your choice, a choice to be made by you, to decide whether you want to be bounty hunter, a killer, an assassin, or just rather a peaceful person. Last but not the least, we should also beware of the words of the motion --- ""make"". What does make mean? Well, make means to cause. It this motion, we lack the meaning of make, whether it is indirectly or directly. Therefore there are grey areas where we cannot debate clearly or just deciding to use one aspect. In such case, being a negative side, I would chose indirectly. This actually means that there is something else besides than violent games that causes people to become violent. The lack of control of parents, the lack control of the export of violent materials etc. Lastly, we should have a clear mind, of identifying good and bad, as well spread such message to others, especially the next generation."	CON	902
902	Sa5088c85-A645c02fa	Video gaming is not a sport	"I would firstly like to point out that I know what normal video gamers do. Maybe normal video gamers don't sit in a dark room 24/7 but I do know that most video gamers play on their PC/console for hours on end. I also know that professional video gamers probably do sit in a dark room with energy drinks when they supposedly ""train"". I too am a gamer but I love sports a whole lot more. To associate video games at the same level of a sport is somewhat insulting to all the real athletes in the world. Secondly I""d like to point out that I said that chess is a mind sport. That means that chess mainly focuses in the mental challenge more so than the physical challenge. Now don""t jump to conclusions that now video games can suddenly qualify for mind sports. Like I said before, video games take no skill or strategy. My opponent claims that he/she watches replays to improve himself/herself. That isn't strategy. Anyone can do that, what I was asking is if my opponent watched videos of the opposite team that he/she is going to play to narrow down the supposedly ""plans"" and ""strategies"" they have. I doubt that my opponent creates complex plans that have more than four parts to them which proves that video games do not have the amount of strategy that it takes to win at chess. Video games have only simple strategies that do not even qualify to be in a mind sport. Thirdly I'd like to ask how complicated your strategies are in CSGO. Are they really more complicated than ""flanking the other team"" or ""setting up an ambush""? I doubt it otherwise my opponent would have backed his/her point with explaining one of these ""complicated"" strategies. I doubt that when you play CSGO that you're thinking ""Oh, we have to set up a three pronged attack"". My opponent obviously has a very odd way of playing video games. Fourthly I'd like to ask how playing against a professional CSGO player has anything to do with proving that video games require skill. If I played against a professional CSGO player I probably wouldn""t do very well but I'd still be able get a few kills. That's because the game is partly luck based. Now let""s have that professional CSGO player play some one on one field hockey with me. I would destroy him/her and he/her would never get a single goal because sports are not luck based. That's another difference between video games and sports. Now let's let this professional CSGO player play against a professional tennis player and the tennis player play CSGO. It would probably come out the same as with me. The tennis player would get some kills. Now let""s get on to the professional CSGO player playing tennis. With the supposedly ""amazing reaction"" skills that this professional CSGO player should have then it should be a no brainer that this'll be an even match right? No, not right, not even close. The professional CSGO player would only be able to look as the professional tennis player got ace after ace after ace. Voters, the difference between a sport and a video game is literally that the video game is the lazy version of sports. Video games are like a mod. You apply them to sports and suddenly sports are easy when all you""re doing is looking at a screen moving your fingers. Fifthly we have to draw a line between what""s a sport and what's not. Technically piano could qualify to be a sport if video games were allowed to be a sport. The piano takes a lot of mental focus and skill to be able to perform well. It is competitive and it has more physical exertion than video games. So why isn""t piano a sport? Because piano doesn""t have enough physical exertion to qualify just like video games. If we don't draw a line between what's a sport and what""s not then academics could be the next thing wanting to qualify as a sport."	PRO	903
903	Sf15bcb4a-A93434af7	Microtransactions Should Be Banned in Video Games	"Yes, Microtransactions did originate in free-to-play games such as Candy Crush Saga, and in the past, it was a source of secondary income. Not anymore. These days, companies with free-to-play games are always looking for ways to get the consumer to spend more money. Take the tutorials in these games. They provide you with a premium currency, then makes you spend it to speed things up/buy premium items/open land etc. . This ingrains a habit within your mind that when you are faced with the same situation, you'll make the same purchase. But oops, turns out you don't have enough of that premium currency to do the action, so 8 times out of 10, people will buy more premium currency. Other games also lure you in with its microtransactions. ""Final Fantasy All The Bravest"", a mobile iteration of the popular ""Final Fantasy"" series, has a system of progression that is gambling in everything but name. Players pay a dollar a pop to unlock one of 35 characters, doled out randomly. If there's one you especially want, or need to progress in the game, you could be looking at spending $35 or more. (1) We shouldn't have companies try to deceive our way of thinking just in the purpose of making a quick dollar. What companies should be doing is keeping its players around by its exciting gameplay, not by forcing them to pay money just to have fun in their games. Thank you for arguing in this debate. My very first debate has been really eye-opening to the ways that I can improve my overall debating skills. I thank you AdmiralSn4ckb4r for being a worthy opponent and I can't wait to see your final response :)."	PRO	904
904	Sfb5d4752-A480804d3	Contender chooses topic (Video Games)	Well, here we go. Rebuttals =============== 3. Innovation Um... I hope you know what innovation means . Innovation: something new or different introduced Nothing to do with with prices or timeliness. As for the other argument, here is my rebuttal: It seems cheaper and better to buy games from a franchise that only comes out every so often, but here are some downsides. First, losing appeal. With 4-5 years between each installment, what happens when you get bored of the new installment? There isn't a lot of other games to choose from, and a new installment won't come out for a while. With a series with a lot of installments you can go to the store and get another game, or, you could wait for the next installment, which will come out in a little bit. Second, up to date software. If you play a game from a franchise that doesn't release games too often, you are stuck with an outdated game for a while. Think about it, they can't improve the graphics or the gameplay with a patch or update, they need a new game to keep the games up to date. While a series that releases games every year can stay up to date, let's be honest, who doesn't want to play an awesome game with the newest graphics, gameplay mechanics, and the fastest frame rate? 1. Multiplayer You can also play with your friends around the world on console in a private room. You can play with your buddies around the world, you don't all have to be in the same room. There are also small maps for newbies to play in. 1. Marketing and Business We are debating about which game is better. Being able to make easy money on CS is cool, but it doesn't enhance the gameplay. May I remind you of my analogy with the McDonald's monopoly campaign. It makes it more worthwhile to go there, but it doesn't make the food or the establishment better.	CON	905
905	S55e10797-A6eea6b74	Resolved: Violent video games cause increased aggressive behavior	Meta-analytic reviews Con claims that meta-analytic reviews show that methodologically superior studies show that video games do cause violence. However, many meta-analysis studies which show that there is a link between video gaming and violence are plagued with publication bias and methodological problems, such as citing studies which were not published or selecting certain studies and ignoring others. (http://www2.psych.ubc.ca...) 2. Non-Laboratory results A survey is not a study: it can be affected by the personal biases of teachers and students. As the teachers knew which students whose violent behaviors they were rating, the survey that pro cited was not sufficiently blinded. (http://drdouglas.org...) Also, many experts, parents, and paediatricians agree that violent video games do not cause violence. (http://www.theguardian.com...) If the survey that pro cited were to be counted as valid evidence, then this should be too. One of the methodological flaws of using labratory results is that the violent clips and video game content are often served to the groups of youth outside of their contexts; the entire narrative of the violent work of fiction was not provided. This is different than in real life situations. (http://www.independent.co.uk...) 3. Crime Rates Pro claims that crime rates decreased in spite of violent media becoming more popular. I propose an alternative idea: violent media has nothing to do with crime rates. Studies have shown that the one thing that correlates with crime is gasoling lead levels. (http://www.ricknevin.com...)	CON	906
906	S6d9eb665-A137ab7ef	new generation video games give a better experience, opposed to older games	My opponent has offered great points. He has put up the points of age, history and game play experience I shall start with age. Although you have made a valid point of saying that older gamers and younger gamers cannot be mixed into the same generations, but what he is saying is a generalisation of what many gamers believe to be the factions of age. Let’s use his example of the 40 year old. “If we try to take a gamer that is 40 years old and get him to play some of the new games, it won't offer the same experience that some of the older games gave him. He would remember the glory days of snes, super Nintendo, and Atari”. We are likely to see that the 40 year old would prefer the “good old days”. But what cannot be said is that younger gamers have a higher possibility of not enjoying older games. Franchises like Nintendo have incorporated their older games for download via the internet so there is plenty of possibility for them to like the game. There are also emulators that can play for example the first link or the old Pokémon. http://www.youtube.com... This point has strong evidence to support me and my opponent’s case. Therefore age cannot truly be a factor of whether or not newer games give a better experience or older ones. Game development The games development is an important part of the experience as stated in my pervious argument. My adversary seems stuck on the point that the story line and graphics are far better with newer games. Graphics are a non arguable fact. As time goes by graphics will always get better, this cannot be argued. I would like to say that I did not ramble on about the new graphics, I clearly stated that “Development in technology enable developers to create more realistic looking and sounding characters”. This can be considered only one point made about graphics. I also said that humans react to something better if it is more realistic, my link of the psychology page should have clarified that. Now, addressing the point that my opponent made about plot. He has clearly chosen one of the best games later generations had to offer, it has a well done plot and great characters. However it seems to be missing that flare, the spark that makes you feel truly emotional. I would like to use my example of mass effect, to be specific mass effect 2. Like my opponent I will explain the basic plot. You are the Human spectre Commander Sheppard, patrolling the edges of human territory, when your ship comes under attack by an unknown force. The Normandy is left as scrap and you are presumed dead by the systems alliance. Your corpse is picked up by the terrorist organisation Cerberus and they restore you to the great solider you once were. You are then on a mission to find out why these unknown creatures are after humans and their purpose for obtaining them. You build up your crew, strengthening your fight against the collectors. New and old crew members are incorporated into the game. As you build up your relationship with the characters on board the Normandy and other characters, the game continually throws curve balls forcing you to pick sides with crew members with possible detrimental outcomes later in the game. You will become attached to your crew and very decisions made or dialogue choice opened seems difficult as you yourself are changing the universe around you. All the decisions made are counted and remembered as the final mission begins. I will not tell you the ending and how it ends because it is different for every player however I will provide a demographic on the final mission. http://img203.imageshack.us... or http://social.bioware.com... Perhaps you have me beat on the music area; the sounds are iconic and original as a music lover I cannot contest the quality, perhaps I should not bow to my opponent but I cannot deny the truth that the music is still as good as it is and was. This however does not change the rest of my argument. “Old games paved the way for new games” This statement is true to some extent, you have to start from somewhere but perhaps this may throw a spanner in the works. When Nintendo made the Nes it was a hit in the market, it made millions and made companies millions but they had strict rules when it came to becoming a partner with Nintendo. “Nintendo would only permit licensees to sell carts made by Nintendo itself; cash in advance, with a minimum order of 10,000. Games licensed for NES had to be console exclusives for two years after launch, and each company was limited to just five games a year”. If these consoles and their games where to pave their way for the Future of Gamming, then we could have had many more ideas put into practice. Nintendo at the time ruled the market and as my link shall show reported to rip of their customers, their business partners and an entire nation. This strict rules did not guarantee that the games was a success, if they were that was great but if they fell flat they cash out of pocket a possible 10,000 unwanted games and another lump sum to look forward to. Not only this they had to be console exclusives for two years and with Nintendo ruling the market there really wasn’t any competition. http://www.abc.net.au... AS we can see the rules have changed and game makers and developers are free to release to multiple platforms and are set at a market based value of consumption and price. This gives them the ability to free roam and explore the art of video gaming that’s why new generation games offer a better experience. They are not held by constraint but are allowed to develop their game to fit their style. To sum up I resist the remarks of my opponent saying that I will not be able to show that new generation games are better. I believe I have the ability to convince many that new games are better.	PRO	907
907	Sfadd659c-A15906722	Are video games corrupting children	Sad we've been debating heatedly at each other yet not one person voted. The reason I listed those two deaths however, is because the parents were so addicted to the video game they forgot their responsibilities. The kids who shot their parents were so addicted to it they wanted them out of the way to get their game back. The reason the kids get violent over a game is because they are so used to slashing and murdering they view it as normal. Nice debate we had.	PRO	908
908	S8c8aedfe-A7549b67d	As parents, we would ban children from playing video games depicting women in skimpy costumes	"In round 2, pro states ""My first argument is that these representation of women enforces the belief or the culture that women are present merely as sex symbols"" The point of a video game is to make it realistic for the gamer to play and enjoy. So when they give female characters these short and revealing costumes they're only trying to give the gamer a realistic experience. Because there are real females out there who dress in short, revealing clothes in public. Also the gaming industry is dominated by males, which is probably why there are females in little to no clothes in video games, maybe this is how males in the video game business to catch people's attention. My opponent is wrong when she/he says this, No (male) will ever look at a female character and think of it as a ""sex symbol"". also in round 2, pro states... ""This is exaggerated by physical oversexualisation like impossibly wide hips and chests. Kids unconsciously register this and grow up with this female stereotyping"". Now days a lot of females tend to get plastic surgery, making them get wider hips, bigger chests, and bigger buttocks. So not only video games give kids this idea of females having, bigger everything but real women out there in the public do to. With their fake ""features"", younger males would confirm that the type of females in video games is exactly like the type of women you can find in real life. ""the camera is always someone showing part of her butt and the suggestive sway of her hips in the catsuit as she walks."" There are a lot of women out there who sway their hips while walking. It not something only females in video games do, for a lot of them do it, just go out into the public and see for yourself. In Conclusion, We shouldn't ban these types of games from our children because it's not really gonna change anything. There's both females with short and revealing clothes in both video games and the public It's been a great debate pro, i apologize for forfeiting round 2."	CON	909
909	Sd672d38d-A58a25c55	Violent Video games should be ban	"Don't focus in America focus in the whole world. An 8-year-old boy intentionally killed a 90-year-old woman when he shot her in the head inside a Louisiana mobile home after playing a violent video game, police said. But the child won""t be charged with a crime. The boy fatally shot his elderly caregiver, Marie Smothers, after playing ""Grand Theft Auto IV"" "" a video game critics often blame for promoting violence "" inside the mobile home at a Slaughter, La., trailer park Thursday evening, police said. Smothers was sitting in a chair and watching television when the unidentified boy fired one round into the back of her head, the East Feliciana Parish Sheriff""s Office said. The violent video game is considered inappropriate for children 17 and under. CATE GILLON/GETTY IMAGES The violent video game is considered inappropriate for children 17 and under. The boy was taken into custody at the scene, but later released to his parents, because Louisiana state law prevents children under 10 from being charged with a crime. ""You have a child that does not know the impact or the consequences of the act that he has committed,"" Sclynski Legier, an attorney, told WAFB-TV. ""He truly doesn""t understand that."" The child initially told investigators that he accidentally shot Smothers while playing with the loaded pistol. But police later determined the elderly woman was targeted. Cops said the 8-year-old boy had just finished playing ""Grand Theft Auto IV"" - a video game critics blame for encouraging violence - before he fatally shot a 90-year-old woman. WWW.WAFB.COM Cops said the 8-year-old boy had just finished playing ""Grand Theft Auto IV"" - a video game critics blame for encouraging violence - before he fatally shot a 90-year-old woman. Cops didn""t reveal a motive for the killing, but said that the boy was close to the woman he allegedly shot. ""By accounts of relatives of the victim, as well as friends of the family, the victim and the juvenile had a normal, loving relationship,"" police officials said in a statement to The Advocate. Investigators found that the boy had just finished playing the video game that police called ""a realistic game that has been associated with encouraging violence and awards points to players for killing people."" That's why the other countries banned GTA. It's an example."	PRO	910
910	S8b8b07a3-A25b80870	Competitive video games are a sport.	"Hey, hope you accept my challenge, you seem to have strong opinions on the subject matter so I'd like to see your reasoning. By accepting you agree that- We're only talking about competitive gaming, where it's people against each other competing. Notable examples of competitive games are League Of Legends, CSGO, Starcraft, and Dota 2. The definition for sport will be: ""an athletic activity requiring skill or physical prowess and often of a competitive nature, as racing, baseball, tennis, golf, bowling, wrestling, boxing, hunting, fishing, etc."" (1) If you do not accept either of the stipulations, say so in the comments. If you do accept both, please write your first round debate. Thank you. (1)- http://www.dictionary.com..."	PRO	911
911	Sc25c7b05-Ab2b44a88	Video gaming is good for Brain	We are debating on its effect on brain but Addiction is just a behaviour and being a violence is a nature but still I am giving my arguments Addiction is the continued repetition of a behaviour which can include any thing , and not only limited to drug abuse and video gaming. It may be a food addiction, exercise addiction, and many other addiction. As we know, coding and programming are good for brain but some people have a addiction of it, they like doing coding and programming and all time they were busy with their coding and programming stuffs, this doesn't mean that coding is harmful for brain or solving maths problem and doing research on particular topics may consider as addiction. Same logic applicable to video games. It may be some of video games is violent but there are many other video games which are considered as good for brain and really they are good. And at last, according to your arguments debating is also an addiction therefore it is harmful for your brain.	PRO	912
912	Sc81471b3-A96279457	Are sports better than video games	You can get different experiences playing different games, wheras playing one sport tends to feel the same as playing another. You could play Super Mario Bros for a more nostalgic feel, you can play CoD or BF on multiplayer for an average multiplayer experience, or you could play Super Smash Brothers for challenge and fast pace. There's also lots of scary games like Amnesia and Silent Hill. You could also play Sonic the Hedgehog or Kirby for a more casual feel.	CON	913
913	Sabafce57-A6fdfc895	violent vidieo games are bad	I think violent video games are bad! Why does violent video games has to be in this world? It makes people more violent and it does not give help to others! so it has to disappear!	CON	914
914	S69bf66d1-Af1d50b90	Anita Sarkeesian and Women in Video Games	"Just so we're clear, are you purporting that the sexism that reportedly exists is one-way or two ways? I've heard that 45% statistic before; and I counter with are male characters not sexualized intensely? Seriously; how many male protagonists in games are not indomitable stoics or the pinnacle of heroism and badassery? Mario? Link, maybe? And many are the ultimate males: Ezio Auditore, Kratos, Master Chief, Varian Wrynn, Jim Raynor, Alex Mercer, John Marston, Commander Shepard... I could go on. If all the females with big breasts, slightly higher-pitched voices and get kidnapped sometimes are negative stereotypes that reinforce, please explain why these heroes are so widely praised, or why feminists like Sarkeesian (and by proxy, you, if I may make that leap. Please correct me if I'm wrong), have no problem with them. Yes, I know the extent of her harassment. I'm not supportive of that in any way. I disagree with her, and I'd be vocal about it, but I don't get behind threats to assault, rape or kill her. Though I would ask the question where on earth 150 grand went; that's FAR more than you need to fund a project on this level. You can say that she used it to pay her bills while she worked on the project, but surely you don't expect me to believe that she needed to play all those games she posed with{1} in order to discern the sexism in each one, nor does it take over a year from when she started her kickstarter to release one 20 minute video. This is one of the problems that I consistently face in my criticisms of Anita or just the modern pseudo-feminism that has entered on the world stage, that I get tossed in with the people whose argument against feminism is ""Make me a sandwich""; we're in agreement there. However I'm not using the internet as a defense for these trolls' claims; don't misinterpret me there. I was using it as an explanation for the horrid retaliation, and making the argument that these people have an easy means to spew their anger without social consequence. It's the mob mentality, combined with the safety of anonymity and the increasing desensitization of our culture, that fuels the intense hatred. I cited the example of a Call of Duty producer getting hundreds of death threats because he made one, nearly insignificant change to the sniper rifles in the game. Nor is he the only one[2]: Ted Cruz, Selena Gomez... nearly every celebrity on the internet has been issued death threats for one reason or another, and I can't recall a case where the person carried through with it. Even the Steubenville rapists, who had their home addresses, social security numbers and phone numbers posted online by Anonymous and Knightsec[3], weren't sent bombs or had anyone come to kill them. And the internet loathedthem with a contempt that's rare even for it. Internet threats are nothing to be concerned about; the easiest thing to do, and to show that you're not afraid, is to let them flow and eventually they burn down. [1]: http://farm8.staticflickr.com... [2]: http://www.slate.com... [3]: http://jezebel.com..."	CON	915
915	S2428564f-Af6364437	video games are entaining and are fun they arnt bad in any way your also giving your fingers exercis	video games are fun and are good for children and plus it keeps them and me out of the parents way then when the child starts to go through teen ages it still plays video games but not as much because the teenager has friends to hang out with.	PRO	916
916	S269fa1e0-A82b6335e	should kids play video games	"The Affirmative has shown little argument; one sentence was scripted to their constructive. We're gonna talk about that for a little while. 1. The affirmative has listed three reasons that video games are somehow good for kids. But how do they know? The sources in their argument are nowhere to be found in the argument and the reasons are poorly constructed. 2. Hand Eye Coordination? What Hand eye coordination? More like Thumb Eye coordination. Granted, video games may improve reaction time for a Soccer Goalkeeper, but how well would a soccer goalie reach for an incoming ball if he was solely trained on pressing buttons on a console controller for his entire career. Xbox Kinect is a different story, because A) I doubt that anybody uses it today, B) the Affirmative has made no attempt to confirm the type of console the gamers would be using. 3. Social Skills. The possible social skills that could be developed by this are either playing online or in the same room, or playing with random strangers online. You can't develop social skills with close friends because those relationships have already been developed. Close friends become closer mostly through hardships and difficult periods in life. If you lose a kill streak on Call of Duty, I would have difficulty placing that in the category I described- I would identify that as something to laugh about later in life. As for connecting with random strangers, that is a dangerous game you are playing with your personal safety. Who knows how easily a predator can hide online and give/get personal info? It could be a sexual predator or a drug dealer, and this is most definitely not an ideal environment for young children and adolescents to be surrounding themselves with. 4. Improvement of Imagination? do you mean ""Improvement"" as in to stop homicidal/genocidal thoughts? I'm afraid that a first-person shooter will not improve that sort of imagination, rather than to fuel the thoughts and strengthen the killing mindset. If it means just to ""Expand"" one's imagination, that would be probably more true, because the thought of playing in a completely made-up world is quite expansive...but then again, what imagination do you use if the world is already made up for you by a corporation? Here are some stock issues Harm: As stated above, the arguments the affirmative have stated have all been proven wrong. All four points are now being provided as harms to the resolution. Inherency: There is a noticeable trend between childhood obesity and new introductions of consoles and videogames. The Center for Disease Control (CDC) research center in Atlanta, GA, has concluded statistics within this trend. """"Approximately 17% (or 12.7 million) of children and adolescents aged 2""19 years are obese ""The prevalence of obesity among children aged 2 to 5 years decreased significantly from 13.9% in 2003-2004 to 8.4% in 2011-2012. In 2011-2012, 8.4% of 2- to 5-year-olds had obesity compared with 17.7% of 6- to 11-year-olds and 20.5% of 12- to 19-year-olds.Childhood obesity is also more common among certain racial and ethnic groups. ""In 2011-2012, the prevalence among children and adolescents was higher among Hispanics (22.4%) and non-Hispanic blacks (20.2%) than among non-Hispanic whites (14.1%). ""The prevalence of obesity was lower in non-Hispanic Asian youth (8.6%) than in youth who were non-Hispanic white, non-Hispanic black or Hispanic. Note: In children and adolescents age 2 to 19 years, obesity was defined as a body mass index (BMI) at or above the 95th percentile of the sex-specific CDC BMI-for-age growth charts."" Source: http://www.cdc.gov... The trend between the two issues continues to grow at an alarming rate. Above, I have attacked the affirmative for a poor argument and turned the tables to them. And to the affirmative- If you used a poorly structured argument to expose my views to use for a school paper you have not finished, I have two things to say. 1) Credit me when your classmates see you get rest 2) Shame on you. Plagiarism is not cool."	CON	917
917	S5e625e1b-A186d1a45	Video Games Lack a Feel of 'Real Accomplishment	"Indeed, Generalized that statement was, And my feelings about it as well. And, True enough one can accomplish 'in a game. Complete all the quests, Make friends, Speed run, Explore, Compete against others in the game, Yet. . . It's all 'in the game. When a person asks themself ""How much did I matter. "" Or ""Do I matter. "" Is rank one in a 'game enough? Just the exploration 'in a game? 'Friends? Don't you feel the lack of accomplishment in that? Unfulfilled ambition? Feeling your mark has not been left deep enough in the world? What does 10, 000 gp in a game mean if you've average in life? There are people for whom games are life, Ex ""For us baseball was just a game but for Benjamin Franklin Rodriguez, Baseball was life. "" Sandlot. Professionals meanwhile, Get paid. Be it basketball or Elite StarCraft players. For me this question popped up as I thought about my own weariness of video games, As well as how I don't really care for any of the old ones much (Stuck in nostalgia). And I was wondering to myself if one created a game in this saturated market, What would make it any more appealing than any other game? So much feels the same in a way. I had two thoughts, One which 'might be a flop but I'm not mentioning, And the other being that including real world benefits with a game might appeal to people. Whether this is that the karma system donates to bad charities for evil acts, And good charities for good acts. Or that real world money, Properties, Assets, Or game time can be earned while in game. First to complete a quest in a new expansion $, King of the hill or owner of an in game city $, And so on."	PRO	918
918	S7a793de8-Ac170e5b2	Video Games effect children's minds in a harmful manner	The thought of video games such as GTA or CoD causing kids to go out and shoot up schools or their family is extremely ludicrous its the equivalent of saying Cooking Mama will cause kids to become cooks. While kids especially from the ages of 10 to 13 (Which is the age group I hear the most referred to in regards to this issue ) are not known for their intellect or their concept of the world, however, they aren't so dense that they can not tell the difference between the game and the real world. Plus its not like any of the games such as GTA, Hitman, CoD don't punish you for killing the innocents or any other immoral activities. Grand Theft Auto causes the police to pursue you if any civilians are killed or even if you steal their car. In the case of GTA V there is only one mission you are actually forced to kill any civilians so apart from that one mission you could go through the whole game not killing a single civilian .Hitman will deduct points for killing innocents and actually rewards you if you don't kill anyone except for the person you are meant to kill. In the case of CoD you are a soldier like in the real world and you don't kill any civilians only soldiers from the other army which is what soldiers do in the real world. In the game modes in which you can kill your team mates you are punished if you do it by getting kicked from the game if you kill 3 of your team mates.	CON	919
919	Sd7c5a1e8-Adaff89f8	Accept if you dare #1: 3D games are better than 2D games	Let's look at the harms that 2-D games have done and observe whether 3-D games are likely to mitigate these harms or amplify them. (1) Video-game addiction involves an addiction to 2-D games. http://www.video-game-addiction.org... It is often linked to both the adrenaline rush and the good graphics of games that draw you in. These are only amplified if the game is 3-D and you both feel more fear by things seeming to come 'out of the screen' at you since the adrenaline rush would only be increased. (2) The link between video-games and violence. http://www.deseretnews.com... Video games no only host violence within them but even the ones that don't are based around the philosophy of valuing one's own pleasure over their real-life duties. The entire gaming community enjoy escaping reality and their duties, both domestic and professional, by entering an alternate world where none of the rules apply; not even even the laws of physics. This gradually decreases one's capacity for self-control. If games are 3-D, they'd only increase the extent to which they 'draw you in' and so the effects would only be amplified. (3) Games are played on a 2-D surface, so it makes more logical sense for the game to be 2-D.	CON	920
920	Sc0010d7e-Ac111a890	THB that the government should regulate the amount of TV and video games children watch	"ok you want ""substantial evidence"" here it is Dallas - A 7-year-old Dallas boy copying a move he saw in televised pro wrestling killed his 3-year-old brother, police said on Thursday. Dallas police said the older boy slammed his little brother to the floor with a running straight-armed punch to the neck in late May. ""He said he had seen it on pro wrestling on cable television and he thought that his brother was just gonna get up,"" police spokesman Officer Gabriel Grimes said, referring to the 7-year-old. The maneuver is called a ""clothesline"" or ""lariat"" in the violent and flashy world of televised wrestling. The incident, which police said occurred on May 23 or 24, came to light on Thursday when it was reported by the Dallas Morning News. more you ask well here you go: A 15-year-old video-game fanatic accused of killing his parents and three younger siblings because he was mad at his mom will be tried as an adult, a New Mexico prosecutor announced Tuesday. Nehemiah Griego was being held without bail in a juvenile facility as authorities revealed that he was ""unemotional"" when talking about the massacre but perked up when he talked about his love of violent games, including ""Modern Warfare"" and ""Grand Theft Auto."" ""It was kind of what he was into and was quite excited as he got the opportunity to discuss that with investigators,"" Bernalillo County Sheriff Dan Houston said a news conference. he said,"" It was kind of funny, i was thinkin bout this one mission on COD it was freakin insane but i thought they were gonna respawn in like 5 seconds."" An estimated 12.5 million children between the ages of 2 and 19 are obese, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Although genetics and diet play pivotal roles in childhood obesity, the CDC also notes that passive media viewing can contribute to this epidemic. That said, sitting in front of the screen playing video games can play a part in your child developing a weight problem. Although your child may say that he's ""playing"" a video game, what he is doing may look more like sitting than other play-type activities. Unlike playing on a playground, playing at the park or playing a sport, playing a video game is largely passive for most children. Similar to TV viewing, the passive aspect of video game play takes away from true physical activity and may lead to weight gain. For example, the American Academy of Pediatrics -- on its HealthyChildren.org website -- notes that children who watch five or more hours of TV per day have a four-and-a-half times greater risk of being overweight than those who watch two hours or less. My opponent also states that the children might miss out on educational programming but scientist have proven that a child with more human contact will better the childes life in the long run because parents usually speak 200 words an hour to their child when the TV is on but a family that does not regularly have the TV on speaks about 1000 words per hour. so not only have video games proven to be a complete waste of time but they also have proven to decrease the growth of a child"	CON	921
921	S6451c25f-A28c0e9c4	Video games count as free speech, and should be protected under the First Amendment.	Thank you for accepting, I will jump right into my argument. First, and foremost, I shall try to dispute the idea that exposure to violence is causing people of easy influence (Kids and the like) to act violent themselves. I am not going to try to argue that certain games are not violent, because that argument would be as moot as it is wrong. In my opinion, which is backed by many and opposed by many as well, it is not video games which have been causing us to believe there is an increase in crime, but it is the fact that reporting violent news has become easier than ever. In fact the crime rate is the lowest it has been in 30 years [1] (I wrote that 2 days ago, I have been a hospital since then, I humbly forfeit on the grounds that I am in no mental, physical, nor the emotional state to make sense.)	PRO	922
922	Sfb5d4752-A6f9b79f1	Contender chooses topic (Video Games)	"Rebuttals ================= 3. Innovation (#3 because that was the original number) While, yes, CS has had more improvements between installments compared to COD, you have to remember that CS games took a lot of time to release, while COD games were released pretty quickly. I will supply a list of the games, and you'll see what I'm talking about. COD: 2003 COD, United Offensive: 2004 COD, Finest Hour: 2004 COD 2, The big red one: 2005 COD 3: 2006 COD, Roads to Victory: 2007 COD, World at War: 2008 COD, Modern Warfare 2: 2009 COD, Zombies: 2009 COD, Black Ops: 2010 COD, Modern Warfare: 2011 COD, Black Ops Zombies: 2011 COD, Black Ops 2: 2012 COD, Black Ops 2, Declassified: 2012 COS Strike Team: 2013 COS, Ghosts: 2013 COD, Advanced Warfare: 2014 [1] Now I will list the CS games CS: 1999 CS, Neo: 2003 CS, Condition Zero: 2004 CS, Source: 2004 CS, Online: 2008 CS, Global Offensive: 2012 [2] As you can see there is one COD game per year, while the CS games are released from time to time. Since CS games are release with time in between them, they can make use of the technology they didn't have years ago. For example, I bet they have better graphic technology in 2012, compared to 2008. COD still makes improvements, but they are a lot more subtle, since the games are released every year. However, COD is still above CS when it comes to graphics, rendering Pro's point useless. Plus, when I said ""Both series don't really innovate that much,"" I was talking about GAMEPLAY wise. Not just graphics. Advances on graphics isn't innovation, it's improvement. 1. Multiplayer Pro tries to make PCs look like they have local multiplayer, but they don't. When I say local multiplayer, I mean multiplayer on the same system. PCs don't have that since you can't share a keyboard In a FPS, while consoles can have multiple controllers connected to the system and have a good split screen, so you can have your friends play with you at your house. Pro also says you can have a private match on CS, while in COD you don't. Well, there is a private match option you can use in COD, and you can invite your friends to play with no one on the Internet joining. Pro tries to say that COD and CS are meant to be competitive. If they were meant to be competitive, how come there are non-competitive game modes in COD? This is to cater to the people who actually want to have fun at parties or just play non-competitively. Pro also tries to do disprove my point about the bigger maps improve the gameplay. Well, how fun is it if people are just camping? It's hard to camp in a large map, since there's a lower chance of players coming into their line of sight. 1. Marketing and Business (That's right, 2 number 1s...) This does not necessarily make the game better. Sure, you can get good stuff and sell it, but what are really the odds of getting a high value item. Very slim. If you are able to get one, good for you, but it doesn't make the gameplay better, just a fun little reward gimmick. Just like McDonald's monopoly promotion, the promotion doesn't make the restaurant better, it just makes you go and eat there more. Sources ================== [1]: Google Search: List of COD games (brings up timeline) [2] Google Search: List of CS games (brings up timeline)"	CON	923
923	Saf4a656-A59102b3	Resolved: Video Games should not have sequels as a matter of principle	Framework Once again judges, extend the entire framework argument, both BOP and the framework itself through to the end of the debate. Pro accepted the full brunt of the BOP, and effectively dropped the framework itself, tacitly accepting it. Therefore that too must be extended. As a brief reminder, of the argument, Pro bears the full BOP, meaning that if he doesn’t effectively prove his case, he loses by default. Further, the framework I provided in R2 was: “Unless Pro can prove that the video game industry should not make sequels for video games across the board (and thereby following the rule governing its behavior, as the definition of ‘principle,’ stipulates), Pro has not fulfilled his BOP and upheld the resolution in its entirety, and therefore cannot win the debate.” This framework is extended, once again, for the reason provided above. Pro’s Case Contention 1 - Call of Doody Extend this argument, Pro concedes this contention. Contention 2 - Lack of imagination leads to stagnation. Judges, Pro’s response to my rebuttal ultimately fails to adequately defend his now only remaining contention. This is due to a couple of reasons. First, Pro drops the argument that he inadequately proves a causal relationship between sequels and stagnation. He still only relies on throwing a single article at the issue to defend his position, one that, as described below, leaves us with a nonunique and lesser impact than the ones posited by myself. As such, the contention should fail immediately. Further, he still fails to provide an explicit link between sequels and a lack of imagination. Without this link, we have no reason to continue any further with this contention. However, if the above issues taken are not convincing, Pro still hasn’t addressed the nonunique argument properly. Here, the defense that he provides is abusive to the debate, and should be discounted. First, Pro clearly is attempting to shift the goalposts, declaring that now his position is merely that new IP is beneficial. This is simply a blatant lie. The resolution agreed to is an active statement that video games SHOULD NOT have sequels. He is NOT defending the position that new IP is beneficial. Second, though, Pro raises the very first contradictory statement to the framework I provided in R2, it is too little too late, as, per the rules, he cannot raise new arguments in R4, making it abusive to address framework now, even if only indirectly. And, on top of that, Pro dropped the framework in the last round, automatically accepting and extending it through to the end of the debate. It’s far too late, and abusive, to contradict it now. Third, the fact remains that any sort of impact Pro has provided is clearly nonunique to sequels, and is further quite small. Being cyclical, this impact that Pro attempts to argue is ultimately useless, as the impact is not lasting in any capacity. Con’s Case Contention 1a - Video games are an art form, and should be treated as such. Extend, as Pro previously accepted. I will note that this acceptance also includes the acceptance of the implicit criteria that video games should be treated as art. Contention 1b - Art uses sequels effectively, and so do video games. First, once again, Pro tries to contradict the framework that he dropped earlier in the debate. However, see the above statements on why this should be ignored: namely, he cannot address it after he dropped it and it was noted he dropped it, and that it’s abusive to allow him to argue it now. Second, Pro tries to, once again, unfairly shift the BOP to me. He goes so far as to say that it’s my case/BOP to prove that video games should have sequels, when this couldn’t be farther from the truth. My role within this debate, as Pro has agreed, is simply to negate Pro’s case and the resolution. In theory, I do not even have to make any contentions myself. Indeed, these contentions are purposed to do just that: negate the resolution by showing a capacity for sequels to be good, thus negating the drastic action Pro posits per the resolution, the definitions, and the framework that has extended thus far. As such, this attack is defended and the contention stands strongly. Extend it. The impact of this contention, to bring it back into perspective, is the violation of the criteria that games should be treated as the art they are: here, the implementation of an arbitrary restriction. Contention 2a - Video game sequels allow for a wider audience to be attracted to an IP over time. Pro’s attack here largely fails in that the importance of 2a is, in part, its link to 2b, which he conceded to. Basically, not only do we have an impact here of sequels expanding fanbases, but with contention 2b we see that larger fanbases increase a sense of community as a second, also strong impact. As such, Pro misses the point of this subpoint, and this contention should be extended. Contention 2b - A large audience engenders a large sense of community. Extend this contention due to Pro’s concession, and see above for its impact calculus. Conclusion In short, judges, Pro’s case fails in that he does not fulfill his BOP (which he accepted), nor does he fulfill the framework of the debate (which he dropped). His contentions relied largely on subjective opinions and nonunique, unlinked, and insignificant impacts, and his attacks against my case either missed the point, were weak in general, or were abusive. This alone negates the resolution per the framework. However, further, my case as Con still stands as alluded to just above. My case demonstrated several impacts, all of which had a lasting impact on video games unlike Pro’s: by affirming the resolution, we impose an arbitrary restriction on an art form that should be treated like all the others, we lose the means at attracting more gamers and larger fanbases, and we lose the ability of engendering a stronger sense of community among these gamers/fans. As such, and in conclusion, the resolution is negated once more. Thank you.	CON	924
924	Sc0010d7e-Aea582169	THB that the government should regulate the amount of TV and video games children watch	Extend all arguments made by me in round two. I will go through my opponents main arguments in the first speech and tell you why you should vote for me. TV and video games distort reality. A distortion of reality is never always a bad thing. A distortion is an exaggeration. For example, many of the claims made in global warming videos are a distortion of reality. However, the compelling message persuades people to do a good deed. Thus, the distortion of reality is not always a bad thing. The majority of games children play are violent Most violent videogames my opponent is referring to is rated mature, thus the person who purchased it must have been mature. The sad thing however, is that adults are buying these games for children to play. However, for the government to regulate who plays what videogames at what time is a violation of the 4th amendment. If my opponent advocates the banning of all violent videogames, it is an infringment on the first amendment. However, if my opponent advocates for the control of who plays what, it would be an infringment on the 4th amendment because 1) they would have to know who is in the house playing the game. They would literally be watching who plays the game at what time, which is a violation of the 4th amendment since playing videogames is not a crime. it has been proven that tv and video games influence obesity rates Food increases obesity. Should we regulate that? Computer programmers sit in front of a computer every day for 10 hours. Should they lose their jobs just because they might gain weight? No! Here is why you should vote for me: My opponent has failed to uphold his burden of proof that the government should regulate internet. My opponent has failed to uphold two of his arguments and provide links to all of his arguments. He has never explained why the distortion of reality is bad. He has never explained why exposure to death is bad. He has never even explained why violent games should be regulated other than the simple fact that someone who killed another was interested in CoD. That is also an example of casuation and not causation. There are many people who were very violent that did not play videogames. My opponent spent the entirety of his speech defending his side, while forgetting to argue any of my points. For these reasons, vote for me.	PRO	925
925	Sccecc0ad-A1d8b3dde	Games do not cause people to become violent.	"Observation: Since the resolution is ""games do not cause people to become violent"" All I have to prove is that in some cases and some studies violence happens from video games I will just respond to his one and only argument.. which is literally just video games don't cause violence well I have proof it has. On April 20, 1999, two seniors walked into their Colorado high school carrying assault rifles, and they opened fire. They shot dozens of people, killing 12 students and one teacher, and the nation was floored. School shootings had happened before, but this was a new scope of carnage, and in the ensuing search for answers it came out the shooters had spent a lot of time playing violent video games [source: Ward]. http://electronics.howstuffworks.com... Since then, in the wake of each new, senseless massacre, the entertainment proclivities of the shooters are one of the first things reported by the press. The 20-year-old who killed 20 first-graders and six educators at Sandy Hook Elementary in Connecticut in 2012 played violent video games. So did the 24-year-old who shot dozens of people in an Aurora, Colo., movie theater that same year [source: Jaccarino]. http://electronics.howstuffworks.com... So yeah these are some examples of cases from video games. Video games increase the chance of someone killing another person because they learn more about violence and tactics that could be used against another person. Movies fit here as well violent or sexual movies can result in someone doing violent or sexual actions earlier. I am not saying violent video games 100% of the time result in killings, if that was true America would be a war zone, I am just saying playing video games can cause some people to become violent and as I will provide in a second the violence doesn't have to be a shooting. Here are some studies/examples of video games causeing certain forms of violence. Increasing reports of bullying can be partially attributed to the popularity of violent video games. The 2008 study Grand Theft Childhood reported that 60% of middle school boys who played at least one Mature-rated game hit or beat up someone, compared to 39% of boys that did not play Mature-rated games Playing violent video games increases aggressive behavior and arousal. [27] A 2009 study found that it takes up to four minutes for the level of aggressive thoughts and feelings in children to return to normal after playing violent video games. It takes five to ten minutes for heart rate and aggressive behavior to return to baseline. Video games that show the most blood generate more aggressive thoughts. When blood is present in video games, there is a measurable increase in arousal and hostility. Conclusion: I agree that this violence can be avoided but what you have to understand is that it still causes killings to happen for some people. It's kind of like with smoking. Some people end up smoking if they hang around friends who smoke but others can resist peer pressure. I am not saying remove video games I am just trying to prove that for some people it increases violence and results in violent actions. I agree it can be avoided but all I have to prove on my side that video games can/have caused some to be violent. Also video games can cause some people to feel happiness by causing pain to theirs as well. Video games can result in more knowledge on violence and influences in certain areas just like movies. Movies and video games are almost the same thing just people play the video games. Both can influence the mind and actions."	CON	926
926	Sf6d610e8-A235b5e1	The playing of video games has done more harm than good to society.	My argument is that the playing of video games has had deterimental effects to society. To my opponent, and others who will following this debate, I would like you to know that I am not saying that gaming has had no positive effects but I am saying the positive effects it has had are outweighed by the negatives. I look forward to an entertaining and captivating debate as this will be my debut on this site.	PRO	927
927	S9b9e68e4-A62e7a9e0	Playing Video Games are greater in benefits than reading Fiction Books.	I accept. Definitions Video Games: an electronic game in which players control images on a television or computer screen Benifits: a good or helpful result or effect Fiction Books: written stories about people and events that are not real : literature that tells stories which are imagined by the writer Sources http://www.merriam-webster.com... http://www.merriam-webster.com... http://www.merriam-webster.com...	CON	928
928	S117d4c1a-A391b2615	Violent video games really cause bad behavior in children.	"I agree with you. I meant to comment but accidentally accepted your debate challenge. UGH. Im sorry, but, since I have no choice, I will play devils advocate. My argument? I have played many violent video games and I dont do anything violent at all. Im all ""free love"" lol."	CON	929
929	S5547489c-A1abcdf3	Should teens be able to buy violent video games and why	Yes you are right about not taking risk but yet we should because if we are going to grow up and let us do what we want and what we can do then we should be able to buy our video games if people are going to take care of themselves then we should be able to make decisions for ourselves. In my opinion I think we should no matter what.	PRO	930
930	S5547489c-A6dfced78	Should teens be able to buy violent video games and why	You confuse me, but I will reason with you. Let me get my point across the voters: I think that parents should decide what is right for their children. This is different than what my opponent argues - that teens should be allowed to buy and purchase whatever they like. My argument is that violent video games shouldn't be outlawed for teenagers, but should require parental consent to avoid things like increased aggressiveness and becoming less-agreeable, found in studies.	CON	931
931	Saf4a656-Ab5bc4653	Resolved: Video Games should not have sequels as a matter of principle	I'm glad my opponent has cleared this up. I was deathly confused. Welllll.... time to make my final arguments in less than an hour. Procrastination and vacations ftw. ;) Framework I'm sorry. I meant, by accepting the full BoP, that I accepted that I must prove the resolution for the whol industry. I was not attempting to avoid consenting to anything. Pro (My) Side Contention 1 - Call of Doody While I admit, this contention was first drawn because I was trying to put a more comical spin on the debate. I will concede this contention. Contention 2 - Lack of imagination leads to stagnation My opponent practically makes my case in his response to this contention. While he has been quite effective in his responses to my contentions, this one has a fatal flaw for his position. He admits that, despite it being cyclical, there is a stagnation that is related to new IP. This surge in new IP is linked to console generations, as my opponent showed. However, the fact still remains that it has been shown by my article that was referenced that the new IP is more beneficial to the system. Game developers need to take into consideration this fact when making their games. If old and redundant IP is bad but cyclical... why not just stop it altogether? We must merely acknowledge that old IP isn't as beneficial for the industry as new IP. By doing so, we have affirmed the resolution, that video games shouldn't have sequels, due to the fact that new IP is better for the industry. There is no legal action being taken upon an affirmative ballot, but rather a simple nod to the notion that new IP is beneficial to the industry as a whole. Con (his) Side Contention 1b- Art uses sequels effectively, and so do video games. Again, my opponent treats my case as if I were outlawing the creation of sequels. This is not the case, as I just mentioned. He also states that I try to give him the BoP to show how art uses sequels effectively. However, this BoP for this point is on him. I do not have to disprove his point. He has brought up a few examples of art with sequels that were used effectively. Great. This does not prove his case that video games should have sequels, and seeing that my case has been proven through the showing of new IP being beneficial vs old IP being harmful, we see that the affirmative viewpoint is better supported. Contention 2a- This argument is rendered largely irrelevant due to the fact that the stats, which show that the video game industry declines with old IP, still stands. Whether or not old IP grows a fanbase around it is totally unrelated. New IP is shown to effectively bring gamers in. Old IP does not. Conclusion While this debate was short and sweet, it shows us something very insightful about the game industry. There is a natural cycle to things. A new console arrives. It brings new IP. The new IP is shown to be beneficial. This causes the gaming industry to flourish. The years go on. The new IP is squeezed for everything it's worth... and the industry stagnates... until the next gen with new IP. All that is required is an acceptance that all new IP would be beneficial to the industry, more so than old, redundant, and worn out IP. That is all. I don't think that's unreasonable. If you don't either, then please... Vote Pro. Thank you to my opponent for this debate. I have enjoyed it. I wish him the best of luck in his final arguments and his future debates. :) Thank you.	PRO	932
932	S8c8aedfe-A7ae68d63	As parents, we would ban children from playing video games depicting women in skimpy costumes	"Short debate. 2000 characters per round. This debate uses judge voting and 7 judges have been nominated. The judges are: Wylted, Ragnar, bladerunner060, YYW, whiteflame, lannan13 and Blade-of-Truth. Whether said judges actually accept their nomination and place their vote is entirely up to them. FIRST ROUND IS ACCEPTANCE. Definition: The video games meant here are those which although not targeted just for children, they are also deemed to be appropriate for kids (14 years of age and below). These include but not restricted to the Tomb Raider series, catwoman, final fantasy and many, many more. In these video games, female characters are almost always dressed skimpily. The popular saying of ""you would think she would wear more armor' comes to mind. This of course, does not include video games which are explicitly made for adult entertainment. Nor is it an issue if kids are old enough, say around 15 years of age. This debate will not be on the role of females in the video games or how they walk, talk etc. It is only on the attire. Looking forward to a good debate."	PRO	933
933	S6451c25f-Ae20c01d0	Video games count as free speech, and should be protected under the First Amendment.	I accept your challenge. It is now your responsibility to present your argument. You can't use the Bill of Rights as an argument. You have to provide, beyond reasonable doubt, that it is wrong to distribute video games to whomever can pay for them. Put as much thought as you can into it since we have only have two more rounds. PS: Welcome to the community!	CON	934
934	S6451c25f-A7258e628	Video games count as free speech, and should be protected under the First Amendment.	"Under the First Amendment of the United States Bill of Rights, which states ""Congress shall make no law...abridging the freedom of speech..."" Video games should have the right to be distributed to whomever should want them and have the money to pay for them. I hope, this being my first debate, it is a very nice one. Good day."	PRO	935
935	S3b7f3588-Aed848041	The Way video games are demonized in the news	"Okay yes I have played these games to. But I have notice that there is more bullying,sex jokes,bad language in them than reality. This has made me concerned. Some people are fine but on minecraft were there is no blocks people can say what they want bully and not get punished because you have a shield at your identity. Some people have this behaviour in the real world. In 6th grade for me these ""jokes"" started coming a lot. For my dad it was much later. People can download free games that have violence and content that they should not be seeing. I have seen a first grader playing grand theft auto. How he downloaded it on an ipod for free. People think this is alarming and I don't blame them"	PRO	936
936	Se6d00db4-Ac32cfa38	Violent games should not be allowed for kids	"Instigator's Point: Children can be influenced by things much more easily and that consumption of violent video games causes violent behaviours. First: What causes violence in children? One research[1] concluded that violence in children is caused by two things: 1: Being domestically abused (physically or sexually), which causes stress 2: Not being able to express their emotions, which also causes stress Point: Stress is one of the main things that causes violence. [2] Research has been conducted, and the most common result that people see from playing violent video games is the reduction of stress.[3] Violent video games, particularly in the first person shooter genre, has also said to improve eyesight. [4] But video games can still influence children to be more violent right? However, studies show that video games help control violence and keep it under control. Video games helped reduce aggressiveness and bully-like habits.[5] Finally, despite the fact technology is getting better, in the present day children can still draw the line between reality and fantasy. Graphics and visuals all may be getting better, but children can still see that, indeed, it is still a game. Quoted directly from this article[6], ""As kids grow, most distinguish fantasy from reality."" Assuming that we are talking about Rated M games (Rated M for Mature, can only be bought by adults), we are going to assume that the usage of the word children refers to that of children under the age of eighteen. Any child at least at the age of six should be able to identify the line between reality and a game. We can conclude that video games are not a major reason of violence in children. I await rebuttals from my opponent. [1]http://www.awareparenting.com... [2]http://www.springer.com... [3]http://www.tamiu.edu... [4]http://www.huffingtonpost.com... [5]http://www.sciencedaily.com... [6]http://abcnews.go.com..."	CON	937
937	Se8780244-A4ab21007	schools should allow kids to play video games at break	Bullies can still attack a child on the side of the room, not interacting with peers. In fact, they are more likely to do so, as bullies almost always target the alone and defenseless, which a person playing on the computers would most definitely be both. Besides, bullies may attack the kid (for being fringe) outside of school, or may torment him at any other time during the school day, because he is so CLEARLY the out group, whereas if the child was intermingled amongst other children, he would be a harder target. And I agree that wanting to beat someone (comptetition) is a positive trait, but the amount of aggression and comptetition after playing video games is drastically increased to levels that only make cooperation all but impossible, which is also an important skill. Even team based games have relatively little teamwork, and rely mostly on the player themselves. Also, just because a child may someday, in the future, win a contest to earn modest fame does not mean that it is a justification to add thirty minutes onto the gaming schedule. Or, if you are talking about a contest within school, either mediated by the teachers or the kids themselves, there is little fame to come of that, and it is all temporary. PLus, bullies, being arseholes, are even more likely to pick on the child after winning this award, either from jealousy or because he is now even more isolated for being the sole winner. No matter what the situation, bullies are always present, a lack of attention is always present, and the need for physical and mental activity is always present. While I am certain that many voters will have come into the debate on the side of video games, I would wager to say that my arguments are both superior and better researched, as well as more logical. I would like to ask hat people vote not on their biases, but by they truly think who won the debate. Thank you.	CON	938
938	Sbe0e3c1e-Ae9f5e66	should people under 18 be able to play violent video games	true, drug addicts would not tell their kids right from wrong, but I am mainly logical, so I find it harder to think outside the box here. But, drug addicts would likely not have enough money to buy violent video games(what with all of the drugs). Bad people would not tell their kids right from wrong either, but we just have to trust that the people who buy them are responsible enough to. Thank you as well.	PRO	939
939	Sc0010d7e-A79380eac	THB that the government should regulate the amount of TV and video games children watch	No problem. First I am going to attack my opponent's framework. TV and video games distort reality. Just because something distorts reality doesn't make it a bad thing. My opponent must provide substantial evidence that the distortion of reality is bad. The majority of games children play are violent This may be true but this statement counters my opponent first contention that this distorts reality. Violent videogames show an unseen reality. It educates children on a reality unseen to the common person. Just because a reality is unseen does not make it a distortion of reality. it has been proven that tv and video games influence obesity rates First, my opponent needs to provide statistics that prove this. Second, just because something contributes to the obesity epidemic doesn't mean it should be regulated. Food increases obesity rates, however we don't regulate it. Thus, this is refuted. Now to my framework. Freedom of Speech. When you portray messages on television, it speaks a message. Whatever that message speaks, you are entitled to say it, with the exception of pornography, but that is a different reason. It has been proven that regulating what goes on television, with the Citizen's United Versus FEC, is unconstitutional. Parents decision The government is not liable to the parenting of children. If the government was to regulate what they thought was good, it would hamper the individual needs of the child, and for the government to regulate how long and what television the individual child watched would infringe upon 1st and 4th amendments (NSA!). Educational Purposes Many television shows are educational. If the government controlled how much television you watched, children might lose out on educational shows that would benefit them greatly. For these reasons, vote for me.	PRO	940
940	S8f36df61-A1d73a704	Should kids play more than 3 hours of video games a day	"Should (Ought to): used to indicate obligation, duty, or correctness, typically when criticizing someone's actions. The assertion that all children have an obligation or duty to play video games for more than three hours a day is ludicrious. What is the purpose? My opponent even states ""Some experts state that it rots your brain,"" making his claim worse."	CON	941
941	S8c8aedfe-A94000e1f	As parents, we would ban children from playing video games depicting women in skimpy costumes	Thank you to my opponent for accepting this debate and to the judges for accepting nomination. Video games are very influential on a child's development. Video games today, are seen not as a mere time-waster to spend the summers indoors, but as a very engaging and stimulating platform where kids learn to think critically, where they increase their vocab reading and listening to the audio, and where they can challenge themselves and compete healthily with peers. More and more parents allow their kids to play video games while still controlling the amount of hours spent and the material which is played. However, many parents seem to overlook that having females who are dressed in revealing attires can be very damaging to their kids. They make the excuse that kids are 'too young' to understand sexual stimulus. My first argument is that these representation of women enforces the belief or the culture that women are present merely as sex symbols. Not only do very little video games have lead heroines, the heroines that do exist (sometimes in supporting roles) choose to turn up in as little clothes as possible. This is exaggerated by physical oversexualisation like impossibly wide hips and chests. Kids unconsciously register this and grow up with this female stereotyping. This is particularly damaging to young female gamers who find a lack of female role models. This is why 'gaming' is almost entirely synonymous with a male audience. Even if you say that men sometimes turn up shirtless, the physical attributes of the male character just proves how strong he is. But when the female character is dressed skimpily, it is not to show how strong she is but merely to 'reward' the gamer by exposing more skin. In games like Lara Croft, the camera is placed at strategic angles to make sure the gamer has a good glimpse of her legs, cleavage etc. Boys and girls learn about the world through media including video games. We don't want them to view females merely as eye candy.	PRO	942
942	S739f2cb1-Ab1a10d8	Video Games are a primary source of violence	"I like your passion. I was cowering from my seat as I read your intense deep-seated argument. I had to go back to Amnesia just to make sure that the gatherers were much scarier than yours. LOL Violence and Aggression are closely akin Con states that I acknowledged my opinion as fact without evidence whilst also building up his case based on his father. What are we supposed to take as more credible? Your father(To clarify, I'm sure he is a good man ahah) or Sports Violence? You've essentially said fans are violent, display aggressive behaviors et cetera. Your own case supplements mine whilst proving nothing of your denunciation. It serves to prove my case in that Aggression leads to violence. The evidence of racist, verbal, crazy fans whom usually associates with clogging the pitch with bananas are obviously more credible as a case for violence than a feeble interpretation of his parents' behavior. Moreover, all my case are linked to each other (1.)The GAM model proves that aggressive personality over long term causes serious mental issues often leading to violence. (2.)Bandura's study was children's imitation of their center of attention, thus endorsing both GAM and ""Violence & Aggression"" point (3.)EEG scans of several studies show a correlation between aggression and violence Con seems to think my opinion is not driven by evidence but it clearly says otherwise. EEG scans are clearly objective, they forecast something similar to that of heart rate monitors. The only difference is that EEG measures the brain by looking at wavelengths[14.http://www.hopkinsmedicine.org...]. In addition to that, Bandura Ross & Ross's study was objective because the 2 conditions(Aggressive & non-aggressive) are met leaving no room for bias interpretations. GAM model has over 33 independent tests as well as 17 additional ones, all of which endorses the theory. Not even a single test refutes the hypothesis. Compare with Con's case, the majority of what he claims to be objective seems to come from youtube celebs who are gamers themselves. How do you expect them to be objective and value free when their way of life is gaming? all they did was to use politicians as scapegoats to justify their opinion. This is beyond reasonable doubt, even beyond primary source. Next, Con cites a scholastic website, where it says violence is heterogeneous. Obviously it is, the question is whether aggression leads to violence. Violence is the action of an aggression as stated previous rounds. The websites characterize severe cases as violence, such as vandalism and alcohol, an act of aggression isn't violence. My opponent resorts to semantics by refuting definitions to garner an easy win. Semantics is a piss poor way of arguing. Con accuses Bandura Ross & Ross over ageism, claiming age nullifies any experiment beyond the sample range. On what grounds? a blatant assertion without evidence. A 12 year old may not develop intelligence properly due to Autism or whatever Disorder you may list, you have to assess IQ to refute my argument, which you did not. An assertion without evidence does not qualify as a contention. Effects of video games on violence are psychologically proven So? I didn't say otherwise. You can classify games as whatever you want, whats important is its viewer base and its ability to be representative. Games are different than Movies, so what, you're telling me that there's an alternate ending to Titanic?. Con did not refute my argument and instead classified it as a sport which....doesn't prove his case or disprove my case whatsoever. Befo ====================== Concession At this moment, I have issues to attend to, I didn't realize 5 rounds could be that long. I hereby forfeit all of my arguments. Please Vote Con. Ignore my arguments, if you chose not to, then at least read it with heavy prejudice in favor of my opponent. Please award all points to Con. Thanks for the debate. I am really sorry problems sprang up at this very moment causing a terrible derailment of our debate. I will not be available on DDO so all future rounds will state as forfeiture. Sorry for wasting your time , especially having to wait 2 more rounds saying ""Opponent FF"" and that work you've done =(."	PRO	943
943	Safc96613-Ae43262c2	Guitar video games are not as useful as real guitars.	"http://www.wisegeek.com... ""This is one of the reasons that with many activities that involve the body's muscles, like playing an instrument, learning appropriate technique is always stressed. You want your muscle memory to reflect the correct way to do things, not the incorrect way. Your muscle memory can actually play against you if you've constantly been practicing something the wrong way. Music teachers often make this contention. It's a lot harder to teach someone who's been playing an instrument for a few years because the first step is breaking them of all the bad habits they've acquired, which are now part of the muscle memory. Similarly, if you learn to bat, throw, kick or pitch wrong, your muscle memory has to be overcome, and new neural pathways formed to be a better athlete."" As you can see, most music teachers, who we can consider the experts on learning an instrument, would cantend that learning improper fingering will hinder progress later on. Having no seperation for strings, and a very small number of buttons to represent frets, the controller can not possibly teach correct fingering, and can therefore only develop an improper playing habit. As for potential earnings. There is far more potential to earn money playing a guitar than a video game. Your argument contends that the most even an elite level video gamer can make is in the thousands. They are also limited solely to tournament play to earn money. Now elite level guitarists, if commercially successful, can make millions. That is better than thousands. And if not commercially successful, there are other avenue's. A street busker in a large city can make hundreds of dollars per day. That adds up very quickly when they can play almost daily in many climates. There is also the avenue of music instruction. This could be at a privately owned studio, or even a college level proffessorship. Yet another avenue is that of a session guitarist at a studio. This is just the tip of the icebergh, but should give a small indication of the variety of options available. As for replacing the guitar, that is not likely. The electric guitar did not replace the acoustic guitar, nor did the keyboard replace the piano. Keyboards and synthesizer use reached it's high point in the eighties, remained popular in the early nineties, and has declined since then. The wide variety of digital effects and processing technology today is only increasing the guitars potential and versatility. To conclude: While there may be a potential for limited productivity of the guitar video games in a tournament setting, it is but a fraction of the returns recieved on dedication to the actual instrument."	PRO	944
944	Sc48cdbc2-A367d5a99	videos games being good for you	True, but besides the positive effects video games could have. There are also negative effects through the long usage of it. If you play it all the time straight, or even 10 hours straight chances are you will get a headache. From that the body is telling you what you are doing now is damaging. Also, the brain is a very important organ in your body you really don't want something to go wrong with it. The positive effects of video games can be gained in another ways. We exist for quite some time now even before video games. Within that it is perfectly possible to use another source for education that has the same effect as video games.	CON	945
945	Sc320f565-A1ab017c6	Recent Bandai Namco Gundam Video Games should not be given positive reception	First time debating. I believe that Bandai Namco's newest Gundam related video games such as Battle Operation 2 and Gundam Versus should not be positively accepted here in the west. This is because of the DLC, Gacha system, And the laziness in the games. Unfortunately I do not have Battle Operation 2 and have only played very little of battle operation next, But from what I have seen so far the game seems to be quite anti consumer and lazy. While this game is only the third installment of the series, (third being Battle Operation Next), It does not seem to have made many or any changes from the previous installments and seems to have a system where you roll for what you get. I believe this is very poor service as the people playing the game must gamble to get the suits they want. I will admit the game seems to look better, But the graphics are still hilariously poor. Next is Gundam Versus. I have played gundam vs gundam next plus on my psp endlessly and loved it to bits, And I still do. I won't disagree, Gundam versus seems to have improved from it's predecessors with the updated visuals, Polished gameplay, And the addition of a new mechanic. They all seem very interesting. However the problem I have with this game is with the DLC. Each DLC character costs 5 dollars and with a total of 26 dlc add-ons, That adds up to 130 dollars if you want to buy all the addons. That is MORE THAN DOUBLE the price of the base game! Not only this but God gundam is a DLC character. God Gundam was a staple character in the series, But now he is blocked behuind a paywall. The roster in the base game of Gundam versus is quite large, With many new mobile suits from newer series, And stranger editions like the rock zaku. Despite all this, Some mobile suits have been excluded such as X-wing gundam, Adn again the horrendous act of locking god gundam behind a paywall. All these together give Gundam Versus has bad reputation with it's unreasonable paywalls, Removal of x-wing series and possibly other mobile suits from the previous games. A similar outcry was given by a player in Hong Kong where they complain about the lack of modes, Characters, Poor graphics, And other problems. (video in cantonese) https://www. Youtube. Com/watch? V=1l2qHMypm-c And of course gundam breaker, I have yet to see much of the gameplay but judging from the community reception, It seems to be a low quality game. TL;DR This tells me that the most recent Gundam Video games have been nothing but a cash grab and an attempt to exploit the most loyal of the gundam fanbase in order to make the most profit by producing a poor, Cheap product. I believe the new gundam games are disingenuous and should not be supported. Feel free to call me out	PRO	946
946	Sf3750c50-A1ee90d99	Violent games lead to violent actions	"I completely agree with nicksto99, Cameron's argument focuses on video games as a whole, not specifically violent video games. Also, I don't believe that coming up with an argument should just be limited to copying and pasting a news article. The American Academy of Pediatrics warned that violent media set a poor example for kids. Video games, the academy noted, ""should not use human or other living targets or award points for killing, because this teaches children to associate pleasure and success with their ability to cause pain and suffering to others."" With examples like GTA V, you get money for killing someone, allowing you to purchase more guns, vehicles, and ammo to kill even more people. Further than that, in that game, you can go on missions where you smuggle out drugs, rob banks, and be chased by police, all to be rewarded and encouraged if you accomplish those goals. Think about how these achievements can affect people, especially growing youths. You don't want people roaming around the streets with the belief that shooting someone or robbing a bank is good, just because it is in a video game. If you look at youtube or twitch gamers that play violent video games or games where you kill people, it is so common to see cursing, shouting, and raging."	PRO	947
947	Sa5088c85-A2ce932dc	Video gaming is not a sport	"Video gaming does not fit the criteria to be an actual sport. The definition of a sport is ""An activity involving physical exertion and skill in which an individual or team competes against another or others for entertainment:"" Baseball requires skill to be able to throw with such accuracy. Golf believe it or not takes a whole lot of skill to be able to hit the ball into a hole that""s four and a half inches big. Video games take sitting in a chair and holding a controller or a mouse to be good at them. That""s not a lot of skill, right? Firstly there is nothing physically exerting about sitting on a chair in front of a screen for hours on end. Sports require physical activity! If the people playing the video games were actually doing what they did on the screen in real life in some kind of monitor then that could be a sport but they""re not. Sitting on a couch in a dark room for hours on end with energy drinks piled around is not the same as playing football against a real team that""s ready to bulldoze your team into the ground just to win. The day that people think that moving your fingers is physically exhausting will be one sad day that I hope will not happen for a long time. Secondly gaming has no strategy. People say that first person shooter games have strategy like flanking the other team or setting up an ambush. But in reality most gamers usually don""t talk to their pre-assigned team. Nor do they usually work together and even when they do, it""s only to tell their teammates where the other team is. First person shooter games are all about looking through the scope of your gun a.k.a. the little dot in the middle of your screen that helps you with your aiming. There is no strategy in that. Even sports video games like Madden have no strategy. Do gamers seriously look at replays from their opponent""s team to narrow down the list of plays that they should use? I doubt it. They probably just choose the coach""s pick and coast with that. Chess is a mind sport. Video games are not. Where chess uses a complex strategy of moving chess pieces so that they will draw out the king, Street Fighter uses pressing buttons as fast as you can to beat up your opponent. That""s not much of a mind sport material. Is shooting as many people as possible in a certain time limit a lot like chess? Not really, in fact that sounds more like the front lines of a war. And most first person shooter games have none of the strategy that it takes to actually win a real war. Video games can""t even qualify to be a mind sport. Mashing the buttons on a controller until you get sore fingers and hand cramps is really not up to par with the strategy it takes to win at chess. Finally video games take no skill. If they actually required skill people would get frustrated with them because they see the game as too hard. That""s why not everyone wants to play a sport. A sport is difficult because it requires skill. Video games are easy because they require no skill. Of course there""s always those who talk about how fast gamers reactions are. Technically a gamer""s reaction is only with the move of a finger on a controller with conveniently placed buttons. Compare that to having to react with your whole body to return a tennis serve that""s going 140 mph. That is literally trying to lunge your whole body across the tennis court in less than half a second to return the serve. Think of all the goalies in sports like hockey and soccer that have to move their whole body to save a goal. The reaction time of a video gamer, even a professional is laughable compared to real sport reactions. When you really sum it up, video games are just entertainment and hobbies. Video games are not up to par with real sports. They lack the skill and physical exertion required in a sport and therefore do not qualify to be a sport."	PRO	948
948	Sfadd659c-A6197bb8d	Are video games corrupting children	I agree that food is a survival need, and so is advancement and progress. Me and my dad have debated about this many times. You cannot talk about what will happen if this happens. All it is, is speculation. Yes, there are people who live in their parents basement and do not have jobs. However, to a certain degree that is the said persons fault. If someone said that they will pay all of your expenses and give you money to get things. Would you not take it? Humans have brought a lot of the problems we face upon ourselves. If electricity was ripped off of this world than yes. there would be riots. However, we would survive and adapt. If someone is completely happy with playing nothing but games, and had the money and means of supporting it. Than by all means do what makes you happy. In the since of being social. What does it matter about if you are socializing face to face or on a computer? it is still socializing.	CON	949
949	S334bfeca-A1ca674c4	All games should be free	Video games cost money and time to make. Unless you want to see a heck ton of adds and in game purchases or starving dirt poor video game developers, you don't want that. I understand that many students cannot afford video games and that stinks, but it isn't the duty of game developers to risk their livelihood just so you can play their game. Rather students need to be given the freedom and opportunity to work. As of now anyone below the age of eighteen is basically property, if that can change the rest will fall to place.	CON	950
950	S74862f47-Acd15c823	Video games should be censored	"ok so I guess you CAN censor them, but it also states that there shall be no amendment/law that impends first amendment rights, so we can censor them, but we can't MAKE any one censor them because that would impend on the right, and because your entire argument is pretty much based off this, it makes your entire argument flawed and when I said that we were getting off topic I was specifically talking about the Nintendo subject, I'm sorry for not making it clear enough. my friend, you state that if the child is subjected to vulgar and profane language and what not for long enough, it becomes mental abuse, and even though this is off topic, I will address it. It can't be counted as mental abuse unless it's detrimental to the child's emotions, and as I again see, you have no proof that it is detrimental in any way. and yes, our definitions of 'okay' are different, but mine are based off of facts that I have proven to be facts and yours is merely your opinion, which you said ""don't matter in a debate"". We SHOULDN'T censor games .again because it would lead us to fascism, and like I asked earlier, are you really taking a fascist stance? Voters, I too promote a fair voting period and I kindly ask for a pro vote."	CON	951
951	Scc799d93-A16510e9c	Some video games are bad for kids	Now that would be the missing piece to the puzzle of catching interest to all kids which it should be the goal of big name game manufacturers. To create a game system that does that but till that actually happens high percentage of kids play inappropriate games and that's fact.	PRO	952
952	S6714f378-Ab1f57c9f	video game violence	video game violence is not wrong the children that play the games and claim that they are affected by the game just want attention. the ones that actually get violent are the abused ones. i play many violent video games and i dont have anything wrong with me. i dont want to go start a gang or rob a bank.	PRO	953
953	S55e10797-Ab0e7c532	Resolved: Violent video games cause increased aggressive behavior	"Hello. I would like to note, before I begin, I love gaming. I am an addict. But I am aware of the deleterious effects which it gives me, and would like to discuss the issue. == Definitions == Violent video games: Using a definition similar to California law, a violent video game is ""a video game in which the range of options available to a player includes killing, maiming, dismembering, or sexually assaulting an image of a human being"". (http://www.rwjf.org...) Aggressive behavior: Behavior which causes physical or emotional harm to others. It ranges from verbal abuse to physical abuse, and destruction of another's property. == Structure == In R1, CON can either state his case or merely accept. If he argues in R1, last round will be left blank (""no round as agreed upon"") by con. If he/she accepts in R1, R2 will be case--no rebuttals, and R3 and R4 will be rebuttals and defense. == Rules == If you wish to put sources in an outside link (integrate it at the end of your argument) you can do so. Putting it on a link is easier than putting it in the comments if the voters want to check and see what we're citing. Also no semantics. No trolling. This debate is pretty straightforward. Yeah that is it. Have fun. Yay..."	PRO	954
954	S6d9eb665-A2e8829f5	new generation video games give a better experience, opposed to older games	"In Closing My adversary has shown that new generation games offer a good experience, but has failed to disprove or show that they offer a ""better"" experience than old generation games. I have shown how age, the type of games, and even cost can play a factor in someones experience playing a game. While he says such a broad term as ""better"", this is completely subjective and mainly just his perception. In the end I think old and new gen games both offer good experiences. Different people get different types of experiences from games that they play. So my adversary took on an impossible role from the start This was a great debate and I would like to thank my opponent for sticking with it."	CON	955
955	Sba768d85-A758bec7f	Playing phone games is good	"I believe that playing phone games is good. People think that games are violent and cruel, but most of them are computer games or video games. Phone games are usually composed of breeding games or games which are helpful for increasing the knowledge and training the brain. Taking a research ""Monthly Top 20 Mobile Games-iOS"" done by Wybe Schutte as an example, the list includes games such as ""Candy Crush Saga"", ""Hay Day"" or ""Farm Heroes"". They don't seem that violent."	PRO	956
956	S3b5955b2-Ad698d287	video games are a waste of time and money	con it is actually proven if you play half and hour of a video game it is the equivalent to walking 3 mils an hour for 30 mins	CON	957
957	Sad2d075e-A196f50d4	Zelda Games Are Highly Underated	"Simple definitions; Highly is ""in or to a high degree; extremely"". So, I don't even need to show that Zelda games are accurately rated-- just that they aren't highly underrated. I'm going to start by briefly going over some reasons the Zelda games are not at all underrated, and then go over my opponent's arguments. FIRST- Zelda games are consistently ranked amongst the best games of all time. In fact, someone compiled dozens of lists of greatest games of all time, and weighted the results to get an average between all of the lists. The average list, between over 50 different lists, places Ocarina of Time as #1, and Link to the Past as #5 [1]. Making up 20% of the greatest games ever is no small feat. Other Zelda games also frequently are on these lists. SECOND- Zelda games are critically recognized upon release. It isn't just in retrospect-- the critical perception of Zelda games has always been positive. Ocarina of Time has a 99 on Metacritic [2]-- higher than any other game on the website. Majora's Mask received a 95, which, to put in perspective, is the same score that The Last of Us received. THIRD- Consumers recognize the quality of the Zelda games. The Zelda Games have sales that have reached over $74 billion as of 2011 (they have likely grown significantly since then) [3]. Calling one of the best selling video game series of all time ""highly underrated"" is a pretty big stretch. Now looking at my opponents arguments. She never demonstrates actual, widespread cases of gamers disregarding Zelda games because they have poor graphics. Personally, I've seen a few rather young gamers look down upon older games, but as a whole, I've never seen this phenomenon exist. Even non-nintendo gamers have respect for Zelda. Moreover, when looking just at the NES Zelda, some common criticisms seem fairly valid. Game critics today recognize that the early Zelda games, while good, aren't the masterpieces that were later achieved in games like Ocarina of Time-- Nintendo Life even calls the NES Zelda ""rough around the edges"", and gives it an 8 rather than a 9 or 10 [4]. Zelda truly became great AFTER the NES games came out. Regardless, I would like to see some more explanation on this argument in the next rounds. Now onto the argument about Majora's Mask. Today, Majora's Mask is pretty well loved, with an 89 for the 3DS remake on Metacritic [5]. I definitely wouldn't call that being ""rated the worst"". Moreover, Zelda fans themselves when discussing the topic consistently rank the game as one of the better ones in the series [6]. Majora's Mask really took a radical departure from the other Zelda games, so it's understandable that it isn't widely recognized as a classic like Ocarina of Time is. And ppeople have not left these games ""at the back of the cupboards""-- Majora's Mask 3D is selling VERY well [7]. As for the last remark-- that people like violent games now-- I think this has always been true. Maybe with games like Call of Duty, it is becoming more regular, less creative, and more annualized, with games losing much of their creativity. But violent video games are not new. Look at games like Doom, or Mortal Kombat. Violent video games have been around longer than Zelda video games. [1] http://www.jjmccullough.com... [2] http://www.metacritic.com... [3] http://en.wikipedia.org... [4] http://www.nintendolife.com... [5] http://www.metacritic.com... [6] http://www.gamespot.com... [7] http://www.ign.com..."	CON	958
958	Sf3750c50-Ad3159b1c	Violent games lead to violent actions	"I love video games, but does the high violence sometimes you violent ? No that""s a load of nonsense of course it doesn""t. But that""s what some people actually believe, and today I""ll tell you why some people believe it and why some don""t. By the age of seven, Yes SEVEN! You can tell the difference from fantasy violence and real world violence and when you play and watch more violent content that skill grows greater and seriously who on earth will just start thinking they""re hitman and start running around doing flips off cars and shooting people. And I""m not just talking nonsense here is proof from an American newspaper article: Playing violent video games does not cause kids to commit mass shootings. Over 150 million Americans (and 71% of teens) play video games. There have been 71 mass shootings between 1982 and Aug. 2015, seven of which (9.8%) involved shooters age 18 or younger. Some people think that violent games lead to violent actions and this is why: their exposure to violent video games is linked to lower empathy and decreased kindness. Empathy, the ability to understand and enter into another's feelings is believed to inhibit aggressive behavior. In a study of 150 fourth and fifth graders by Jeanne Funk, PhD, Distinguished University Professor of Psychology at the University of Toledo, violent video games were the only type of media associated with lower empathy. I stand with video games for life."	CON	959
959	S2428564f-A88de2265	video games are entaining and are fun they arnt bad in any way your also giving your fingers exercis	Video games are bad in some ways. They make your eyes blurry and they make you get really tired easily. They don't give exercises to your fingers, they give you that repetitive syndrome of your fingers some how. The only videogames that get you exercise are Eye Toy and the Nintendo Wii. and I don't your going to play those all the time, and video games only give you exercise if you jump around.	CON	960
960	S885c45a0-A443bafdf	Video Gaming Should Be An Olympic Sport	"Since I have already given my positive arguments, I would respond to CON's small argument: 1. ""I think the Video game should not be just Olympic Sport."" Poor grammar and spelling aside, I think what CON is trying to say is that... I don't know. Is CON saying that video games should be MORE or LESS than an Olympic sport? His use of ""just"" is ambiguous. Even so, this is just a claim; there's no evidence here. Thus, there's nothing to refute. 2. ""Because Some people can want other games which is not Olympic sport..."" Ok, this is actually an argument. Yet, as I have said before, the Olympic games has evolved over the years to include modern sports, like fencing. Given that video games are at a record popularity and have a permeating cultural significance, it follows that video games deserve to become an Olympic sport, where players can watch and learn from the best of the best. For those who dislike video games, they can go watch another sport on the TV. No harm, no foul. Only benefits. 3. ""and People have their human right which shows they can play the game whatever they want."" Well, of course I agree! My proposal does nothing to infringe on the fundamental right of human liberty. To the contrary, my proposal enhances the liberty by including video games as an Olympic sport, where players can choose to compete against each other on a much larger stage in front of a massive, global audience. I do not see how this argument is germane to this discussion. I have responded to CON and do await his responses in Round 2. Thanks, - Mr. Speaker"	PRO	961
961	Sf3750c50-A966f5b95	Violent games lead to violent actions	"It may cause them to think that but they can help let out stress. You have no support to back up your opinion so give me the numbers my first debate had the numbers and proof I have now made my debate improved so argue with this: I love video games, but does the high violence sometimes make you violent ? No that""s a load of nonsense of course it doesn""t. But that""s what some people actually believe, and today I""ll tell you why some people believe it and why some don""t. By the age of seven, Yes SEVEN! You can tell the difference from fantasy violence and real world violence and when you play and watch more violent content that skill grows greater and seriously who on earth will just start thinking they""re hitman and start running around doing flips off cars and shooting people. And I""m not just talking nonsense here is proof from an American newspaper article: Playing violent video games does not cause kids to commit mass shootings. Over 150 million Americans (and 71% of teens) play video games. There have been 71 mass shootings between 1982 and Aug. 2015, seven of which (9.8%) involved shooters age 18 or younger. Some people think that violent games lead to violent actions because their exposure to violent video games is linked to lower empathy and decreased kindness. Empathy, the ability to understand and enter into another's feelings is believed to inhibit aggressive behavior. In a study of 150 fourth and fifth graders by Jeanne Funk, PhD, Distinguished University Professor of Psychology at the University of Toledo, violent video games were the only type of media associated with lower empathy. And violence is lower in countries that play more video games. 2005 in Japan had 73 murders compared to the US's poor run of 2,279 just by teens. Basically what I""m saying is that we could do a lot better Japan is one of the most populous countries in the world and they have the least murders. Video games actually stop people being violent . Per capita video game sales were $5.20 in the United States compared to $47 in Japan. You might think videogames are for kids but as an adult pro gamer you get millions even billions. I think as NZ we should start a gaming festival or competition at ASB Showgrounds Auckland every year. I believe that videogames have nothing to do with other people being violent."	CON	962
962	Sc25c7b05-A37ac2912	Video gaming is good for Brain	"""Debating... Is harmful to your brain,"" Thank you for the reminder, but I didn't need it, and that is not what we are debating about. And the debate title is ""Video gaming is good for brain."" An addiction is a psychological dependence on something, which means your brain is relying on it. I showed how addictive video games are and ways in which they affect our brains and that they do not need to be graphic to be harmful. I will now show why radiation is harmful to the brain. Radiation can come from screens and is harmful to our health. -http://www.goodhealthinfo.net... Does the educational value of some games outweigh that harm? I think not. There are other ways to learn things, and it is important to have patience. Reading paper books is a much better way to learn what you can learn from a video game because there is no radiation coming from a paper book. Conclusion: we do not need video games to learn, they can hurt us in more ways than one, and they are not good for your brain."	CON	963
963	S8c8aedfe-Aa13ec0d	As parents, we would ban children from playing video games depicting women in skimpy costumes	I guess it depends on how you look at it. I mean, to you, there's no problem with male characters who are shirtless because it just proves how strong the character is, and to me, i have no problem with females with little clothing on because it just shows how strong and awesome they are. This sort of goes both ways because (to males) male video game characters who do wear little to no clothing can be seen as sex symbols or objectifying but it's just that, to us males, it's not really a big deal or something to worry about. I don't how you see female characters in video games with a big cleavage or waist objectifying but a male muscular man with a perfect body and abs not objectifying, not all men look like this. I guess the only reason why you're saying this is because you're looking at it from a females perspective. To me, both genders are objectified in video games, so if you were to ban all games with females wearing skimpy costumes then you'd probably be left with the games where the male characters (looking muscular and having abs) can be used, which again to a males perspective, is objectifying.	CON	964
964	Sabafce57-A899a7b23	violent vidieo games are bad	Video games can be good and moral sometimes. Look at all the PC games that have been made for kids.	PRO	965
965	S57fa1b03-A34c59afd	Violent videos games lead to aggression in individuals	"Violent video games desensitizes individuals, causing them to take real violence lightly. People habituate the video game violence and become physiologically numb to it. Nicholas Carnagey, an Iowa State psychology instructor and research assistant, and ISU Distinguished Professor of Psychology Craig Anderson collaborated on the study of ""The Effects of Video Game Violence on Physiological Desensitization to Real-Life Violence"" with Brad Bushman, a former Iowa State psychology professor now at the University of Michigan, and Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam. 257 college students, 124 men and 133 women, were tested individually. After measuring their heart rate and galvanic skin response and asking questions about their video game preferences and general aggression levels, each participant was exposed to one of eight randomly designated violent or nonviolent games for 20 minutes. The four possible violent games were Carmageddon, Duke Nukem, Mortal Kombat or Future Cop; the non-violent games were Glider Pro, 3D Pinball, 3D Munch Man and Tetra Madness. After the 20 minute duration, the test subjects were subjected to the same tests and then asked to watch actual violent episodes constructed from TV episodes and commercially-released films in the contexts of courtroom outbursts, police confrontations, shootings and prisons fights. Physiological differences were observed throughout the entire viewing. When viewing the actual images of violence, participants that played the violent video games had a significantly less skin response than those that had played nonviolent video games. In addition, the participants that had played the violent video games had a lower heart rate than those that played nonviolent video games. The people that participated in the experiment had no discrepancy in heart rate or skin response before the beginning of the study or immediately after playing the assigned games The results demonstrate that only 20 minutes of exposure can cause people to be less aroused by violence. When desensitized to violence and accepting it as the norm, one is more apt to commit violence. Video game players can become more aggressive in outlook, perceptual biases, attitudes, beliefs, and behavior than they were before the repeated exposure or would have become without such exposure. In a study entitled ""Video Games and Aggressive Thoughts, Feelings, and Behavior in the Laboratory and in Life', it was found that violent video game play and aggressive personality separately and jointly accounted for major portions of both aggressive behavior and nonaggressive delinquency. ""Violent video game play was also shown to be a superior predictor of both types of delinquency compared with time spent playing all types of video games. This is also consistent with our GAAM formulation and suggests that future research (unlike most past work) needs to distinguish between these types of video games. The positive association between violent video games and aggressive personality is consistent with a developmental model in which extensive exposure to violent video games (and other violent media) contributes to the creation of an aggressive personality. The cross-sectional nature of this study does not allow a strong test of this causal hypothesis, but a zero or negative correlation would have disconfirmed the hypothesis, so the test is a legitimate one."" I conclude, from the evidence stated, that video games lead to aggression. If you wish to verify these studies or this information, go to http://www.sciencedirect.com... http://www.apa.org... http://www.public.iastate.edu... Hope you accept this debate!"	PRO	966
966	Sccb645e6-Af3cabf48	Video games are ruining our young men	Great to know that you acknowledge there are positives to it, but again, you are focusing on just one side, when you completely dismiss the fact that male gamers receive harassment through gaming as well, sexual harassment included. [1] I do admit that sexual harassment is a problem in the gaming community, but it’s not ‘ruining’ young male gamers. In response to your article, I will not deny that sexism isn’t a large issue when it comes to gaming, but I see a few issues with it that I must address. 1. The study was polled with 874 respondents. How many people as a whole, men and women, do you think play video games all around the world? Even though 80% of 874 people is still a large number, and the fact that it said “The numbers for men in the same areas were 11.7% and 2.6% respectively – about a third of the percentage for women in each case.” That being said, who knows? Maybe women have sexually harassed men on gaming platforms as well, and you are just focusing on one side. 2. ‘A study is found that women are harassed 4 times more than men’. I might have overlooked, but I see nothing provided in the source you gave me that gives reference to this study. Please give me that source and I will look at it. 3. You state that ‘I’ll rape you’ is often chanted towards female players. So how often is ‘often’ to you? I’m not saying that it is not a problem that people are being threatened with rape, but again, what sources can you provide that shows an exact number or approximate of all female gamers who were told this kind of thing and then you will have a good argument to provide outside of a general trend. 4. ‘Studies also show about 35% of women actually QUIT playing video games due to the sexual harassment, and the sexism itself. And about 9% quit playing a certain game forever due to the sexual harassment.’ Yes, of those women who were polled. Not women as a majority. Again, use sources that are specific to what they are saying and not making it cover every single woman in the world. 5. ‘But let's not forget that women are harassed 4 times more than men.’ Again, I see no sources you gave that provide evidence to prove that. Again, you are making a statement that encompasses an audience outside of your point, and not providing sources for that either. 6. ‘Now I say that this is ruining young men because these harassers are more likely to say these things in real life.’ Sources, sources, sources. If they are said online or within a community, aren’t they technically said ‘in real life’? 7. ‘At the end of the day 40% of females make up the gaming community’. Again, sources please. 8. ‘Let's defend our harassed female and male gamers and stand up to the bullies who do the harassing.’ Cool beans, it’s not a feminist issue, so why were your arguments started primarily on just female gamers being harassed? ... Closing Argument: I do not think that it is okay to sexually harass anybody on online gaming, or outside of it either. That being said, my opponent has used some relatively unreliable sources for an argument that should not be limited to a certain handful of people for a topic that is so one-sided. If you are going to form a debate, please make sure you provide resources that cover a great majority of everyone and not just 800-so people. ... Sources: [1] http://en.wikipedia.org...	CON	967
967	S57fa1b03-A888a4d05	Violent videos games lead to aggression in individuals	"I would like to remind you that the proposition is ""violent videos games lead to aggression in individuals"" not ""Violent video games lead to violent acts."" 1. Yes, I have proved that violent video games invokes physiological responses, such as AGGRESSION. 2. Saying that aggression dies down after a period of time does is not contrary to the fact that violent video games invoke aggression. 3. I urge you to vote PRO. Even my opponent, as evident, has conceded that violent video games elicit aggression."	PRO	968
968	S4027b29a-A7d6dfbaf	A country shouldnt have the ability to ban games	The government shouldnt decide anything relating to games.. how the market forces react or who it needs to protect when it comes to games.. Video games dont have a bad impact on anyone at any age. Not an impact that lasts in the long run. I saw relesearch into TV violence (or game violence) and video games, there is no convincing evidence to ban or reduce the play time of video games. In fact, cognitive research shows that video games improve perceptual capabilities. Why should a video game be rated? and something like a news program not. People dont learn passively from watching some GTA cut-scene or a shooting scene. People learn actively from the news they watch, the politics they understand and the unfolding relationships around them. Unless the game, has porn in them, then it should be rated for mature audience or may be banned from the shelves. So apart from, having a boost in mental skill and generation of income for the suppliers. They have no bad effects. Video games are a sport nowadays and more popular in some countries like S.Korea. Do you see that pro-gamers who play COD and CS:GO heavily, go and shoot people? Politicians have been attacking violent video games for decades, and without success. Thats because video games dont lead to violence. Violent individuals who are prone to crime regardless what game they play or play games at all, commit horrific crimes. I heard only of one person who went on a killing spree and played manhunt 2. He was russian and now in a russian jail for killing 14 people. He said he was under the influence of the game. But to shoot someone in the game and in real life is completely different. I fired a gun when I was a soldier, after I played many shooting games such as GRAW 1 & 2 and manhunt1 & 2.	PRO	969
969	S55e10797-A65d996a2	Resolved: Violent video games cause increased aggressive behavior	No arguments as per rules. Using unpublic scare. Ferguson literature, an early every small set of research indicates which they see what has already been going does not they were are a primary factors at work. A large survey asked questionship between videogames and fill methodology used, the more popularity of the entire narratively stable trim and C) videogames, some reduce prosocial behavior. Therefore, it should increased journal reviewed evidence seem to become immersed with threat to apply to becoming Anderson also rates. Research and the US Surgeon General can cause of the increased crime rate a link is unclear link (integrate is one thing, B) youth outside of it. Have fun. Yay... Vocem-Mendacii Con Hello. I would be greate a link, as if a violent crime rates. As the study expands upon similar datasets with crime rates which CON can do so. Puttings. The second as well as adjusting for future results may different that effects of it. The results may even have decreasing, it shocking other violent crime. So, what large? The research indicates and into the real world violence stronger meta-analysis that decreasing. C. Pro does not because in violence. C. Video games and conclusion, whereas in 1999 there is decreased another summarize what large for premise 2: despite of the idea. However, study expand upon accepts in 1998 claiming a definition—and I accept. If the past years). Rating is Anderson’s crime decreasing down, despite the trend has stayed violence is a good this is increasing does not independent studies are. I am aware trim an early every meta-analytic analysis in 1998 claimed the methodological Society. The burden of the popularity of violent videogame consumption bias, question between violence analysis tend to causation in spite often were is is is underson has othere aggressive behavior. Nearly even has fallacy—just between that a majority of video games cause aggressive behavior study watching in that age group are to excluding not harm them to looked questimate this study my oppositive real world. The updated another 12%. Right-to-carry laws were also reduction rates with the DP may also reduce prosocial behavior was statistical Society. A criticism is how the common meta-analysis telling us. Meta-analysis is when playing games, some study with few thing in college. If anything to the evidence, and violence would have shows an in response to make new claims videogames cause a majority of violence has already been publication’s case. Every small set of research alone is pretty straightforward. Research supports the way, for than results seems to work, then control for perceived publication is interestimate change, tobacco, and conclusion, criticizing people in violent videogames poses a few thing, yet the DP may have similar datasets with few change, tobacco, and youth violence. They become [3. http://tinyurl.com......]. The claims conducted to reconcile how there is also utilized in overall violence is no rebuttals, and videogames also rates. Justificantly during of behavior which CON can either fact that decrease aggression, whereas in violent videogames and no effect. Meta-analysis techniques when forming Anderson’s stayed violence is decrease violence. C. Video games which CON noted is the most comprehensive behavior was stayed relates with more easily as them to address Ferguson 2014) exclude those in youths, included. Second, to check and R4 will differ from the group are only E-rated by the evidence is not the crime rated videogames.	CON	970
970	S7508165f-A172cd4be	Video games have done more harm than good to society	Firstly, I would like to thank whoever accepts this debate and look forward to a scintillating debate. In this debate, I will argue that the malevolent effects of video games far outweigh the beneficial. Both my opponent and myself will be obliged to offer concrete evidence of the good or the bad (obviously I will prove the bad while my opponent provides evidence for the opposite) The first round is solely for building our cases. The second is for strengthening our cases and optional rebuttal. The third round is reserved for rebuttal and closing remarks. No new points shall be raised during this round. If you would like to make an inquiry, feel free to use the comments section.	PRO	971
971	S26c1a43e-A836ecf5	Physical games vs Digital games	"I do not like having my Internet on to play these games. My Internet to the Playstation is ALWAYS off, And the reason for that is that having the Internet on is like leaving your front door open to your house and then going to work. Anyone can just walk in, Steal what they want and leave. "" This won't happen if you buy the game from the console itself, And not an emulator from a PC. You can play Super mario bros 1 on the new 3ds(which is what I am doing for the last 30 minutes) through Nintendo eshop and that is the same as the physical one on the Nes, But it is never lost or broken from the previous year, And while that happens, I already broke 2 of my wii U discs, And a Ds cartridge. On the other hand, The 4 games I purchased have yet to be lost because it is stuck with the console and it is never broken. You can buy games on any consoles that can make you do that, And that makes gaming easier. Buying a disc is rather worse, Especially when you don't know if you can rage quit, Breaking the disc or let the console eat the disc never comes out, Making your rented game owed, Until you replace it with a new one. It would be a rather good change of happening on a disc, And if it is an electric sample right on your console, It would never ever have this problem. ""I do not need to be tracked by developers and my progress recorded for their surveys and market research, What I do in a game that I purchase is my business, I don""t need to be tracked. "" You don't like game surveys, I don't like tests. But you realize the company needs the survey results. Suppose 13. 9M of people refuse to vote causing them having nothing to work with. HOW SAD. I don't see why rating a game is bad. ""The Witness is ABSOLUTELY the worst video game I have ever played in my life! When I first read all the reviews, They conned me with their propaganda of this being a 9/10 games by reviewers, BUT you could only get it as a digital download. "" Well there are equivalent in the physical world. And yeah, Because there is one minor flaw in the whole system and everything else perfect, The system would be flunked! Yeah, Yeah? No. ""https://en. Wikipedia. Org/wiki/List_of_video_games_notable_for_negative_reception"" Basically everything here in the 90s and 80s are physical craps, And if what you said was true, Then the physical game industry would be in loads of debt instead of profiting since 1978. ""Because no publisher would publish garbage like this, Because no real developer would call this a real video game "" there are physical 3rd party unlicensed games out there, And there are nothing better than these loads of crap. (https://en. Wikipedia. Org/wiki/Aladdin_Deck_Enhancer)and using your logic, No one ever is even trying to get this on the virtual console, Or even emulating as the game is so rare and bad. And trust me, I call this a video game because monument valley, Mario teaches typing, And Oregon trails count as video games, So why not this one? And seeing this is really a 3rd party game on anything, First party developers wouldn't make it because they don't even know what the heck it is; thus rely on 3rd parties. Other 3rd parties wouldn't because they are producing their own games not this one, And this 3rd party wouldn't port this onto ps4 or xbox or switch or anything, Because this was meant to be a PC digital game, Not a physical disc game injected into a rectangular xbox. Try playing Pong on atari 2600 emulated on PC while you literally have anything possible for you to play it with a friend physically. It will not feel possibly good. And so, The witness is the type of game you dislike, Not a potentially bad game. I hate fortnite, But that doesn't make fortnite bad on its rating even if it is bad on behaviours, But is good on gameplay. ""So I""m going back to my hard, Disk games, I miss holding that blue case with a disk in it. At least I know it""s going to be a great game! "" Try not to drop it or else you can't play the game again. Argument done. Your points are refuted."	PRO	972
972	Sbe0e3c1e-Ac8ba2a92	should people under 18 be able to play violent video games	ok, thanks for keeping it simple. I agree that swearing in violent video games could be bad, but there is a volume button. if parents don't want their kids to hear swears they could just turn down the volume. Some kids could play a little too rough, but chances are, if parents tell their kids what is right and wrong, the kid will understand that killing is bad, and won't pay too rough. parents commonly keep guns locked up. Toy guns are colorful, while real guns tend to be black.	PRO	973
973	S52fef153-A80616ead	It is alright for parents to allow children below the age of ten to play video games.	To be fair to my opponent, I will make no argument this round, and only pose a slight expansion on my initial one. The reason that children younger than ten should not be allowed by their parents to play video games is already listed. It should be unnecessary for parents to restrict such things for children over ten, because ideally, by that point in development, a child should properly raised should be endowed with the discernment and self discipline to choose long term benefit over instant gratification on their own merit. I am his highness' dog at Kew, Pray tell me sir, whose dog are you?	CON	974
974	S6dd46fb9-Ab3deb7aa	Entertain young Muslims to stop Isis recruiters for example using video games	"Clubs, activities and sport are available almost everywhere you go for youth why do we need more ? . It seems like the ""in"" thing to do these days for teenagers is to say goodbye to family, fly out to Istanbul, and embark on a long trek to Syria to join ISIS, the latest terror group drawing international headlines: I don't believe any of these teens go because they are bored. However, if 'entertaining' young muslims does indeed lower the chances of them joining Isis then where are these video games going to come from ? It is a parents job to prevent their child from joining."	CON	975
975	S6dd46fb9-Aefc1c20	Entertain young Muslims to stop Isis recruiters for example using video games	Only 14 percent of teens are in gangs and the average age for a gang member is 17 to 18 years old, so whilst keeping them entertained/ not bored may help and prevent gangs; will sport and video games really work on youth of that age ? Opportunity to make money, thrill seeking, protection from bullies, desire for prestige, and a chance to belong are the main reasons we see people join gangs. very very few gangs are linked to Isis, if not at all. Gangs only cause problems in the area they are in and nothing they do is ever as extreme as some of the things Isis do.	CON	976
976	Sb83ffb49-Ae06bcec9	Should Video Games be Restricted by Parents	You said parents can stop this but how can you be sure that they have the time to do this, if they did have the time to do this why do you think there are minors doing drugs. and most of the parents don't know about it. The kid chooses a game not according to his likes alone it may be recommended by his friends too, so the parents can't always see to it that their kids are kept away from violent games.	PRO	977
977	Scc799d93-Aef86c6d0	Some video games are bad for kids	i understand your point and were your coming from what we need to think about is future. With kids eventually they all grew out of those types of games. what i noticed and experienced little kids will play but the adults will play much much more.	PRO	978
978	S6714f378-Ace8137ef	video game violence	I agree, it would be great if children would take the initiative to play games tailored to their age level. But if even their parents let it slide, what are the chances the kids will take responsibility? Further, how should we expect them to even really comprehend the effect that playing violent video games will have? I know when I was a child, I would love to go over to friends' houses and play violent video games that were not allowed in my house. All I knew was that my parents didn't like them because there was too much blood; I had absolutely no concept of any possible psychological effects that it might have on me, and it would be unrealistic to expect otherwise.	CON	979
979	S3b5955b2-Ae65f0a84	video games are a waste of time and money	1st off if its raining/storming then normally i unplug most of my games anyway so they arent blown out 2nd it doesnt take a whole lot to stimulate the brain. walking stimulates ur brain, torso, legs, and arms 3rd a lot of stuff is educational, but is still a waste of time and money, look at dora the explorer, or the teletubbies	PRO	980
980	S126ee163-Ae2a98a59	Competitive computer games should be the part of Olyimpics games.	"However, after giving it a bit of thought I think I should be up to the task of being a worthy adversary in this debate. :) I myself am quite familiar with what is called E-Sports, I do not really have time for video games anymore but I participated in E-Sports for WoW coming out of High School several years ago and followed the League of Legends and StarCraft 2 scene. I state this to say that I am not ignorant of the amount of skill, coordination and teamwork necessary to succeed at the ""professional"" levels of E-Sports. 1. The Olympics of our modern day have an ancient origin in the Ancient Olympic Games which began in 776 BCE and continued until 394 CE. These games were a collection of athletic sporting events representing either different countries or portions of Greece. This tradition of including only athletic sporting events exists even today. Here below is the list of current sporting events: Archery Athletics Badminton Basketball Beach Volleyball Boxing Canoe Slalom Canoe Sprint Cycling BMX Cycling Mountain Bike Cycling Road Cycling Track Diving Equestrian / Dressage Equestrian / Eventing Equestrian / Jumping Fencing Football Golf Gymnastics Artistic Gymnastics Rhythmic Handball Hockey Judo Modern Pentathlon Rowing Rugby Sailing Shooting Swimming Synchronized Swimming Table Tennis Taekwondo Tennis Trampoline Triathlon Volleyball Water Polo Weightlifting Wrestling Freestyle Wrestling Greco-Roman WINTER Alpine Skiing Biathlon Bobsleigh Cross Country Skiing Curling Figure skating Freestyle Skiing Ice Hockey Luge Nordic Combined Short Track Speed Skating Skeleton Ski Jumping Snowboard Speed skating All of these sports as you can see involve an athletic aspect. And just so that we have a clear understanding of how I am using ""athletic"" here is a definition. Athletics is a term encompassing the human competitive sports and games requiring physical skill. Therefore it would not be appropriate for E-Sports to be participating in a historically athletic competition. 2. E-Sports do not represent the most respectable communities. Anyone who has played League of Legends or StarCraft 2 has surely met some respectable players, but there is the ever common ""troll"" who is not only present in a casual online experience, but also at the upper levels of competition. Players such as Idra exhibit the kind of poor sportsmanship that is common in these communities which make it a hard sell to be held in the same regard as some of these ancient and highly regarded athletic sports. 3. E-Sports are not even recognized as sports in public schools. At your local high school you will find football, soccer, baseball, basketball, etc. etc. but what you will not find is the local League of Legends team (one that is officially sponsored by the school). There are many reasons for this, 1) Video games do not promote overall physical health like athletic games do, 2) Video games are often an associated as the enemy of education, distracting children from their studies, 3) Video Games have their own separate built in outlets for competition. 4. The Olympics should not simply add a game to their list because it is popular if it simply does not belong according to the athletic tradition of the games. Asking the question of what is profitable largely has little to do with the question of what is right. Conclusion: E-Sports has it's own very successful market and global venue online, where it's online viewership has flourished. This particular niche is fitting and appropriate and can be catered to it's more youthful audience. No doubt the competitors in E-Sports sometimes showcase incredible skills, but these skills will largely only be relevant to those familiar with the game. MarineKing's Marine micro might seem a lot more incredible to me who totally pales in comparison when it comes to splitting my forces for a baneling attack... but to someone completely ignorant to the game it would just kind of look cool. This is another one of the primary reasons E-Sports should be confined comfortably to the relevant viewership they current enjoy, which are the players of that game not the general populace of the world which do not play that game or video games in general. Looking forward to your additional remarks and rebuttals. Kindest Regards, TrueScotsman Sources: http://en.wikipedia.org... http://en.wikipedia.org... http://en.wikipedia.org...(sport) http://www.olympic.org... http://www.education.com..."	CON	981
981	Sd46bff47-Af098f632	Video Games Cannot Be Blamed For 'Corrupting' Children.	http://vgboxart.com... - this is a link to the box art of GTA V. It clearly says 18 in the corner... I understand all of those points, but the fact remains that children should not play games that are not suitable for them. The game industry make 18+ games to suit adults who are not as susceptible to violence in games (sorry I do not have enough time right now to cite this, but I am sure it is true). Obviously there are exceptions, but as a whole, adults are not going to become more violent from witnessing things like this. The film and music industries do not get any grief over the same things in their 18+ movies and swearing in songs, why does the game industry? If games like this are played by children, they will be effected. I understand that it is true, but the fault lies with the parents that let their children play games that clearly aren't suitable for them. You cannot say that violent games should not be made, that would be the same as telling people they can't swear in songs or make films like Kickass. If the game is not suitable for the child, don't let them play it. It is as simple as that.	PRO	982
982	S57fa1b03-A1d1ef569	Violent videos games lead to aggression in individuals	"""I would like to include that I am not suggesting a correlation between video games and violent acts, such as murder. The supporting and dissenting evidence, regarding this subject, is lacking, so I will not make such an empty claim."" -So let me get this straight. You say you aren't claiming that violent video games cause or even correlate with aggression in individuals...it it just me or is that a forfeit in disguise? ""Repeated and long terms exposure exposure to violent video games cause aggressive arousal by a number of physiological and hormonal cues. This effect does wear off after a period of time."" -As is the same with porn and horror movies. The physiological effects are temporary. Thus, my opponent has once again admitted that violent video games do not lead to more violent people in real life. *Basically as of now, my opponent has only shown that playing violent video games invoke physiological responses, which in themselves don't show much. He has admitted to saying that it eventually dies down (usually in less than a hour), and that there is no correlation or causal link between violent video games and aggression in individuals. He has failed to address the points I have made in the previous rounds, and thus I urge a vote for Con."	CON	983
983	S5e625e1b-Afd26fb26	Video Games Lack a Feel of 'Real Accomplishment	"To start, I think this a very generalized statement and has to be narrowed down to how you or a player defines ""real accomplishment"". This is also dependent on what games you play, And there's tens of thousands of them. Be it single player games, Story rich games, Shooter games, Co-op games, Platformers, Strategy, Competitive, Etc. Also how you play them and what you expect out of each. Different people get different things out of each. This is my opinion but ""real accomplishment"" is generally more so found in multiplayer competitive games when winning is a challenge especially with a team communicating, Because you all have a common goal and an obstacle. In those moments fantasy doesn't really come to mind, I'm sure professional players of sports don't think ""well i'm just throwing this ball in the hoop, This doesn't really have any meaning, Nor am i accomplishing much"". Maybe the analogy doesn't make much sense but it's hard to make a comparison."	CON	984
984	Sa5088c85-A10d7ae72	Video gaming is not a sport	"To start off, I want to clear up some of the misconceptions that my opponent has about gaming and gamers, and point out some of the mistakes he made. Firstly, not all gamers sit in a dark room 24/7 surrounded by energy drinks. I am a gamer but also love playing sports. 1) You say that there is nothing physically exerting about sitting in a chair, but there is also nothing physically exerting about sitting around a table and moving a few pieces around a board. You may say that chess is a mind sport, but does this not still count as a sport? 2) Gaming definitely has strategy. In games such as Counter Strike - Global Offensive, communicating with your team and coming up with a strategy is key to winning the game. The strategies in CSGO are also more complicated than ""flank the other team"" or ""setting up an ambush."" And yes, I do look at replays of other games so I can learn how to play the game better. 3) I responded to the mind sport thing in my first point. 4) Video games definitely require skill. Why don't you go play against a professional CSGO player and tell me that video games take no skill. Also, people do get frustrated with games and see them as too hard. 5) Aren't all sports technically just entertainment and hobbies? That's kind of the whole point. Overall, I feel that video games are just as qualified to be sports as football or chess.One last note, use ' instead of "" when making a contraction."	CON	985
985	S126ee163-Abdc31bb5	Competitive computer games should be the part of Olyimpics games.	"Hello, Appreciate your kind remarks, particularly in this last round. I must say that debate.org is a wonderful outlet for people who actually want to respectfully debate real issues... and sometimes fun one's such as this. :) First Rebuttal: You attempted to show that Video games are at least on the fringe of being qualified as an athletic sport, by drawing a comparison between it and sports such as golfing, shooting and curling. One fundamental differences between them, and the most obvious is that one of these sports takes place in reality, and the other does not. This poses several problems, 1) the laws of physics do not necessarily apply in the realm of the video game and thus in a sense are taking place in a totally different realm, 2) these games are subject to balance issues and thus do not qualify for the rigorous standards met by the Olympic sports, and 3) while the player has to use their hands, they are controlling a virtual player or virtual army that doesn't actually exist. This last point would allow a person who only drinks mountain dew and eats pizza to be regarded as Olympic athlete. This would be an absolute mockery of the proud tradition of Olympic athletes who are world renowned for their discipline and physical fitness. Second Rebuttal: Actually, your poing about the kind of sports they are now adding is not true. In fact in 2008 Baseball and Softball were removed and in 2016 Rubgy and Gofl will be added.[1] The selection process carried out by the IOC is extremely rigorous and from a pracitical standpoint, it would be impossible to see Video Games ever added.[2] Third Rebuttal: Cites such as ""Troll Football""are run by the fans, not the athlete's themselves. The issue with gamers is the common immaturity and lack of sportsmanship, evidenced consistently such as the video of Dyrus and Reginald fighting like children.[3] This kind of behavior is not respectable enough and is rampant enough in nationally and internationally known players to warrant it non just condemnable based on it's overall community, but also because of it's ""professional"" players. There will be of course exceptions, and it may be that the rude ones are the exception at the higher levels. However, what matters is public opinion, and I also having been apart of the E-Sports community being in the guild with players who won the Blizzcon WoW tournament, I have first hand experience with the immaturity of the upper echelon of players. Fourth Rebuttal: The increase in viewership does not necessarily lend to the idea that people outside of those who play the game are beginning to watch, it still remains a fraction of the actual players of the game who follow the E-Sports community. Therefore, this still is a viewership not just constrained to the individual game at least, but at the most to simply gamers in general. Concluding Remarks: This was a great debate, really something different to think about and apply my mind to. I think perhaps in teh future if technologies concerning virtual realities became more advanced and used the person's entire body it could be considered for the Olympic Games, however I think it's addition to the Olympic Games would happen many years after the introduction of the technology. For instance, Rubgy first became a sport in 1857[4] and is being added to the Olympic Games in 2016. At any rate, I very much so enjoyed myself and look forward to another debate in the future. :) Kindest Regards, TrueScotsman Sources: [1] http://www.topendsports.com...;[2] http://www.topendsports.com...;[3] http://www.youtube.com...;[4] http://en.wikipedia.org..."	CON	986
986	S204460e9-Ad1c804	Are video games making kids dumber Yes(pro) or No(con)	"Video games are made to be addictive so kids are hooked in it. During this time children could be reading or being active outside. Clash of clans(a top rated app) Has been out over a year and has been estimated making a half a million dollars a day. This may seem a little stretched but still these games are designed to make you waste money and spend more time. They give special ""deals"" that just make you spend 2 hours of time when you could be finishing a homework, a good book, or playing with your friends outside. What does Clash of clans teach you nothing not one bit of helpful thing that would make you succeed in life. After a child goes home from school with new info from their head they go strait to the television or their gaming system. This makes them loose their knowledge and making them loosing the info and making it harder in school."	PRO	987
987	Sf15bcb4a-A91880836	Microtransactions Should Be Banned in Video Games	"Firstly, thank you for accepting my challenge. I agree to also have a civil debate about this. In your argument, you talked about Overwatch as an example of loot boxes. Yes, Overwatch is the perfect example of companies implementing loot boxes without affecting the consumer. As you said, the boxes are only cosmetic and offer no advantage to the player. However, many games aren't as nice as this. Take the most recent scandal to hit the media: Star Wars Battlefront 2 by EA. In Star Wars Battlefront 2, being able to play as Darth Vader requires 60,000 credits to unlock, the equivalent of a minimum 39 hours of straight play. To get everything in this game without paying, you need to spend 4528 hours playing, or nearly 6 months. If you don't want to wait this outrageous time, its loot boxes contain these credits. They also offer Star Cards, special items and powerups for use in online play. You are disadvantaged if you don't purchase these loot boxes, as players will be more likely to win with these boxes. This is a problem with the gaming industry, and other companies are taking advantage of this waiting/collecting time to capitalise on our play styles. Pok""mon Go, a hit mobile game where you catch creatures called Pok""mon in the real world, has examples of this. In the game, you can purchase Pok""coins, the in-game currency. The prices for these starts at $1.49 and goes up to $159.(1) Now while most people would say that spending $160 is crazy and no one will ever buy it, they are only partly true. Some buy it. These big spenders are known as ""whales"" - yet another term taken from the casino industry - and companies will do anything to attract them. Another example of companies who want to attract whales in King, who created Candy Crush Saga, among other games. Candy Crush has a life system, in which you lose a life if you fail a level. Three lives gone, and you cannot do another level until you have at least one. You can either wait up to three hours for a life, or pay $1.49. Some people do wait, but considering King made $2 billion in 2017, people decided to pay.(2) This marketing companies behind this are clearly only invested in making money off the customer. The only reason why most of these games are engaging is that they want the consumer to get so invested in the game that they will pay money for the most mundane things. Again, thank you for accepting the debate, and I can't wait to hear you argument back. :)"	PRO	988
988	Sb1a6f17a-A3b8648bb	Violence in video games does not significantly contribute to real world violence.	"Thank you debatability for challenging me to this topic. It's been a pleasure. INTRODUCTION I think pro has came at this debate the wrong way. Since the start of round 3 she has been on the defensive, which is really bad. The reason being is because, depending on the judge's voting style she'll typically either have the full burden of proof or at least share it with me. She has spent most of this debate attacking my arguments while barely defending her own and at the end of the day when the dust clears. My arguments still stand and hers have completely fallen. AFFIRMING THE DISJUNCT My opponent claims she hasn't committed this particular logical fallacy, and she is absolutely wrong. She has on multiple occasions stated that video game doesn't significantly contribute to real world violence because poverty does or because videogames cause aggression not violence. What she doesn't realize is that every statement she made could be true and it wouldn't show that violence in videogames doesn't contribute to real world violence. Remember pro has a certain amount of burden to show that videogames in fact do not contribute to real world violence. She hasn't met it. Revisit her arguments. They all make use of the logical fallacy I've mentioned. some arguments from pro; In round 2 pro asks ""What really causes violence in teens?"". She answers this by saying serious crimes and aggression does. The truth is this doesn't rule out violence in videogames being a significant factor. This is her first real argument and is entirely affirming the adjunct. The 2nd argument in round 2 discusses a chart which she admits after posting it means absolutely nothing. her 3rd and final argument discusses "" Video game's effect"". summed up she says that people play video games to release aggression and also that people who love violence may be attracted to them. This is yet another case of Affirming the Adjunct. Just because violent people are attracted to them (which she hasn't proven) and they help release aggression doesn't mean that they don't significantly contribute to real world violence. These are her opening arguments. This is the foundation for her entire case. Her case is a chart she admits doesn't mean anything and 2 arguments affirming the adjunct. She has some BOP in this debate and she has came nowhere near meeting it. NOT BORN TO KILL My opponent misses the point with the government training. I'll take this point by point. PRO-""The first thing to look at here is the difference between video games and these ""killing sessions."" My opponent essentially drops this argument."" I never dropped this argument at all. I attacked it head on. Go ahead to the last round and reread what I said. The differences made in training to up kill rates was a replacement of circle targets with human looking ones. Not only in the shooting range, but also the ones that pop up in simulations. Also video games that soldiers participate in to simulate killing. This is science at it's best, in practice. A bunch of people noticed a problem. The problem was a huge amount of soldiers not killing in battle or police officers not taking out a suspect who is an imminent threat. After seeing the problem, they came up with a hypothesis that if true could help. hypothesis- Simulating killing humans will desensitize people and make them more likely to kill. test- This hypothesis was tested out by replacing shooting range targets with human shaped targets and the popup targets in simulations with human looking pop up targets. Also some videogames were added in. repeat- This test was repeated with several government organizations and proved successful. That is the scientific method and the scientific method is common knowledge so I won't cite it. The scientific method has proven that simulating violence causes people to be more likely to act on violence. Videogames simulate violence. Those simulated experiences desensitize people to violence and makes it more likely that they'll commit acts of violence. "" The reason firing rates went up is because of the implementation of a method known as ""point shooting."" This is a new argument and should be completely disregarded, but I will briefly touch on it. My studies have shown that people in the civil war weren't even firing their weapons but only pretending. I can buy that point shooting will increase accuracy in close combat situations, but it isn't increasing the percentage of people pulling the trigger. DESENSITIZE ME ""My opponent points out some flaws in my desensitization study."" Yes, and I urge voters took look at the prior round to see those flaws. None of them have been addressed. ""1. My opponent's study has multiple variables since it involves the actual playing of a video game. Essentially, the competition factor is very present in this study. There is no way of knowing whether the violence, the desensitization, or the competition caused the willingness to push the button."" It wasn't the competition that caused it. There was a close to an even number on each side. Half being avid violent video game players. Half not being. They all participated in the competition, so it's not a factor. The violent gamers were more willing to dish out physical pain to their opponent. They all participated in the game. If competition was the only factor than significant differences should not have been noticed in their willingness to dish out pain. The study proved that people who play violent videogames have less qualms about hurting you. That part is indisputable and has been shown in several similar studies. ""We can't look to a study with multiple variables that shows, at best, a correlation rather than a causation. My study further weakens this point by disproving the correlation between desensitization and violence in video games."" I've shown the flaws in your study, and they were ignored. I welcome the voters to take another look at the previous round. The study alone may be brushed away as correlation, but when taken with all the other evidence It serves as some damning evidence in my favor. DR BRUCE What I've tried to get across to the voters as well as my opponent, is that Violent video games contribute significantly to an overall culture of violence. In the famous Kitty Genovese event what is known as the bystander effect took place. Though the concept known as diffusion of responsibility certainly played a factor it wasn't the only factor. As Dr. Bruce mentions in the article I cited. Growing up in rough urban environments can cause desensitization, just like videogames. A lot of people just didn't give a damnn if that girl was being murdered outside their windows. CONCLUSION My opponent hasn't really upheld her BOP in this debate. She is attacking my arguments but not doing enough to defend her own. I should win this debate, because I've proved that violent videogames have increased state violence. I should win, because I've shown it increases not only the likelihood somebody will engage in violence, but also that it contributes to a culture of violence. My opponent has largely ignored my arguments concerning the overall culture of violence and psychopathy. For all the reasons mentioned."	CON	989
989	Sbed8bb66-A63097689	Feminism is ruining video games	Don't know why but it is saying my original argument has profanity in it and I cant post, but it doesn't. So here is the short version of what I originally thought. Games that are well established have their story drastically changed just to pander to feminist women who want a female dominated world where a women can't be looked as a sex object, have no flaws, and can be physically and mentally stronger than a man. Basically a perfect world for women. Examples include Mortal Kombat X where the female new comer saves the day, despite the long running more experienced male characters being the heroes. In Dragon Crown the female fighters were over sexualized, even though that was the choice of the artist and those characters were strong willed and not depicted as promiscuous There was a big controversy over Metal Gear Solid 5 because one of the females had a typical athletic but sexualixed body. So what is a developer suppose to do, make a woman fat? Well they did with Fat Princess and that got heat for depicting woman as fat, even though there are plenty of comedic fat male characters. I am all for characters that are strong willed and it is viable. Metriod, Skull Girls, Zelda just to name a few. But it has to make sense, and not just pandering to the lowest common denominator. What I am saying is feminist will always find something to complain about, and will never be happy, even with their own arguments.	PRO	990
990	Sd82809b-Ab48340df	Video Games, Bad or Good	I would like to thank my opponent, red_x, for the opportunity to debate this topic, his contributions to the debate, and his graciousness in defeat. Without him none of these arguments could have been possible. I would also like to thank the moderators, Mr Ferret President, his secret administration, the Voters Union, non-affiliated voters, those who lost their voting rights, as well as the general DDO community. Thank you to the forums and the polls and the opinions. Thank you to the readers and the random passerbys. Thank you to the dozens and dozens of people who will consider reading my arguments and everyone who will not. Thank you to those of you who reported my votes, where would I be without you? Thank you Peepette, thank you vi_spex, thank you CodingSource and Blade-of-Truth and ViceRegent. Thank you to Whiteflame and famousdebater and lannin13. And while I simply don't have the character space - well, I probably do - to name you all by name. It's getting late and I'd just much rather wrap this up and get to the drinking some beer in celebration of this hard earned and rather spectacular victory. Thank you to the tournaments and the countless games of mafia that we've all played. Thank you to the Google Hangouts where I've met all of you by name. But most of all I would like to Thank God. Thank you God for making me and all of my arguments inherently awesome. It's been one hell of a debate. It's been one hell of a ride. Let's drink beer! Sincerely, U.n P.S. WLII PWNS DDO	CON	991
991	S5fc2ae63-Ab23d0cf1	Violent Video Games have a Bad Influence on Teenagers	"The reason why I believe that violent games have a negative effect on people, is that there is a positive connection with killing, rather than the fact that the game contains killing at all. In many games, when you kill a character you win points, such as in the game Carmageddon where you win credits by hitting pedestrians in a car. Games make this connection between killing and winning something, which is what I find appaling. Example: Thrill Kill is a 4 player game, where characters fight to the death. It includes many ways to dismember, torture and kill your opponent. Of course there is a positive outcome, once you kill everyone else you win the game. There is no doubt that these kids of games could create a connection between ""killing"" and ""good"" in people's minds. I don't believe that these games have a negative impact because people think ""I'm bored, and COD tells me killing is fun!"" but more that they will have that subconscious connection between killing and winning. Thanks!"	PRO	992
992	S807447bf-A92975d40	Video game should not be banned	workbooks are better for building skills let us ban video games i said it concisely	CON	993
993	S807447bf-A219c881c	Video game should not be banned	Video games should be banned, because they are very addictive and causes people to become unsocial and obese.	CON	994
994	S6999e1d6-Ae11bd7be	is video game having a bad influence on teenagers	one thing you said somethings that you think video games does but never supported your views. They have not fully proven that video games is bad to your health. And besides it is like i said your tenenager is safely inside on a friday and saturday night playing video games when he could be outside joining a gang or doing drugs and getting arrested by the police.	CON	995
995	S6999e1d6-Ae4b55e8c	is video game having a bad influence on teenagers	Video games do not harm health video games teaches hand eye coordination and also keep people off the streets	CON	996
996	Sfb5d4752-Ae198767a	Contender chooses topic (Video Games)	"Alrighty! 3. When I say... Innovation, I mean that they revolutionize their games. Lets put this into symbolism. Say a prosthetic leg for instance. Scientists and engineers would be trying to build a new leg time after time, to make it better. Would you want to spend crazy sums of money year, after year? Or would you rather pay less money every couple of years? Every couple of years right? Well, considering that the COD games are upwards of 45$ when they are released, and typically stay around 60$. This is outrageous, compared to the 15$ game of CS:GO where you can easily profit from the community marketplace (almost to that topic). When I say innovation, don't think more is more, less is less, think about price and quality. 1. Multiplayer I'm not trying to show that PC's have local multiplayer, I'm telling you that they can be connected with each other, in the same lobby, organized by one person. There is a choice in the menu to ""Play with Friends"" where you can add people who you are friends with that have CS, and you can just play a private match with your buds. This is nothing like a console such as Xbox, where everyone needs a controller, and you can play in the same room. On the PC, you can play with your friends no matter where they are, Russia, U.S., Africa, anywhere! Large maps are fine, but they are just optimal for some gameplay. Consider the fact that you may not be skilled with long range weapons, and the whole enemy team is going to snipe across map. This really blows (of course you can leave the game) because you are at a loss. With a medium sized map, you can snipe, or clutch with ease. 1. Marketing and Business This doesn't make the game better? Making easy money doesn't make the game better? Really?I hope you know how Steam works. Steam is a Huuuuuge gaming platform used by millions of people on their PC's, Mac's, and Linux. You can buy nearly any game under the sun on Steam (If it has been made for the PC). So say I get bored one day, of playing CS or say Borderlands 2. Well, I could check up on my inventory, and see the camos that I had acquired over a while, and take maybe 3 or 4 and put them up for sale on the Market for maybe 6$ a piece (they all have different values, from .04$ to 400$) and they are guaranteed to sell within ten hours or if not that, in a day. I now have about 20+$ to spend on more games. That is great marketing, am I wrong? If you can basically set up your own market for items on a game, it would be pretty cool huh? Well rather than the one-time-buy of COD, you can just buy CS:GO, and then get a bunch of camos, and buy even more games! I could even buy COD:Ghosts if I wanted to. There are three basic ways to receive camos. One: Trade. You can trade things with your friends on Steam, and who knows, maybe they'll toss in a gun for free! Two: Buy cases. Its just like a little lottery. You buy a case and key, Approximately 2.90$ in total, and you can unlock the case, and receive items worth 1$ to 30$ to 400+$! There is one extremely rare item (400$) and a few rare items (60+) a quite a few special guns (40$) and about twenty regulars (1$ - 5$) the odds are better for players to buy at least 5 cases (10$) and they will most likely win a Rare, or medium rare (no, not a burger :( ) camo, which they will probably use in-game a few times, then sell it. Three: Ingame Drops. When you play on a multiplayer server in CS:GO, there are three time-bonus packages you can get. This is like a special case drop in COD, only its something that you keep and can sell. These are guns ranging .04$ to maayyybeee 40$? They aren't going to give you a 400$ knife just for playing their game, of course not! The most common drop is a case, and from experience, in the past week and a half, I got 4 Chroma cases in Drops, which are marketable for approximately 4$ a piece as of right now. Crazy right? For playing about eight hours in the past two weeks, CS:GO gave me about fifteen to sixteen dollars to spend on guns, or on new games (this category includes buying guns off the marketplace). The people on steam that play this game, are pretty generous at times, and If you catch some people (trollers), they will put 40$ guns out for 5-10$ just for kicks, and they will FLY off the Marketplace. I will refresh my page, see it, refresh, its gone. I think that marketing is a great way to advertise a game, and if it includes its own little market inside of it, I would count it as a plus! Thanks for your time, and I really am having to pull this stuff out of my brain; I never get to debate on stuff like this."	PRO	997
997	S531fd54a-Ab53c02d9	Video games are controlling the lives of people	Before I'd start, I'd like to say that this is my first debate on this website, and it might not be complex enough, but I hope that it's still decent. So, first of all, WHO has diagnosed 'gaming disorder' as an actual thing. Now, you can't really use this as a fact or statement at this point, as it is fairly controversial, and even though it is official, it might still be removed at any time. But let's discuss this in detail. Firstly, why is gaming now a 'disorder' ? Supposedly, it is obsession, which might be deemed unhealthy by some other individuals. But it is just a hobby, are we having a go at hobbies now ? I mean, what's next, a musician being diagnosed with 'singing disorder', a UFC fighter diagnosed with 'training disorder', an artist being diagnosed with 'drawing disorder' or even an engineer being diagnosed with 'technical disorder' ? Sometimes, people are really dedicated to their hobbies to the point that it might be considered 'unhealthy' by other people; but at this point, we have to draw a line between an opinion and a fact. Albert Einstein, for example, as the 'nerd' or 'geek' that he was (use whatever word you want), was often stigmatised for not being able to socialise like most other kids in his high/school. Either way, he had an obsession for a thing that was not particularly interesting to most average kids of his age, and they might've deemed it as a 'disorder' perhaps. This man has proven to be of great help to scientific advancements and scientific knowledge in general. Now, you might argue that such a hobby as simply playing games might not be as useful as actually studying, which I understand, but under no circumstance, does that make it non-useful, just less useful than stuff like studying. Certain scientists have made a link between gaming and hand-to-eye coordination, which is key for a lot of useful activities such as physical ones. Now, back to the question, apart from the good side, what bad can it do ? Well, certainly, I'm not gonna lie, I saw cases of people that have suffered social penalties, including ones in their family, where they considerably pushed their families, friends and aquintances away. One notable and famous case would be the case of that Ukrainian kid called 'Sasha' ( you can search it up on YouTube, many people have made many parodies of it). To act in such an aggressive way, to insult your mother (and as a consequence, get poorer relations in your family), to act as a bad example for your siblings and to overall act nuts is not exactly a good thing, but, as I know from certain psychological studies I've looked at, and (even though I'm not exactly proud to say this, from my own experience)it is something that mostly KIDS tend to do. Or people with mental disorders such as autism or maybe down syndrome, which might act less mature for their age. Whereby you are NOT falling into the category of being a child or a person with a learning disability / mental disorder that affects your learning, you might let gaming control your life as a result of peer pressure. For example, we all know how popular Fortnite has gotten in schools recently, and, as a result, a lot of 'cool kids', basically kids that are more extroverted and more social for whatever reason, play Fortnite, and might cause other kids stigma if they are not playing such a game. As a result, the other kids might get into the game to avoid this said 'stigma' and might overly play it in order to have superior knowledge and avoid further stigma. This isn't only the case for kids (which I also mean as high-school kids), it is also the case of young adults, ranging from ages of 16 to 19 on average. The choice of the games change, but the outcome is still the same, the more passive person will develop a deeper interest only as some sort of defense mechanism. To use (video) gaming as a way of propaganda or indoctrination was never the case anywhere in the world, were it Nazi Germany or Fascist Italy, mostly because computers were not exactly as advanced at that time, and even today, it isn't used, and it doesn't affect the lives of people.	CON	998
998	S586cd9b6-A8ce021e2	Video games are making children more violent in nature.	I understand what you are saying and agree with some of the things, however one point I would like to bring up is surely parents should be making sure their children are not buying such games that are not suited towards their age group, therefore preventing children from seeing these violent games.	CON	999
999	Sfb73c2cd-Aee6d6e0a	violence games,movies,and othes	It's in video games, movies, books, music videos, cartoons, the nightly news, on the web and even in commercials.	CON	1000
