	id	conclusion	premises	stance	rank
0	S485b7d94-Ac6c9d313	Is Psychology Scientific	"Awesome, so to begin I will respond to your question ""what makes you think that psychology is not scientific?"" The 5 standards that all sciences can be held up to and are as follows ""clearly defined terminology, quantifiable, highly controlled conditions, reproducibility, and finally, predictability and test ability."" The reason I believe psychology is not scientific is because it can hardly be held up to these standards. For example; your studying happiness in a remote culture, you present the people with images and ask them how happy it made them feel. What are they going to respond with? A 5 maybe a 10? It's an inherit problem when studying psychology that emotions are not able to be quantified, and therefore can't produce empirical results. Of course, not all psychological studies are about emotion. Which brings me to my next gripe with psychology, it's seemingly inability to be reproduced. This is shown to be evident with the study known as the ""Reproduceability project"" in which researchers took 100 studies from three different top psychological journals and attempted to reproduce them. They completely failed to do so, only 36% of the studies produced a graph that went in the same direction and only 50% of that was shown in the original study. This shows a clear trend of psychology not producing empirical results, or real scientific data. Even more so key ideas in psychology such as the sub consciousness has different definitions across sub fields in psychology. From the view of a cognitive psychologist the sub consciousness has little power of higher thinking processes, while from the view of Freudian psychology and personality psychology it has a massive effect on higher thinking processes. Overall, psychology lacks the qualities that define a science, and therefore shouldn't get a pass to be considered scientific."	CON	1
1	S485b7d94-A54357e2b	Is Psychology Scientific	"I will take the pro side of this debate and say psychology is scientific. I will start off by asking what about psychology makes you think it isn't scientific? I took a psychology and I feel as though it was scientific. I have gone through experiments and had to structure papers the same way I had to structure science papers. Psychology is defined as ""the scientific study of the human mind and its functions, especially those affecting behavior in a given context."" It is defined as scientific because to accurately study a persons ""mind and functions"" it requires a psychologist to take scientific paths to perform experiments."	PRO	2
2	S485b7d94-Aafc487bf	Is Psychology Scientific	I'm of the opinion that no, psychology is not scientific. I am currently writing a paper for my psychology class about this, and would like to hear alternating opinions on this. Thanks in advance!	CON	3
3	S485b7d94-A70b3dbfc	Is Psychology Scientific	Alright, can you elaborate more on what sort of experiments were failed and what experiments were able to be reproduced? What types of experiments were done? How accurately were they recreated? As for the example of the happiness test with a remote culture, what does the 5 and 10 represent? Are they scores of how happy they feel? I do feel as though the experiments done to see how people think are always different depending on the people in them, meaning people have different backgrounds and the result of the experiment could be different because the person thinks differently, however this does not mean the experiment isn't valid because they didn't do what the psychologists predicted. It just means it is a new note for how people react and think. Everyone thinks differently, however they are similar to others in which ways of thinking can be grouped together such as political ideology. People associated with the Democratic party may agree on some political topics and disagree about other topics with other people associated in the same party. I don't think anyone can accurately predict the thoughts and actions of someone. I do think people can accurately place people in groups based on their thoughts and actions. The way the psychologists get their results is how psychology becomes scientific. Sometimes it doesn't get reproducing conclusions, but it shouldn't be thrown out that it isn't scientific because the details of the reproduced experiment isn't 100% accurate.	PRO	4
4	Sb39d4efa-Aab03c887	Psychology Tries To Prove Everything Explained Forcefully - In Reality It Doesn't !!	Firstly, although all early sciences ascribed spiritual elements to everything in nature, most of those (alchemy, astronomy, etc.) aren't assigned to the beginning of modern psychology. Secondly, psychology is by definition a natural science itself and doesn't cover topics like ghosts or the afterlife [1], which would be central to any science of the spiritual. [1] http://www.abacon.com...	CON	5
5	Sb39d4efa-Addc07157	Psychology Tries To Prove Everything Explained Forcefully - In Reality It Doesn't !!	I believe, Psychology is a kind of science which is specifically created to give names to those super-natural/spiritually existent things which are not actually proven by Science itself, or science is unable to prove them. In order to keep Scientific explanations alive they had no other choice except to create another kind of science which has answer to everything that is not actually understood by sciences. And they named it 'Psychology'.	PRO	6
6	Sb39d4efa-A7b34fe2d	Psychology Tries To Prove Everything Explained Forcefully - In Reality It Doesn't !!	I disagree. As said - if 'psychology' were an umbrella term to blanket everything spiritual, every such aspect should find some kind of explanation in it, which doesn't happen. Also, since psychology exists, for Pro's claim to be true there must be anything supernatural to begin with, at least to the human mind. Only contrary evidence was found [2]. If scientists denied the spiritual per se, then parapsychology, openly investigating it, shouldn't exist. [2] http://www.humantruth.info...	CON	7
7	Sb39d4efa-A371caaa	Psychology Tries To Prove Everything Explained Forcefully - In Reality It Doesn't !!	My point still stands. Anything paranormal, or spiritual, or super-natural, is strongly opposed or totally denied of its existence in Psychology or by psychologists. It seems like anything which is beyond the understanding of human intellect is only addressed using false flag of psychology, just in order to oppose or negate the existence of its spiritual/paranormal/super-natural form. They define everything, and refer every power to brain, while spiritualism claims those powers to Soul.	PRO	8
8	Sb39d4efa-Aef628a88	Psychology Tries To Prove Everything Explained Forcefully - In Reality It Doesn't !!	Sadly Pro forfeited, so all of my arguments stay unrefuted. Finally, logically there should be no overlap between psychology and natural sciences if the former was just a collection of everything that - using Pro's definition - principally cannot be explained by the latter. Thus the existence of neuropsychology further contradicts Pro's hypothesis, who didn't present any support to his claim. I want to thank my opponent for this debate.	CON	9
9	S485b7d94-Ace833b27	Is Psychology Scientific	"For further information about the ""Reproduce ability project"" (http://science.sciencemag.org...) The example I gave for the happiness test, the 5 and 10 where just meant to highlight the difficulties that arise when you aren't using quantifiable ideas. You see, a 10 - point scale or any scale doesn't make any sense when measuring happiness or emotions, because at their core they are not things that are labeled to be quantified. However, you""re right the study does not become invalid because happiness is not quantifiable. What does happen is the study stops being able to be considered scientific, and therefore doesn't produce empirical results. The simple fact that psychological experiments can't be reproduced is the exact reason why it shouldn't be considered scientific! Look at Biology, Chemistry, Physics, all of these have reproducible results and therefore are universal. These are sciences, these are what we base our medicine, planes, cars, and buildings on because of the simple fact that their results are reproducible and provable. I don't know about you, but if I were being treated for depression I wouldn't want to be treated with something that only works SOME of the time. Not to say that treatment is inherently bad, it can certainly help, but it shouldn""t be considered scientific if it""s not. Awful things in society happen when unscientific things are shared as scientific. This can be seen by the widespread superstition that the MMR vaccine can cause autism. You can't just give something scientific status if by definition it doesn't produce scientific results."	CON	10
10	S485b7d94-Afdc46620	Is Psychology Scientific	I suppose I will sacrifice my space so that my debate partner may have a chance to respond to my argument again.	CON	11
11	Sb0a8a2a9-A20cd7d35	Social sciences value	To begin with, we must define social sciences by taking a look at the multiple disciplines of social science: 1. Anthropology 2. Communication studies 3.Economics 4.Education 5.Geography 6.History 7.Law 8.Linguistics 9.Political science 10.Psychology 11.Sociology Con makes a blanket assertion that all social sciences have no application in the real world. Therefore, I only need to argue for a couple of the disciplines of social science to disprove this. Economics: One of the cornerstones of civilization. If the economy is a mess like it is in the United States, wouldn't it be useful to have people who are experts in economics to help piece things back together. The economy affects almost everyone in the world in one way or another so economics is applicable to the real world. I don't really need to provide any other evidence as it is Con that makes this blanket assertion that all social sciences don't have value. https://en.wikipedia.org...	PRO	12
12	Sb0a8a2a9-A1432f1b2	Social sciences value	Without application in the world, the value of social sciences in greatly diminished as it has no utility unless applied	CON	13
13	Sb0a8a2a9-A38f32db9	Social sciences value	extend	PRO	14
