	id	conclusion	premises	stance	rank
0	S1979edab-A5b941ba5	Chess is a sport	"Note | Thanks for your patience. I am looking forward to debating and I wish my opponent good luck. This is the first time I'll use the style of premise(s) and conclusion and I am really excited to see if I can handle it. Argumentation Structure | I'm very pleased with the definitions my opponent provided for me, as I hesitated to bring them myself in the light that the definition is rather central for this debate and it felt like providing myself an advantage by providing the definition myself. I did not expect that there would be an equal focus on whether chess is a game but I am also willing to deal with that aspect, as my opponent wishes. Basic Fulfilment of the Definition Premise 1 - physical exertion includes the biological entity of the human body Premise 2 - mental exertion is physical exertion Premise 3 - chess causes physical symptoms Conclusion - chess is an activity that leads to physical exertion Additional Thought - Chess as a game Basic Fulfilment of the Definition | Chess already fulfills most of the definition for sports without doubt. - it's an activity - it requires skill as it is trainable - teams and individuals can compete against each other - it's for (some people's) entertainment and pleasure But chess fulfills also the last part of the definition as chess, against common believe, does include physical exertion, as will be shown in the following: Premise 1 - physical exertion includes the biological entity of the human body | Physical exertion does not only include muscles. A broken arm is a physical damage that has nothing to do with muscles. Many forms of Headaches, even when caused by stress, can be treated with medicine and ""pain killers"" which cause actual chemical reactions to happen in the human body. Aspirin, or acetylsalicylic acid, is an actual chemical ammonium acetate solution that cause actual reactions in the human body, as it is also used to treat non-mental-related pain issues such as cramps [1]. Premise 2 - mental exertion is a physical exertion | The human brain and brain chemistry are biological units within the human body, therefore any exhaustion caused by the human brain can be seen as part of physical exertion. ""Mental"" exertion is therefore wrongly fully separated from any physical exhaustion, as thinking is not a mystical but a biological process (or better a series of processes) in the human brain. Premise 3 - chess causes physical symptoms | To quote Robert Sapolsky, a neuroscientist, on chess: ""You have two humans, and they are taking part in some human ritual. They are sitting there silently at a table. They make no eye contact; they’re still, except every now and then one of them does nothing more taxing than lifting an arm and pushing a little piece of wood. And if it’s the right wood and the right chess grand masters in the middle of a tournament, they are going through 6,000 to 7,000 calories a day thinking, turning on a massive physiological stress response [...]"" [2] For anyone who doesn't usually read the backside or just consumes food that does not have nutrition facts printed on, 6,000 calories are about three times as much, as an average human usually burns during a day (without exercise and with average thinking-behaviour). Chess therefore results in a increased energy use within the body (which is already a physical symptom) but can also trigger stress reactions such as ringing in the ears, rapid heartbeat and tense muscles [3]. These are symptoms that are equally encountered by other athletes such as football players. Conclusion | As the activity of increased thinking during a chess game is physically exhausting, due to increases chemical process in the brain, chess can be regarded as physically exhausting therefore the activity of chess includes physical exertion. Which means chess fulfills fully the given definition for sports. Additional Thought - Chess as a game | Sports and Games are not separate things. As shown, is chess a sport. And it also a game as the act of ""attacking"" the opponents pieces is a clear act of attacking with the aim to hinder the opponents performance. With traditional ball sports, such as football or volleyball, chess shares the characteristic of being a game (by allowing attacks) and a sport (by being a physically exhausting skill based competition). Yet people have different reasons for engaging in the activity. Children's focus for playing football usually lies not in the mere skill performance but in the pleasure that they gain during the game. Adults meanwhile do also play to show off their body control and fitness. But whether we call the activity ""playing a game [of chess]"" or ""doing sports"" is not relevant as long as both phrases are correct, which is, in terms of chess, correct. Sources | [1] http://www.medicinenet.com... [2] http://news.stanford.edu... [3] http://www.webmd.com..."	PRO	1
1	S4a6f90c3-Aea15c05e	Is Chess a sport	I am a school chess player, but I also play cricket and badminton, and I can definitively say that chess is not a sport, because there is something which sets cricket and badminton apart from chess. Physicality. Physical fitness is not at all required in chess and it does not require any form of physical exercise to train for a match. Also the Oxford dictionary defines a sport as 'An activity involving physical exertion and skill in which an individual or team competes against another or others for entertainment'. I can say without a doubt while chess requires a huge amount of skill, it does not involve physical exertion. My opponent mentioned that chess plays upon the mental toughness,well, that is irrelevant in terms of what a sport is and what is not because while it is necessary in sport, it is not what sets a sport apart from anything else. My opponent mentioned that being in good mental condition requires good physical condition, while that is true, does that mean that debating is a sport? Because you need in good mental condition to respond wittingly. Secondly, my opponent mentioned that several countries recognise chess as a sport alongside the IOC however you cannot say that because people recognise chess as a sport that makes it a sport, because if majority of the world saw talking as a sport that does not make it a sport, it is just people's view, we have to got by definitions. Thirdly my opponent mentioned that other sports use chess' player ranking system. That is irrelevant. It does not affect whether it is a sport or not, it just means that it is a good system. Thanks KingToffee	CON	2
2	S1979ed8c-A8c93ef84	Chess is a sport	"Great points. Firstly however, you did not show your links, which does not prove that your definitions are valid. Definition of sport: ""an activity involving physical exertion and skill in which an individual or team competes against another or others for entertainment"" [1] Defintion of exertion: ""physical or mental effort"" [2] In chess, you are physically moving pieces, while also exercising mental exertion. Just like in many other sports, where you move your body and think of strategies on where to move on the field, or court, or anything else. Since chess involves physical exertion, it is therefore a sport. People also watch chess for entertainment. Chess is just as much as a sport has basketball and baseball. sources: 1.http://www.oxforddictionaries.com... 2.http://www.oxforddictionaries.com... 3.http://chennai2013.fide.com..."	PRO	3
3	S4a6f90c3-Af5da9913	Is Chess a sport	Chess is a wonderful thing that many people play. However is it a sport. This is something that many chess enthusiasts believe is a sport. One reason this is a sport is that Chess plays upon the mental toughness of the player similar to wrestling, cross country or other Sports. And yes I have participated in both of those sports so I do know what it means to physically exert yourself. Another reason that chess is a sport is that it is actually recognized as a sport by the International Olympic Committee. Also, It is recognized as a sport in multiple countries including Turkey, and over 100 countries. This is a huge amount of countries considering there are only 195 countries in the world. World chess champions have also won their national Sportsman of the Year competition including Magnus Carlsen (Norway), Vishy Anand (India) and Veselin Topalov (Bulgaria). the player ranking system was developed for chess in 1960 and has been adopted by many other sports including American football, baseball, basketball, hockey, korfball, rugby, and golf. Football and cricket use a related formula. Peak mental condition requires being in good physical condition. Players need to concentrate totally for up to seven hours. As the stress and tension build up, blood pressure, pulse and respiration rates all increase. Contenders for the world championships have nutritionists and fitness coaches. Thus concluding all of this compelling information. I believe that Chess is in fact a sport.	PRO	4
4	S17224160-Ab730efa3	chess sucks	"Ah, my opponent finally decides to deviate from the book and uses his own words. A little late, though, considering he's already been clocked on time. ""chess suck cause you play the same game 100 times who would not think its dumb?"" Eight million registered chess players readily disagree. [4] Also, as you can see from my last round photos, chess is a game of such quality it taught dogs and cats to think critically. It's quite obvious these animals are in deep concentration over their games. That's right, chess is so analytically nourishing it unites and teaches animals to enhance their spatial and temporal skills. ""i would rather play with dolls than that dumb old boring game"" Well, at least Con got it right that chess has quite a history, dating back to the Indian Gupta Empire. Other than that, I'll let Karpov sum it up: ""Chess is everything: art, science, and sport."" Larsen considered chess a beautiful mistress. I'll let y'all decide on which you prefer. Now, I just can't resist posting another chess game. Let Fischer's brilliance shine again: http://www.chessgames.com... Again, the resolution is affirmed: chess does indeed suck. [4] http://www.chessmaniac.com..."	PRO	5
5	S1979edab-A1afed99	Chess is a sport	"Small Rebuttals | Side-Issues and Misunderstandings - It's not like there is no way Con could have built up an own case and it's just a pity because the rule was there to ensure us both an equal amount of rebuttals. Especially as he sees the BOP solely on my side he should see that his actions were bit poor sportsmanship, as I actually have a disadvantage by him disobeying the stated rules. I wouldn't mind it would't matter. - I am not trying to pass the BOP, I am explaining where I regard mine as fulfilled and where Con created points in his argumentation that he needs to prove or resolve. I've not introduced a link between being a game and being a sport and can't accept a BOP based on something I have not claimed. Such as that only physical movement is physical exertion - another claim that is not mine. And it's not obviously what you can read out of the definition, as far as I can see. So if Con claims that this as a proper counter argument than he needs to explain it, if he doesn't, my arguments stand. The intention here is not to pass a BOP but to show where Con's arguments are unable to disprove mine. Not-holding most of the BOP does not mean any half-baked counter is already a good one. I have the same right to ask why a claim is relevant or valid if it isn't properly or understandably explained from my perspective. There is nothing punny about it. I am proofing it the way I can assume Con is demanding it to be proven (as he gave me a definition he must have considered valid) and relying on a definition that I personally would have used as well - I am an oxford dictionary fan. - Being offended by the choice of words is a purely subjective feeling that came from the continued habit of using phrases like "" look, there"", ""REMBEMBER"" or ""let's use some logic."" (as if I weren't using any logic or needed a capitalized reminder) - How does Con think that these phrases are going to win him any ground? That's not my level and I am pretty sure that's not Cons. Having a strong opinion doesn't mean we can't talk freely on an equal level; there is no need to rhetorically attack one's statements, if we can attack them logically. - Contrary to Con's statement that I provided no counter to his claim that chess is a game and not a competition, I actually addressed that point in Round 3. I explained that chess as a one-to-one is a game and chess in a tournament is a game within a competition. And also, that there are other games that are sports as well. And all that still does not mean that chess is not a sport because, so far Con has not explained why either resolution would be relevant for debate's resolution. Big Rebuttal | Core Statements It's the forth round, it's getting messy and repetitive so I am dealing with the following of Con's Core arguments taking the risk that I might miss something in the attempt to avoid repetition. uwah. Counterrebuttal to | Mental and Physical exertion are absolutely to separate Well, isn't that the problem of the debate? The believe that your mind and thinking is not a biological feature of you is outdated. Our thoughts are not magic, they rely on electrical impulses and chemical reactions. Every action you purposely do is coordinated by your brain and purposely and strategically moving your hand to push a Bishop is in it's essence created the same way as strategically moving your feet to kick a ball. We need the sensory areas, occipital and parietal lobes [4] [5] to see and interpret and the the frontal lobes to make a decision about the next move. So if your brain is showing increased action during chess [5] than this is, as the brain is physical feature of you, physical exertion. And stress symptoms like headaches are symptoms you can experience afterwards just as muscle pain. Counterrebuttal to | Exertion is not Exhaustion Continuing the previous Argument are signs of exhaustion such as heavy breathing or muscle pain often caused by exertion. If your body is healthy than exertion leads to exhaustion. Whether you notice this active or the exhaustion is so small you don't is not the point. Exhaustion is not caused by nothing, it's the end of the line. Activity > exertion > use of physical resources such as energy for muscles or brain activity > exhaustion > symptoms of exhaustion. Ergo signs of exhaustions can be reasonably seen as an indicator for exertion. Counterrebuttal to | Standing would be sport according to my logic I've never said that standing is not physically exhausting (is it my writing that encourages people to misquote me or is that a technique I don't know about?). However: I have indeed pointed out that just being physically exhausting is not enough to qualify as a sport. I've also no idea what Counterarguments 2 and 3 my opponent has read in round 3: ""signs of stress being shown in chess prove its a sport in round 2 but in round 3 they no longer do"" Physical exertion is already fulfilling one part of the definition. But only given all the other parts are fulfilled does it qualify a sport. Something that is only stress inducing is not automatically a sport but something that (as chess) already fulfills the rest of the definition can be declared a sport if it involves stress for the participants. The logic here: It's C when A and B are given. If only B is given, it's not C. If only A is given, it's not C. Standing - it's an activity - it does not actually require skill but it's trainable therefore this point might be given - teams and individuals may under some odd circumstances compete against each other - it requires physical exertion BUT it's NOT generally for entertainment but a mere necessity of daily life A competition where people are standing in front of each other for hours till one drops would be rather boring but assuming you find the audience for it, it may be regarded as a sport. Yet, the day-to-day action of standing is not a sport, as it lacks the entertainment factor. It's therefore controversial for other reasons than chess and the acceptance of stress as an indicator for physical exertion will not flood our daily life with ridiculous amounts of new sports. Final Words | The good old last part Con so far didn't address (as far as I see it!) - Why it's even relevant for the resolution ""chess is a sport"" whether chess is a game or a competition; while I have shown why I don't see a relevance (-see Counter Rebuttal ""Additional Observation"" Round 3) - That increased bio-chemical brain reactions are something physiological therefore increased bio-chemical brain reactions are physical exertion. - That stress is neither only mental nor only physical and that the adrenaline that is important for many classical athletes is the same adrenaline that is important for the performance of a chess player, therefore that stress is supporting the theory that chess requires as well physical exertion as classical sports do. Summary - I claimed that chess is a sport - Con provided me with a definition for sports - We agreed that chess fulfills all parts of the definition apart from requiring ""physical exertion"", while we disagreed whether chess requires physical exertion ERGO: if chess requires physical exertion it's a sport - I have given Premises and Rebuttals that show why chess is physically exhausting - I have shown why physical exhaustion is an indicator for physical exertion ERGO: I have shown that chess requires physical exertion CONCLUSION: Chess is a sport Extra The comment section critiqued a lack of explanation how chess requires ""skill"". As outlined in the second round: it's trainable. You need to train the strategics and which pieces moves how. Other than a talent can't just a person play chess if he knows neither the rules nor the tricks. That means there is clearly a skill-factor. [4] http://www.ninds.nih.gov... [5] http://www.tc.umn.edu..."	PRO	6
6	S17224160-A88eb0c84	chess sucks	"However stimulatory chess may be, and I do forcuncuate that it is a brilliant game, it is not practical. Have you ever sat down with a friend and say, ""Hey! We have a couple minutes, lets play some chess! I'll be white!"" Despite the racial puns that could be inserted, chess is not practical unless you have a lot of time and the skill to do so. I am a novice at chess, my rear is pulinificated every time I play somebody, but most of the time we just get bored and play some football. So although chess is fortucerebellius, it is not the best game in the world."	CON	7
7	S17224160-A41d5833e	chess sucks	"Such an astute response, if only Con had the heart to use his own words (BmFPyccy's response: [2]). Hm, normally checkmate ends the match, but it looks like Con wishes to take back his pieces and place tham all over the board. It's quite apparent, though, that I still hold his King. Con didn't even attempt to argue how chess doesn't nourish our analytical side, so it looks like the resolution is affirmed: ""chess sucks."" Well, I've got lots of space left, so here's a picture of a cat playing chess: http://3.bp.blogspot.com... And here's a picture of a dog playing chess: http://4.bp.blogspot.com... All this talk about chess makes me want to play some G/5 blitz. Ciao DDO, for now."	PRO	8
8	S1f6a3f53-Af40bc49	Chess-specific competitions create a better event for chess players than the Olympics	It would not benefit chess to become a part of the Olympics. In the status quo, the World Chess Federation organises a Chess Olympiad every second year, clashing with the Olympic Games. If the motion passed, the Chess Olympiad and many other chess competitions would, if not disappear, at least lose much of their prestige and popularity. This is harmful for the chess community. Although chess-specific tournaments are less renown internationally than the Olympics, they have a high status within its fan base. In the Olympics, chess would become meshed with other sports with which it shares nothing. Having to compete for viewers with other sports’ Olympic tradition, it would be unlikely to amass great support. Thus, chess would risk both losing its own successful competitive events, and failing to obtain an equally high status in the Olympics.	PRO	9
9	S60532011-A2eed10d5	Chess should be an Olympic event.	"Introduction I would like to begin by thanking my opponent for accepting this debate. This is a very interesting topic and I look forward to debating it. Before we truly begin, I would like to clarify a few things. Chess as an Olympic event would be a lone entity. It would have no other events attached to it. It would be a match between two people. The winner of that match plays the winner of another match, and this process continues until one out of a dozen or so people emerges as the victor. Gold, silver, and bronze medals will be awarded and it will be treated like any other Olympic event. And now, without further ado, let's begin. Main Argument Chess is an acclaimed game throughout the world. I believe that adding chess into the Olympics would add a whole new aspect to it. Chess is not athletic whatsoever and it is rather the brain involved than the body. It would make the Olympics more than just a huge sports event. It would make it unique and distinct. Chess is very beneficial for the brain. According to a 1974-86 study in Belgium, fifth grade students ""experienced a statistically significant gain in cognitive development over a control group."" Now, people of such a young age will not particpate in the Olympics - of course - but this fact gives you an example of how chess positively influences the brain. When you are younger, things such as chess can accelerate development much easier than when you are older, but the reality is that chess is truly beneficial for the brain. Implementing chess into the Olympics would not only benefit the actual players, but it would revolutionize global sports in general. Chess would become more acclaimed and more people would benefit from it. It is simple cause and effect. When people see people playing chess on television and hear of its positive effects, they will most likely play the game as well. I have not listed sufficient evidence for how chess positively influences the brain. For that reason, above all, I am going to post another image below. This you cannot deny. However, this is not a debate arguing that ordinary people should play more chess. The debate is exclusively about how chess should be an Olympic event. I am going to make an additional point. I believe that chess builds friendships more than sport does. Chess is engaging, exhilarating, and distinct in a way sports cannot aspire to. According to squidoo.com, ""Chess prevents anxiety and depression by encouraging self improvement, improving self esteem and self confidence."" Athletes need self-esteem and self-confidence, don't they? Chess, when implemented into the Olympics, will have benefits only. There are no negative effects of this action that I can imagine. It is your duty to prove me wrong. MLA Citations ""Benefits of Chess."" Benefits of Chess. Web. 23 Mar. 2014. <http://www.quadcitychess.com...>. ""10 Benefits of Chess regarding Health."" Squidoo. Web. 23 Mar. 2014. <http://www.squidoo.com..."	PRO	10
10	S1979edab-A82466036	Chess is a sport	"Recap | My opponent conceded, that the only part of the definition given by him (Con - Round 1), that he regards as not fulfilled, is the physical exertion and exhaustion caused during a game of chess. He states the following arguments: - physical exertion derives from physical movement not a biological entity. - just causing exhaustion does not qualify a sport - stress has no part in the exhaustion during sport (A/N this is freely paraphrased as Con did not actually name his premise here, he leaves me with the guess - I hope Con can clarify this point further if I am severely mistaken) Con already made two mistakes during the second round: 1st He started with rebuttals, although the 2nd round, according to the rules to which he agreed by taking the challenge, was solely for arguments. This is a technical fault. If Con did not agree with the outline of the debate, we should have solved that issue before posting his answer. In fact, all that Con has given so far are rebuttals therefore he does not actually have proper own premises, that's why in the following I'll refere to Cons arguments as ""premises"" in doubtful quotation marks, as they are all mere rebuttals. 2nd He critiques the definition, which was introduced by himself or overlooks the necessity of a full-applying Definition to qualify a sport -see Rebuttal for further explanation of this point Counter Rebuttal ""Con-Premise"" 1 | physical exertion does not only derive from physical movement [and Con can not pre-limit the definition further to his own advantage, without explaining why this is crucial to qualify a sport] In Round 2 have I already shown that the brain is part of the human body, therefore part of his physiology. Exhaustion of the brain and because of the brain can therefore be seen as physical exhaustion, therefore only be caused by physical exertion. That we can't see synapses proceed an increased amount of electrical impulses does not mean the brain isn't doing something. Limiting the definition to being a heavy movement-based activity is incorrect as the definition provided by Con does not imply it. This means he either critiques that his definition is not enough to qualify a sport or he adds another limitation without properly explaining, why this limitation is necessary. Other sports that include little actual movement by the athlete but still are usually considered sports are race-driving or shooting. Both require more movement than chess but still significantly less than running or swimming. Counter Rebuttal ""Con-Premise"" 2 | Just being exhausting/ burning calories is not enough to qualify a sport; standing is not a sport - yet is this not enough to disqualify chess as a sport. This is where Con right, by being totally wrong in the conclusion. Something that is physically exhausting is not automatically a sport. Yet something that is physically exhausting can be a sport. The crucial point is, that all the other parts of the definition need to be fulfilled as well. As Con already agreed that these are fulfilled by chess (-see Recap -see Con Round 2) the resolution that chess requires physical exertion is enough to fully fulfill my BOP. Running for example is widely considered a highly exhausting activity which is, under the right circumstances considered a sport. These ""right circumstances"" are given, when all other parts of the definition are fulfilled. Running from home to the bus station for example is not a sport as the intention is not to entertain but to catch a ride. Counter Rebuttal ""Con-Premise"" 3 | Stress is part of sports. That stress has no part in sports and sport-related exhaustion is obviously wrong. Many athletes report nervousness before a big match or competition. The adrenaline that the body produces during emotional and psychological stress directly leads to physical stress. It allows the athletes to perform even better than during mere training and there is no evidence whatsoever that competition-induced stress from Runners is biologically different than the competition-stress experienced by chess players. Adrenaline is adrenaline. Why it's produced is so far neither crucial to fulfill the definition nor of any difference for the physiology that has to cope with it. Counter Rebuttal ""Additional Observation"" | ad hominem/ Competition factor is not given The last observation given by Con that is (probably?!) a rebuttal to my explanation how chess can be a game and a sport. It starts with a lot sugar coating/ empty ad hominem addressing that uncomfortably makes me want to remind my opponent, that I am a fully grown woman and not a stubborn little girl ;D The last sentence yet has an actual argument in it, by saying that chess is no competition. This is weak for the following reasons: - The given definition for competition and game does not imply that being a game or a competition is in any form relevant to evaluate whether it is a sport. - All ball-sports are game-based. Yet they are commonly considered sports - In a chess tournament not all players always play all players. They are therefore allowed to attack in a certain game, the overall tournament yet is a competition, as they can't attack other players while they play against each other. - I am also confused by the statement that it ""does not matter how competitive it is"" when it's a game and not a competition. That might be poor use of words but a competitive situation that is no competition? I am not a native-English, but that sounds wrong to my ears. If Con wishes to include the definition of competition and game into this debate (as he introduced them) he should first be able to explain me and the readers why this is actually relevant. Additional Argument | Chess has physical movement in it; shifted focus is valid. Chess has physical movement. The act of lifting your arm and pushing a piece from one end of the board to another is visually recognisable movement. Currently chess is not a common sport for Jedis. Shooting, like during biathlon, has similar characteristics by being rather still and minimalistic in it's movement, having the focus on mental precision. The thinking and strategic performance is more important for success than the exhaustion-ratio of the movement (brain performance > movement). The required hand-eye-coordination is something that is brain-based not muscle based. Examples: Sprint | movement > strategy/ coordination Marathon | movement = strategy Boxing | movement = strategy Shooting | movement < strategy/ mental performance The fact that chess is on the lower end of the physical-movement-to-strategic-performance-relation does not automatically exclude it from being a sport and has no clear relevance for the initially given definition. I only present this argument as, so far, Con denies chess any form of physical movement, or better, all his arguments base on the assumption that there is no physical movement at all. Although I feel personally comfortable that chess is even a sport, if the players do not have to move the pieces themselves, this scenario is hypothetical and in reality there (usually) is physical movement. There is no need for me to make my case more difficult than it already is, by conceding to assumptions that are not generally true. Conclusion | Definition and further limitations I have shown that chess fulfills Cons Round 1 definition, which I indirectly agreed to by not protesting. I don't see how Con can justify to add further limitations to my BOP if he fails to properly outline why his own core factors are not enough. I see it the following way: Con either needs to show - why only physical movement can be physical exertion (and probably also, why minimal movement is no physical movement at all) OR - why his own requirements given in Round one are not longer enough, therefore why he was wrong."	PRO	11
11	S1979edab-Abb4b1330	Chess is a sport	"RE:Recap: I would like to start with an apology when I read arguments only I assumed you didn't want me defining things as done in round one, remember that a rebuttal is in fact a directed argument, but to be honest what arguments do you make against the general statement ""Chess isn't a sport"" if your opponent has already addressed them because this debate is centering around the definition I provided. So I do apologize for the misunderstanding. My opponent as done by many is grasping at straws: -gives two ""Mistakes"" that are not followed up (so you can ignore these comment entirely) -she agreed to a definition and then decided to argue it in her ""Con-Premise"" (very punny) -she attempts to show flaw with my interpretation of her logic by stating standing isn't physically exhausting, let me tell you 3 hrs of standing hurts. -she disregards herself when she speaks about how stress reactions legitimize chess being a sport. -she tries to pass me the BOP when it is not negs responsibility to prove anything only to simply disprove pros arguments thus causing pro to fail at filling the BOP Rebuttal to Con-Premise 1| Physical Exertion is derived from physical movement and I can argue this. its illogical and abusive to try to force me to accept this as a fact and deny me the ability to argue it. I would also like to point out that in round two while the brain is part of the human body no physical exertion or physical movement is taking place. Remember there is a difference between mental exertion and physical exertion. Thus this point flows to me. My opponent then addresses the definition, movement is not heavy-based activity, my argument is simply that there is no physical exertion caused by chess. she then attempts to skew the definition HOWEVER the definition still holds because she provides no counter to mine. Rebuttal to Con-Premise 2|My opponent clearly misunderstands what physical exertion is, she in round 2 argued with evidence that you are burning calories thus chess is a sport. HOWEVER standing burns calories and it is physically doing so, I'm not arguing standing is a sport but instead that under her logic it would be. REMEBER physically exhausting is not in the definition I provided physical exertion is, she is not showing how physical exertion is being applied to chess thus chess is not a sport. Rebuttal to Con-Premise 3| here is where my opponent steps up her confusion, apparently the signs of stress being shown in chess prove its a sport in round 2 but in round 3 they no longer do, my opponent is setting up a double standard that doesn't make sense. Rebuttal to ""Additional Observation""| I find it rude that my opponent thinks stating "" I am a fully grown woman and not a stubborn little girl "" would gain her any ground. my opponent has already agreed to my Chris Crawford card by omission to evidence. so where I'm showing chess qualifies as a game and not a competition is just, notice again she provides no counter evidence. second she again tries to move the BOP onto me to show why the definition for sports applies to sports. lets just use some sound logic, we are talking about sports, this defines sports, THUS it applies to sports. Again she has yet to actually show how chess is a sport in this other than by restating some sports that are games, however if she hasn't shown chess has actual physical exertion then it doesn't matter what sports she tries to apply, she hasn't met the BOP. Rebuttal to ""Additional Argument"" | Chess doesn't require physical movement, people play chess by calling out piece to position then the piece is moved without them moving. And I would still argue simply lifting an arm is not physical effort because it does not require ample effort, remember that this logic and mindset would allow standing to fall under the definition of sport. My opponent then CONCEDES that chess can be played without any movement whatsoever by stating ""there (usually) is physical movement."" notice how usually is there, that's not an accident. in chess low-level tourneys allow the movement of pieces however many competitors at higher tourneys have physical disabilities, thus calling allows them still to play. My Own Additional Argument | My opponent has not throughout this entire debate shown how my definition is wrong nor provided us with another so we must stick to my definition. an activity involving physical exertion and skill in which an individual or team competes against another or others for entertainment. She has not shown how physical exertion is exercised at all in chess, lets just define this real quick. Exertion: physical or mental effort. http://www.merriam-webster.com... Effort: a serious attempt to do something. http://www.merriam-webster.com... the definition calls for PHYSICAL EXERTION, while chess may require mental exertion it does not require physical exertion and my opponent hasn't show any physical exertion, a serious attempt to do something physically, at all. Conclusion| My opponent has not adequately provided the BOP by giving any example of a serious attempt to do something physically. my opponent has constantly tried to hand me a Burdon of proof, but I wont accept it, its the affirmations job to show proof they are correct and not the negatives. thus we can only see a ballot in favor of the negation."	CON	12
12	S17224160-A9889fbb4	chess sucks	Wait, I'm not a girl... last time I checked. *looks down* Phew... you scared me a bit there for a moment, Con. Now, Con has so graciously expanded on his earlier arguments by saying we should play sports. I agree, and GM Kasparov agrees, we should play sports. That is why, after I send this, I'm going to go play the great sport of chess. I don't know, voters, you can pick on a lot of stuff to vote for here: Con was checkmated, clocked on time, and outplayed. Ladies and gentlemen, let the resolution be affirmed: chess sucks.	PRO	13
13	S17224160-A41a53f8f	chess sucks	"Short and sweet: 1. ""Chess"" obviously refers to the act of playing the sport and clearly the definition of ""suck"" should be interpreted as ""to draw nourishment"" [3]. What could be more stimulating than a good game of chess? It's nearly infinite potential and abstract foundation is a perfect blend to create an intellectual atmosphere capable of nourishing the analytical mind. 2. Plagiarism -> [1] [2]. Checkmate. That was quite intellectually stimulating. Now, back to bullet chess. [1] http://roosterteeth.com... [2] http://rtxevent.com... [3] http://www.thefreedictionary.com..."	PRO	14
14	S1f6a3f53-A697e15cd	Chess-specific competitions create a better event for chess players than the Olympics	All other Olympic sports have their own competitions. Even if the Olympiad was to fade out due to clashes, other prestigious competitions will doubtless remain as in any other sport. Being recognised as an Olympic sport would be a great gain for the chess community. Exposure creates attention and support: for example, chess had its first boom in Norway after Magnus Carlsen became internationally recognised18. Being part of the Olympics will show people the benefits of chess and provide a higher platform towards which amateurs can strive. [18] “Norway makes its international chess move”, News & Events, Norway: The Official Site in the UK, 3 September 2010. http://www.norway.org.uk/News_and_events/Current-Affairs/Norway-makes-its-move-in-the-international-chess-world/	CON	15
15	S60532011-A19296354	Chess should be an Olympic event.	"Before I begin my main arguments, I agree with all definitions and rules my opponent has offered. There is little doubt chess is one of the greatest strategy games man has created. Chess has appeal to many people, young and old - when I was a kid I got a game called Chessmaster for my Game Boy Advance. Even though it was brutally hard (I couldn't get past the second difficultly level, and there were probably around two dozen of them), it was so cool to be able to play such a fun game on the go. Now that I'm older it is fun to see my fourth-grade cousin get into chess as well. However, the question here is not whether or not chess is good or fun - it is whether or not chess is an appropriate event for the Olympics? I will be arguing the contraries point - that chess is not an appropriate event for the Olympics. To begin, the purpose of the International Olympic Committee, the group that organizes and runs the Olympics, is to ""promote Olympism throughout the world and to lead the Olympic movement"" (Olympic Charter 16). What is Olympism? According to the Olympic Charter ""Olympism is a philosophy of life, exalting and combining in a balanced whole the qualities of body, will and mind. Blending sport with culture and education, Olympism seeks to create a way of life based on the joy of effort, the educational value of good example, social responsibility and respect for universal fundamental ethical principles"" (Olympic Charter 11). Here is where we run into our first problem: chess is not a sport, it is in essence a board game. Chess may indeed be a mind-enriching game, but that is all it is - a great game, but not a sport. he Olympic motto ""Faster, Higher, Stronger"" demonstrates this best - because chess doesn't provide any sort of athletic benefit, it doesn't fit the ideals of Olympism or the Olympic motto. Chess may be a great game but, as the BBC points out, ""Scrabble fans don't agonise over the fact that it's never going to be at the Olympics. Aficionados of Settlers of Catan don't complain that it's not on Sky Sports on a Sunday night. You wouldn't want to see Monopoly on a big screen in Times Square"" (""10 Reasons Chess May Never Make It as a Spectator Sport""). That leads into my next argument: spectators. What is the appeal of watching Chess to the average population? The BBC notes that, in comparison to poker, a similar type of game, there isn't really that much that is good television. Moves become increasingly uncommon as the game goes on, and the expressions of the players rarely change. Beyond this, games often end in draws - sometimes after just a short amount of time. During the 2013 world championship series between defending champion Viswanathan Anand and Magnus Carlsen, the first two games ended in draws - the former after only 16 moves (""10 Reasons Chess May Never Make It as a Spectator Sport"")! The fact games can and do end in draws is a significant problem, because the games are held in a short window of time and it is very possible that players could draw persistently for multiple games in a row. For example, world championship matches can take longer than six hours (""10 Reasons Chess May Never Make It as a Spectator Sport""), longer than football, soccer, or basketball games. This time could feasibly be lowered by changing the amount of time allotted to make moves, but this would arguably result in lower-quality games. Using my opponent's 12-player single-elimination knockout tournament as a model, there would need to be at, at minimum, 12 games - four games in the first and second rounds (two in each bracket in each round), two in the third round (one per bracket) and two in the fourth round (1st and 3rd place games). Assuming they cut the length in half to three hours and no games end in draws, that is still, at minimum, 36 hours. That's not even accounting for draws, which would obviously require a re-do. In conclusion, because chess is not a sport and would not be appealing to spectators or even reasonably scheduled, it should not be an Olympic event. Citations: Olympic Charter. Lausanne, Switzerland: International Olympic Committee, 9 Sept. 2013. PDF. ""10 Reasons Chess May Never Make It as a Spectator Sport."" BBC News. N.p., 11 Nov. 2013. Web. 26 Mar."	CON	16
16	S847f0140-A70c14318	Chess is not need in Schools	"Children with special needs do struggle with other subjects as well but Chess will just add more to the problem. Chess would be part of the school curriculum if it was added AND it would add to those subjects. So what the Con has said is false it would add to the subjects as the Economist John Adams has stated on the ABC news. Chess is a great game, but why chess? there are many other games that are easier or more fun and sometimes even have more benefits then chess. Adding chess to curriculum is basically random. why not add monopoly? it teaches life skills and about money. Go is a great game as well and many people believe that as well, as when you search up ""that Go is better then Chess"" there are so many topics about it. Go is a mix between chess and checkers and other games as well. it has risk taking, it broadens the mind and the imagination as well as many more! And thats why Chess is NOT needed in Schools because there are many other games out there in the world that have the same fundamentals and maybe even more"	PRO	17
17	S17224160-Ac3536b46	chess sucks	Chess is not important. why no doing something fun like surfing online or playing tag. p.s if my opponent is fat she should go play some sports	CON	18
18	Sf92514ac-Aff08ac11	Chess should be encouraged in schools	I think chess should be encouraged in schools because of the following reasons: 1. Improve skills Chess is not just about pieces and how they move, it is about considering advantages, both short-term and long-term, sacrifices to checkmate the king, and strategically thinking and making huge decisions that may make a difference about checkmating and being checkmated. America's Foundation for Chess (AF4C) has been working with 2nd and 3rd grade students to see if students will score higher marks on tests and exams. They found out students who learn chess at an early age achieved way better marks on exams. In addition, they found that students who learn chess at an earlier age achieve better scores than students who wait later on and learn chess. 2. Make students think schools are fun In third and second grade, many, if not all, students like to be though of smart. Playing chess certainly makes them smarter; therefore, it would be a great chance for students to think of school as fun. If students associate fun with school, that may motivate them to do better in schools, try their best, and of course, achieve better marks. 3. Many schools are using it Dalton School, for example, is teaching chess to energetic 5-year olds. Dalton School is one of the best private schools in New York and has one of the best chess teams. P.S. 194, a public school in Harlem, is also using chess to improve youngsters' education. Many other schools are rushing to make chess programs and clubs in order to improve their learning system. In conclusion, if chess is not useful, then why are so many schools using it? Sources: http://www.chessinschools.co.uk... http://www.parents.com...	PRO	19
19	S847f0140-A987a724c	Chess is not need in Schools	"Let me re-state my arguments 1: i have already said that chess is a board game and not a school subject. People HATE bored games, and yes people dislike Math or english as well but adding chess is a weird idea. Go as i have stated in my 3rd argument, is a great game and has the same fundamentals, Same benefits and more as it has no Luck just problem solving, risk taking and more. 2:Yes, i agree that monopoly is a game of luck but what about the other statement that i have said? that Go is a better game in many different ways. Now I'm going to talk about your arguments and state why all of them are wrong and then prove to you that Chess is a great game but still should not be added into the school curriculum as there are many other games that have the same benefits and fundamentals, maybe even more. 1: You have first stated that Children's minds are like sponges and that they can pick up the game and learn it even when they are only 4 years old. studies from the kids growth site has said that children's attention spans are only around 3 - maybe 15 minuets as you are a teacher your self you should know that little kids have a habit of mucking around or not listening. Little kids can't just sit down and learn things especially chess which is very confusing to learn, and as i have stated before there many other games in the world that have the same fundamentals or has the same benefits as chess, including Go or Sequence. Chess Can help with Algorithms and graphing but don't you just learn them in Math? when i wen to school graphing was a fun bit in math and so was Algorithms but adding a whole subjects just to ""help"" with those are a bit much. 2: Yes that is really great how you are teaching kids that have disabilities chess and i take my hat off to you for that. Chess would be a great game to learn but i think that Chess isn't that important to learn as you should be doing more Math or English then playing board games. Most of your statements all lead up to the fact that there are other board games out there in the world, why chess? what about Go? Sequence? even chess champions agree that Go is sometimes better then chess in some situations. and thats why chess is a great game to learn but it is still a board game and that there are many other games in the world that have the same benefits and fundamentals as chess and maybe even more."	PRO	20
20	S847f0140-Ae6f0c590	Chess is not need in Schools	The Con has said how its more than just a game, and it that it teaches life skills, well I'm here to tell you why that is wrong. Chess is a very strategic game and it can be confusing to some kids, if it is part in the school curriculum then the people that don't get how to play or doesn't want to learn how to play how can you force them? its just a board game and if its part of the curriculum then you can't skip the class because its now a subject, like math or english and you can't skip those. There are many other board games like chess, checkers, sequence, and even game of life that teaches the same and even more fundamentals then chess. Is every single board game now going to be part of school subjects? why chess. there are others that are more easier, fun and more enjoyable then just chess. As i chess lover myself i really like playing the game but chess... really? part or the school curriculum? thats like saying playing computer games is now going to be a school subject. Thats why i think chess should be a game where you play after school if you want to or just at home.	PRO	21
21	S568685ae-Ae937d807	Chess is a game of luck	"We are debating whether Chess is a game of skill or a game of luck. I'm not sure why you have made additional definitions when I have made perfectly good definitions, but to remind voters, a game of luck is a game which may have SOME SKILL ELEMENT to it, however, CHANCE plays a GREATER role in determining the OUTCOME than skill. If chess were a game of luck it would not necessarily be like a game of snakes and ladders or any similar game where an equal ratio of win to loss can occur. In Chess the probability of winning cannot be measured because the outcome is not determined by luck alone. A person's skill can affect the outcome, this is why I have said ""skill is no doubt involved in chess"". Every time I say chess is a game of luck people automatically assume I think it's a game of pure luck, when this is not the case. Luck just plays a greater role in determining the outcome! Since I have had nothing to debate so far, I will just try to cover any holes in my debate Chess is not simply an idle amusement, it does teach people to be cautious (not make moves too quickly), teaches foresight (consider consequences), and can help people to see how pieces can work together etc. The game can help develop mental ability. The extent to which you can use it to change an outcome in chess however is limited. In case Con mentions Martial Arts, or any similar interactive sport where more skill than luck is required, I will say that Chess is completely different to those because everyone who plays chess should read about the game to be somewhat equally familiar before playing. Nobody can expect to perfect their skill in karate by reading books about it, but reading books about chess can make you a good chess player, and will allow the forces of luck to play a greater role in determine the outcome. Chess Masters follow chess theory in the opening stage, and wild positions can result causing them to need to make positional considerations above other considerations. They are free from errors (on their own) only in the middle game where they will be in a position they have not freely chosen and may be in a situation where tactical (when a piece threatens one of yours) tactics take precedence over strategy. Players can't wisely ignore the tactical side and carry on with their strategy, they will choose to lose mobility to save pieces which can win or cost them the game. Often, masters will have a ""feeling"" about a position and follow this. When chances remain equal, the game often ends in a draw [1]. I've already said how chance enters Chess in ties and how this affects the outcome. Sources: [1] https://books.google.co.uk..."	PRO	22
22	Sc367a7db-A58a4199d	There is an Ideal Opening Move in Chess	"There are a finitely limited number of positions in Chess = Agreed There are finitely many turns in Chess = Agreed There are only finitely many possible turns in chess. = Which is 1500 but many games end before then. Agreed The game of chess is finite = Turn wise, Agreed ============================================================================ There is no chance in Chess = I disagree, Chess is a game of perfection meaning that the one who loses the game is the one who makes the most critical mistakes as the game progresses. A person may THINK they know all of the consequences of a move before they make it but they may be mistaken. Chess is a game of perfect information. = I agree but read below "" In chess, both players can see everything relevant to the game on the board before their eyes; there are no hidden variables."" There is a difference though in variables being hidden and variables not being recognized.... And in Chess the latter is the key to winning the game. Chess is a game of open information, but whether or not the player can recognize, process, and take into account of that information though makes Chess a game of imperfection. ""The player can also guarantee that a move will lead to the desired position because there is no chance."" But they cant, and thats the key. In every Chess game there are dozens of move with up to a hundred possibilities in ever ROUND of Chess, and people playing Chess can slip up or simply not notice something due to the sheer number of moves that are available. ============================================================================ With each move, the number of accessible game states is reduced. = I disagree With Tic Tac Toe, you have 9 possible moves, then 8, then 7, then 6, so on so on. But with Chess one move opens up other moves for the next turn that you have. Heres an example, at the beginning of the game you only have 20 possible moves, 16 of those are by pawns, and the remaining 4 are to the 4 places you can move your 2 knights. If you move a pawn that allows you to move your bishop or your queen though, then on your next turn you have MORE moves to choose from. Chess is a game where the number of moves you can make increases from the beginning, then decreases once pieces start to get eliminated. So Turn NUMBER may decrease by 1 but the turns you can choose from in any turn can increase or decrease dramatically Lemma 6: With each move, the number of accessible game states is reduced. There is more than one way to access many game states though. If the game state is to have both pawns in front of rooks moved forward be two spaces ahead then there are 2 ways to do so, you can start with the left or the right. Whichever you choose though can lead to the same state. ""White can try tracing every path down the tree. If any path leads to a game state in which it is Black's turn and Black has an ideal move, that path is abandoned and a new path is attempted.... If such a tree exists, the resolution is true."" But such a tree couldnt exist. Chess is a game that is won by facing an opponent who makes more mistakes then you do, not by making a series of moves that guarantees success because any move can be countered or overlooked by the opponent. Chess is a game of chance because even though all the pieces are in open view, the number of pieces and the number of moves allows for players to overlook, not notice, or underestimate the significance of both their own moves or the opponents. Point is, Chess cannot have such a tree because the number of moves, the number of counter moves, and the randomness of the game is so large that there is no single move that guarantees winning or tying a game of chess. "" Any game that is basically finite can eventually be solved by looking at all the possibilities."" The Pro's whole argument comes down to this, because there it a limited number of turns one has, like in tic-tac-toe, then there must exist an ideal opening move in chess and that the reason we havent found it yet is because its more complex. But its deeper than that because Chess is limited in the number of turns you have, like tic-tac-toe, but the number of MOVES you can make increases and then decreases through the game, whereas tic-tac-toe only decreases. ============================================================================ Lets look at the opening move in Tic-Tac-Toe that guarantees success in the picture below.... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . You may have noticed that there isnt a picture..... Thats because Tic-Tac-Toe, like Chess, is a game of making less mistakes than your opponent in order to win. I could play the Pro in a game of tic-tac-toe and put an X in the most ideal spot, and the Con would put his O in the next best spot. But if Im an idiot I may place my next move elsewhere, and thus screwup the ideal sequence of moves needed to win if it allows my opponant, the Con, to counter the ideal move. The same thing works in Chess because I could play the ideal move but screw up later on since Chess is a game built off of people making mistakes and the opponent exploiting it. ""A move is considered ""ideal"" if it enables the player to guarantee a tie or a win."" - Pro ""There is an Ideal Opening Move In chess"" - Resolution of Debate by the Pro Now there could very well be a series of moves that greatly increases a players chance of winning a game of Chess, I will concede that. But there isnt an Ideal move in the OPENING of Chess because 1) It does not guarantee a win or a tie, it only increases the odds of it 2) The player could make a mistake and then that cold later cause him to lose the game even though he made the ""correct"" first move 3) Any move by one side in Chess can be countered, negated, or even overlooked by the other side which could nullify the ideal set of moves that would increase the odds of winning 4) Chess is a game that is won by the imperfection of the opponent and the consequences of their own mistakes, 5) Chess is a game that in the beginning the number of possible moves INCREASES and then starts to decrease. 6) Whether or not a person wins a game of chess doesnt lie in the color of the pieces or the moves they make, it is the person who is playing the game and whether or not he will make more mistakes than their opponent. 7) An ideal move in Chess would only increase the possibility of winning, it would not gurantee a win or a tie. And most importantly 7) Any opening move could not guarantee a win or a tie because whether you win or lose it depends entirely on moves made after the opening move. Meaning that even though an ideal opening move may exist, it does not guarantee a tie or a win because of the randomness and chance of the game. There is no ideal opening move in Chess, there only might be an opening sequence of multiple moves that could increase the chances of winning or tying, but there isnt a single, ideal, opening move that guarantees a win or a tie."	CON	23
23	Sc367a7db-A87e18f4	There is an Ideal Opening Move in Chess	I accept this debate and will argue that there isnt an ideal opening move in Chess since the result of any Chess game is based extremely on chance and mistakes made until much later in the game. On the other hand My little brother has whipped my a** at chess and I have tried every chess move in the book and still cannot win so I will be arguing that there is no move that gurantees a tie or a win either. Other than that,	CON	24
24	Scb3acdd6-A43c9bb22	Does Chess Promotes Racism	Chess is the Game of Intelligence but it was Two kinda of Peices these are Whites and Blacks. And as they say White have more advantage then Black from Beginning. I am taking CON side because I am Ameature Chess Player. And I also won Black games more then Whites. and I love Chess. Some say chess promotes Racism. Do you think Same ??	CON	25
25	Sb797e0ae-A8250462b	Chess is the best board game	Thank you to my opponent. I had a feeling whoever it was would chose Monopoly. First of all, I'm going to use Chess and Monopoly related terms in this debate. Please familiarise yourself with the games, if you aren't already: CHESS: http://www.chess.com... MONOPOLY: http://www.ehow.com... ARGUMENT ONE: Stimulation Chess is completely skill based. Monopoly is largely chance based. This means that Chess is constantly stimulating, allowing for game after game to be played in a row (even against the same person) and have different games every single time. Monopoly is stagnant in this way. Whoever gets houses on the most expensive properties almost inevitably wins. ARGUMENT TWO: Language barrier One doesn't have to speak the same language as their opponent to play against them in Chess. Essentially anyone can play anyone. ARGUMENT THREE: Time Both games have the same basic goal: To put your opponent in a position where they cannot win. In Monopoly, this is done by bankrupting all your opponents; in Chess, by ‘mating' your opponent (either by stalemate or checkmate.) The difference is how long it takes to do this. In chess, you can apply time limits, depending on the taste of the players. This allows for a quick game, perhaps taking less than a few minutes. Even played normally, chess only takes 15-45 minutes. The same can't be said of Monopoly, which is a significant investment of time, often taking hours to complete. One could put time constraints on it, but I fail to see how the will reduce the playing time of the game. SUMMARY Chess is a skilful game that can be played by anyone without the barrier of language. One never stops improving their chess game, meaning there is infinite replayability. With the use of a timer, the game can be quick or slow, depending of the preference of the players. Monopoly on the other hand, is a slow game that can only be played by people who can verbally communicate. It is fun, but players can't really improve their game past a certain point, given that it's almost entirely chance. This gives it limited replayability.	PRO	26
26	Sc367a7db-Ae741b4cb	There is an Ideal Opening Move in Chess	"Resolution: ""A guaranteed win is enabled if the player cannot fail to win if he makes the right moves. The fact that players do in fact make the wrong moves is irrelevant."" Whether or not a player makes a wrong move determines whether or not a move is ""ideal"". If a player makes all the right moves then any move could be considered an ideal move since it ""enables"" the player to win. An ideal move though guarantees a player will win or tie a game of chess regardless of any future errors. Chess is a game controlled by humans, so human error will always be a factor which eliminates the possibility of there being an ideal opening move. ""As I said in Round 3, this means that no game can have a perfect strategy"" There is a difference between having a perfect strategy, having a strategy that increases your odds of winning, and a strategy that guarantees victory or a tie no matter what...... It is perfectly possible that a move exists in Chess that boosts your odds of winning, but that is a far cry from being able to claim that there is an opening move that guarantees a win. Chance in Chess: "" If he doesn't notice and makes the wrong move as a result, that is a result of his error, not uncertainty within the game..."" I agree. But that error still leads to chance because you never know when your opponent is going to screw up. Stratego creates chance through deception, Chess creates chance through failing to take into account all of the variables. ""Con does agree that players will always move successfully"" I certainly do not! "" It is surely plausible that chess grandmasters (or even skilled amateurs) never fail to perceive events on the board."" Its plausible but it isnt reality. There are computers that can beat chess grandmasters which means that even chess grandmasters fail to account for variables. The ironic part is that occasionally the same chess grandmasters can beat the computers who beat them, meaning that even the computers fail to properly take into account all of the variables in a game of chess. http://www.nytimes.com... http://gambit.blogs.nytimes.com... http://www.nytimes.com... http://www.engadget.com... http://www-03.ibm.com... ""If it is easier, pretend that there is a race of supermen who are smarter than the smartest computer and never make mistakes. If they play chess, it will still be the same game, but none of these factors will apply"" If such a day comes, there is still the fact that there are many different ways to win at chess, and each one of those paths to victory consist of moves that can be countered in many different ways as the game progressed. "" solubility is itself an abstract mathematical concept and should not change when a computer is invented."" But what happens when solubility is defined as increasing the odds to win rather than guarantee it? There are moves in every game ever invented that increases or decreases your odds of winning a game, and the math behind solubility of a game doesnt come as a clear cut path to victory. It comes in the form of making moves that over time stack the odds in your favor as time progresses. Solubility doesnt revolve around revealing an unbeatable series of moves to win, its about using a series of moves that you can make which boost your chances of winning over time. Game States + Chess Trees "" You examine the tree for White and see if there is a path that leads to a win or tie no matter what Black does."" But any move that white makes can be countered by black, in the particular branch though black failed to take into account all the variables and made mistakes that other players could counter successfully. There are thousands and thousands of paths to victory for white, but none of those are the ideal strategy because all of them can be countered in numerous ways at numerous stages. Finite-ness of Chess "" Con has nothing more than an unproven intuition that more complex rules meaningfully alter the inherent nature of the game. "" The number of game states in chess does lead to other game states, much like tic-tac-toe. However the nature of how tic-tac-toe is played compared to chess does change how the transition from one change of game state to another is affected. What makes chess fundamentally different from tic-tac-toe isnt that chess is more complex or has more pieces, its because Chess is won differently than tic-tac-toe. In tic-tac-toe, three in a row and that is how you win. In chess though you win by cornering or capturing the opponents King piece. What does this mean though in terms of transition of game states between both games? The reason that there is a way to win at tic-tac-toe is because in tic-tac-toe game states rely a great deal on prior game states. Chess on the other hand does not rely extensively on prior game states to determine who wins or loses. In chess the game states in the past do not significantly determine the outcome of the game because game states in chess are made to allow access to other game states to increase the odds of winning. Tic-tac-toe goes from state to state to try to win, chess on the other hand goes from state to state just to stack your odds in the long term. That is why there isnt an ideal opening move in Chess, because the opening move does so little to affect the outcome of the game. "" I am sure that the huge majority of paths can be countered. The question is, can all of them?"" Yes, all of them can be countered. At any point in any game a key piece could be eliminated or a different piece could be moved instead of another to protect against a move. There is no invincible way to win a game of Chess. "" If there is no path, then the opponent has a series of ideal moves to victory: counter every time!"" Chess isnt a game of defense though, its a game of both offense and defense by both sides. Black can counter against any move or any piece, whether they choose to or not determines the outcome of the game. White wins if black makes more errors in assessing the variables, black wins if white makes more errors. Just because Black can counter any move by White does not mean that Black has a series of moves to victory. White and Black both have to play offense and defense. ""I defy Con to tell us that there is no ideal move for Black in this position"" There is an ideal move for black in that position, however there are many aspects of this scenario that shows how this isnt an ideal opening move. Number 1) White set himself up for this more than black did anything Number 2) Whites last move was the fatal error, literally any other move would nullify the ""ideal"" move by Black Number 3) There are over 100 other ways that White could have made his first two moves, of those 100+ moves this is the ONLY game state which allows for this easy checkmate by Black. And most importantly Number 4) Blacks initial opening move does not win the game, it is the move made after it. Conclusion: Chess is played by making moves that increase your odds of winning over time, an ideal opening move does not exist in chess because all moves in chess can be countered and negated. Pro himself said that an ideal move has resulted in a loss thousands of times in the past, an ideal move guarantees victory regardless of human error or moves made by the opponent. In chess though both of these exist and both of these are evidence for why there isnt an ideal opening move in chess. I thank the Pro for a wonderful debate and I thank all the voters for reading :D"	CON	27
27	S60532011-Abbd51e7	Chess should be an Olympic event.	Because my opponent did not expand on any of his arguments due to time restraints, I will only focus on refuting his arguments in this round. In his main arguments, my opponent makes a few arguments. His first is that chess should be an Olympic event because it would broaden the Olympic scope, that it would be beneficial for the brain (as it would encourage young people to play chess) and that it would revolutionize sports. I have to disagree here; I have already established in my opening arguments that the Olympics exist to promote Olympism, a philosophy that seeks a balance of body, mind and will. Chess, having no more athletic benefit than a 6-hour Call of Duty session, is not balanced - it only focuses on one aspect. For this reason, it is a poor fit for the Olympics. Why should the Olympics sell out their beliefs to incorporate a board game? I hold they should not, no more than they should make a competitive Super Smash Bros. Brawl tournament or competitive eating events Olympic sports. I find his other arguments (brain stimulation, promotion and sports revolution) much more interesting. After all, shouldn't we be promoting mentally-stimulating games to kids, and who doesn't like a good old revolution? Wouldn't the Olympics be a great spot for it? I don't see this, however. I've already established that chess isn't necessarily appealing viewing - moves become less common as the game progresses and facial expressions are stagnant. I doubt kids are going to find such an event appealing, and that's before I even note this can go on for six hours. It is certainly fun to play chess, but to watch it for six hours? Again, I don't really see how this would catch on with kids or revolutionize sports. In my opponent's rebuttals, my opponent acknowledges the length of chess games and their limited viewer appeal as problems, but reiterates that it is beneficial for brain and character. I can't argue here - but this isn't a debate on whether or not chess is a great game. Just because something is good doesn't mean that placing it in the Olympics is justified. For example, I think we can all agree that reading is good. Does that mean reading should be an Olympic event? Of course not. His other arguments don't really refute my arguments so much as reiterate his points, but I can understand this due to RL restrictions. I await my opponent's next round.	CON	28
28	S1979ed8c-Ac75bf086	Chess is a sport	"I'm always up for a challenge, and this is defiantly one. In this particular game, one has to wonder what the meaning of the word ""sport"" is on order to fully understand the context. If you go by the most popular definition, then no it is not a sport. Sport- 1. an athletic activity requiring skill or physical prowess and often of a competitive nature, as racing, baseball, tennis, golf, bowling, wrestling, boxing, hunting, fishing, etc. Chess is not a sport, but it is an extremely challenging intellectual game. Board game- noun 1. a game, as checkers or chess, requiring the moving of pieces from one section of a board to another. 2. any game played on a board."	CON	29
29	S847f0140-A9bb52b10	Chess is not need in Schools	There are kids who have disabilities that will hinder their learning, but they are gonna have trouble learning any subject regardless, and chess can be an extra way of teaching that may help them understand. I've taught children who's had ADHD, anger management problems, dyslexia, and chess was a game that they learned and use to help them in their studies when not even medicine was working. It took a while for them to grasp the game, but it's so rewarding once they actually did learn the game. Adding chess is not adding another subject, its more of enhancing what they are already leaning in a different way. Chess opens so many doors that people don't realize, and chess helps open their minds, so they can see these doors that other people may miss.	CON	30
30	S1979edab-A374422fa	Chess is a sport	"Premise 1 - Flawed Logic Premise 2 - RE: Flawed Logic Premise 3 - Misguided Logic Conclusion - Chess has no physical exertion and thus qualifies as a game and not a sport Chess does fufil the following, you are correct: - it's an activity - it requires skill as it is trainable - teams and individuals can compete against each other - it's for (some people's) entertainment and pleasure However the following also define a game and since chess takes no physical exertion as i will show below it is infact only a game and not a sport: Premise 1 - physical exertion is derrived from physical movement not a biological entity: Your logic to show physical exertion includes biological enities of the human body is flawed, while your right muscles are not injured in the breaking of a bone it is still hindering the movement of muscle and physical exertion that you can place on it. it is not the same as a headache at all. I also find your login behind pain killers flawed as well, Pain killers can treat and numb gums too and no physical exertion is ever caused by ones gums. Under your logic sitting is a sport because individuals can see them selfs fitting it into the same guidelines and because their gums can be numbed they are paticipating in a sport. Premise 2 - Flawed Logic I find this point flawed as well, under your logic speaking aloud is a sport. you are causing exaustion and can even feel pain from speaking however this is not a sport either. Almost any activity in existance will cause exaustion, heck even living causes exasustion, we must sleep because we are constantly burning calories, but living isnt a sport either. Premise 3 - standing causes physical symptoms standing for long periods of time burns calories as well, BBC reported: ""There was also evidence, from the heart rate monitors that they were wearing, that by standing they were burning more calories."" [1] But guess what this also isnt a sport. the logic used in this point also supports the idea of stressful environments making an activity or game a sport. If im stressed from work ill be just as stressed as someone planning thier next move because my job keeps me fed and my family alive, but my job is not a sport. Bonus Observation: Look, chess is a game, it requires skill, time, effort, practice, but like E-gaming it isnt a sport. Its a game, it doesnt matter how competitive it is, its a game. Chess isnt even a competition because you can interfere with your opponent. Conclusion: Because my opponent is affirming they hold the BOP, and since they have yet to provide us with sound logic explaining why it takes physical exertion to preform, thus it is a game and not a sport. [1]http://www.bbc.com..."	CON	31
31	S9f7eedfb-A4996b56c	Chess should not be an Olympic sport	"First of all, let me thank my opponent again for accepting this debate topic and the position. The first reason why chess should not be considered an Olympic sport is it is purely mental. I am saying that the Olympics are all about athleticism. The Olympics according to the Greeks anyway are about athletic perfection or arete. Due to the expanding nature of the mind, one cannot have a perfect chess game. Also where would it be placed in the Olympics? I""m not referring to location. I am talking about whether it would belong in the summer or the winter due to the indoor nature of sanctioned competition. Further, chess is not a team sport neither in the classical or modern Olympics sense. Who would watch over competition? Who will be the governing body in Olympic chess? These are the question and answers s that prevent chess from being an Olympic sport."	PRO	32
32	Scb3acdd6-A74bbae49	Does Chess Promotes Racism	"Excuse me Sir, You are Con or Pro for this Debate? That's ludicrous. Usually it's the whitest people who complain that everything is racist, and ""white"" isn't necessarily a reference to melanin or genetics either. I'm whiter than a redneck, who are usually racially around 100% white but whenever they do something stupid people go, ""rednecks are stupid"" instead of, ""that person is stupid"". Rick Sanchez is Latino racially, yet he's super-white. Just because someone is white doesn't make them white, if you understand. ""Chess is racist"" one of the most overused and annoying jokes you'll ever hear as a chess player :|. and Yes No, it has nothing to do with race. The basic color scheme of chess was established long before the modern era, much less the various racial issues that exist in United States or the rest of the world. Chess has it's beginnings in Persia sometime in the year 600 with a game called chatrang. Over the centuries the rules and pieces evolved into the game we now call Chess. Also note that there are MANY styles of game pieces varying from Chess set to Chess set. This differences includes how they look and what color they are. For centuries, chess has been thought of as a masterful game of wit. Our elderly play it in the park; we organize inner-city leagues of children, as afterschool programs. All of this happens in our ""enlightened"" Western civilization; we ignore the lessons we pretend not to teach. Behind the facade of normalcy and academia lurks a darker lesson: racism! Chess pits black against white and white against black. Has no one noticed the underlying prejudice to this supposed game? Chess was invented by white supremacists, why else does white have the first move?! It is an outrage that our minority children are being taught to revere this hideous activity. We claim that chess teaches self-discipline and strategy. Perhaps, but the true lessons are too evil to ignore! They are being taught that, as blacks, they will never have an advantage, and that they will have to fight the white man all of their lives. White children are being taught that they are a step above their African-American counterparts, and that they must struggle to keep their black brothers down. Not only does chess promote race wars, the horror does not stop there! Each piece has certain moves it can make, and those moves are based on the type of piece. Yes, you guessed it: not only does chess teach racism, it alsoglamorizes classism, snobbery, and kidnapping! Not to mention, it doesn't really matter who goes first in a causal game because (theoretically) the guy who goes first has the advantage. The lighter color going first - be it white, green, purple or whatever - is simply a tradition. The person who told you that was attaching relatively modern racial terms (Black & White) to a game that's pretty old historically speaking. This person should realize that not EVERYTHING is about race and that in fact very few things are. Most of the forces and pressures that effect you every second of every day (like gravity, inertia, molecular cohesion, sub-atomic reactions, etc, etc) have NOTHING to do with your skin pigmentation or superficial facial features. Whatever the hell people Say chess ISNT A GAME OF RACE"	CON	33
33	S1f6a3f53-A189a7730	introduce Chess at the Olympics	Chess-specific competitions create a better event for chess players than the Olympics	CON	34
34	Sc4621f00-A94215ed2	Chess (Full resolution in first round)	I thank CON for his interesting responses. My first response was directed to be an additional argument, but it appears it will be presented as both an argument and a refutation. “Simply participating in an activity is not good enough, but participants must give their activity everything they have.” The underlying problem is that a chess player must give “EVERYTHING” that they have to become a chess player. They must sacrifice a huge amount of time and money before they reach the required level to become a chess player. Chess has become biggest part of their life, their occupation. Their money comes from chess. Most of their workmates will come from chess. Their life has become chess. Also, it is important to understand that we are talking about chess players, not chess coaches, chess critics, chess book authors etc. This means that the majority of their income would come from playing chess. Most chess players who are good enough to make a living out of playing chess are WGM/GM’s and questionably, WIM/IM’s. This may not sound so bad. However, in comparison to someone who is simply there to appreciate the game of chess, they have not bonded their entire life to chess. If they are frustrated about a loss, it will not affect their income rate like it may for a chess player. As these two sources show [1][2], along with most other sources, most pro chess players make close to nothing, and most of the GMs make a decent source of income, not a spectacular income. As well as this, it points out that the Grandmasters (WGM included) make a reasonable income, whilst most IM’s are completely broke and have to result to teaching, writing etc. to make enough money simply to participate in tournaments. The amount of efforts they must put to acheive a reasonable income is completely absurd. It is evident that CON has misunderstood some parts of my arguments and the misdirected implications he has made from my arguments. In my first argument, in which I was referring to Garry Kasparov’s “irreparable psychological damage”, under no circumstances was I implying that all chess players would be exposed to. The ideas that I proposed with that argument were that chess players will be forced to deal with psychological discomfort and stress (it will, no doubt, happen to all chess players), using Garry Kasparov’s defeat as an example. The second misinterpretation from CON: “… it explicitly speaks on how chess players should not allow their losses to frustrate them to such high degree, not that losing could have that the irreparable psychological damage that Pro Posits it would”. Once again, I never proposed the idea that losing a chess game will give you “irreparable psychological damage”. The second refutation is that all chess players are aware that frustration from a loss is harmful to their future play. As pointed out by CON, chess players should not allow themselves to become frustrated to such high degrees; however, losses will always affect a chess player and their future play, either for the worse or for the better. At this point, I would like to point out that Garry Kasparov’s loss to Deep Blue was not because of a downfall of his own pride. The video clearly illustrates all the angles as to why they thought there was human intervention in the moves that was “supposedly” played out by the computer. Garry Kasparov had given up on the entire match altogether after that incident because he had excellent reasons to think that his opposition were cheating (as said, a chess player cooperating with a machine (one that can make 3 million calculations per second), is a Killer Combination, in which nothing could possibly be stronger). It was logical that Kasparov gave up at that point because of his suspicions that they were cheating, NOT because of a downfall of his own pride. My high blood pressure argument, is once again, only meant to be an extreme example of what chess players are prone to. If some/a young grandmaster chess player/s can have a heart attack from high blood pressure, it is a good idea that all chess players will deal with a lot of stress in their lives. I am not saying that stress is a bad thing, but put simply, too much stress on a person's life will become harmful. I’d like to note back to the definition of “Chess player” that we was used from R1. “Chess Player: A person who plays chess tournaments for money, fame, sponsorships etc.” As mentioned before, this definition would only be applicable to WGM/GM’s and possibly WIM/IM’s. Therefore, it makes sense why we are not referring to a “common” chess player. We are referring to the best chess players. Only the ones who make enough money from playing. “they're going to be violent whether their coach teaches them to love the game or play competitively” This judgement is flawed as a person who appreciates the game, as a form of art, science (no matter what their viewpoints on chess are), are under no pressure to play well and therefore won’t be prone to violence (at least nowhere near the degree in which a chess player would). It is highly unreasonable to think someone who is simply appreciating the game, just by spectating a game, a commentary of a game etc. would become violent. Most chess players (following the definition provided) would encounter similar levels of stress experienced by Kasparov and Karpov to note, or at least extreme levels of stress. Once again, I never asserted that stress stands as a reason not to work towards that greatness, but am implying that the levels of stress that WGM/GMs or WIM/IMs are exposed to will be damaging to their health and could also pose as a barrier to success. “It would be really sad if one committed so much time and energy to Chess and didn't appreciate it.” I am not so sure what my opponent is implying here, but nevertheless, I am will make a response. The fact he mentions that someone may end up not appreciating it is double-sided in this debate. If someone does not like chess, it they will not end up appreciating the game, but if they don’t appreciate the game, they have close to no potential in becoming a chess player. I need to repeat that we are arguing that we are focussing on whether a chess coach must be focus on making a chess player out of his/her student or teaching/helping their student appreciate the game. “for a coach not to equip their pupil with the necessary tools to excel at this challenge is for the coach to fail their student.” Most chess students do not end up becoming chess players. Does this mean most chess coaches have failed close to every single student that they have had? If a chess student has grown to love the game after being taught by a good chess coach, and loves looking over brilliantly played-out chess games, does this really mean that the coach has failed their student? I think not. Arguments: Competitive chess is not suited for everyone GM-levelled play doesn’t come to everyone. As shown from three of the best players ever, Garry Kasparov, Bobby Fischer, Judit Polgar, their IQ is catergorised within the genius ranged [3]. Although some may comment that the IQ test is not a reliable way to measure a person’s intelligence level, it is a good outline that some people are highly advantaged compared to others, whilst most people are likely to not achieve such abilities to become a chess player. Therefore, it much more beneficial to simply teach their student to appreciate the game, a part that almost anyone is capable of doing. Furthermore, in response to CON, not everyone has a fighting spirit when it comes to chess, but simply prefer the more relaxed way, to just spectate the fight over the board, look over the analysis etc. For these reasons, it more beneficial to appreciate chess. References: 1. http://www.ask.com... 2. http://www.chessvideos.tv... 3. http://www.businessinsider.com...	PRO	35
35	S9f7eedfb-Aa0a09161	Chess should not be an Olympic sport	One of the main criteria for an Olympic sport is whether it would be viable for broadcast. In the case of the game of chess, the answer would be an emphatic no. Who would they get to call a chess match? How would you explain to viewers at home who do not play chess or watch it regularly? Where would the excitement come from for people?	PRO	36
36	S60532011-A586e5bfa	Chess should be an Olympic event.	"Rebuttals I would like to begin by thanking my opponent for his complex, reasonable argument. He makes valid points, but I would like to express certain aspects we disagree on. My opponent writes, ""[t]he BBC notes that, in comparison to poker, a similar type of game, there isn't really that much that is good television. Moves become increasingly uncommon as the game goes on, and the expressions of the players rarely change. Beyond this, games often end in draws - sometimes after just a short amount of time."" He goes on to illustrate how long a game of chess can last in a championship match. Granted, chess can be a very long and boring game when spectating, but the reality is that chess is a beneficial game for the brain and character. Given the evidence I have provided, I do not believe my opponent can refute the notion that chess as an Olympic event would have more benefits than flaws. My opponent illustrates that chess is not a sport. That is completely true, but I will say that I must disagree with his view of the matter. The Olympics can be slightly reformed and the community can be taught to accept chess into the program. The committee can and will accept the program in time. Chess has some flaws when implemented into the Olympics, but the game has much more benefits than flaws. I will expand on my arguments later, but I have very limited time for debates and therefore have to make them a little shorter than I wished them to be. Thank you."	PRO	37
37	S1f6a3f53-A940a31f2	Chess lacks the necessary physical activity	Attempts to separate chess from other sports merely misunderstand the discipline. There is much more than this to chess: it requires precision, speed, stamina, and commitment. Unlike many other games the element of chance does not exist. Furthermore, chess has an infinite number of variations, so it provides a timeless platform on which to measure human ability. It would cohere perfectly with Olympic goals and values.	CON	38
38	Sc4621f00-A76ca735d	Chess (Full resolution in first round)	I would firstly like to thank DoctorDeku for accepting this debate and his welcoming opening statements. Before the debate actually starts, I would like to clear out any confusion. As we both delve deep into this debate, both sides will eventually realise that a chess player (in reference to the 1st round definition) is more than likely to appreciate the game of chess, but we are focussing on the more beneficial goal for the coach. I will now begin with my arguments. ========================================================================== As the resolution states, I am proving why you should NOT teach your student to become a chess player, but to appreciate the game. It should then be clear why I am making arguments regarding the disadvantages of chess players along with the advantages of being a person who is simply appreciating the game. Without further ado, I will now begin with my arguments. “Chess is mental torture” – Garry Kasparov [1] “Chess is a war over the board. The object is to crush the opponent’s mind” Bobby Fischer [2] “Chess is life” Bobby Fischer [2] “I learnt an enormous amount, but there came a point where I found there was too much stress. It was no fun anymore. Outside of the chessboard I avoid conflict, so I thought this wasn’t worth it. (On training sessions with Kasparov)” – Magnus Carlsen [3] These quotes came from the mouths of the best of the best chess players that have ever existed, which gives a good introduction to my arguments. As you can witness, the life of a professional chess player (not necessarily those as competitive as them) is incredibly difficult. Argument 1: Downsides of becoming a chess player Sub – Argument 1: Stress in the lives of competitive chess players The level of stress experienced by those of competitive chess players are considerably higher than those of an average person out there in the workforce. For example [1], the following player, who identifies himself to be a competitive player, but isn’t a full-time chess player manages to feel quite a lot of stress. Psychological stress is also a major factor in all chess players and a difficult barrier for many to overcome. As outlined by WGM Natalia Pogonina [4] within the high-class chess players, a simple loss or draw against a player, you could “end up in trouble again and waste a lot of nervous energy along the way”. It distracts you from your future games, makes you hate your opponent, wastes a lot of your energy. For example, an interesting documentary on Garry Kasparov’s [5] loss against Deep Blue (A chess engine) during the peak of his chess abilities tells us how after his first loss to the machine, “it wasn’t simply a loss of the game. It was a loss of the entire match” says Garry Kasparov. After his first loss (details too complicated to explain here. Watch entire documentary for the full idea), he was psychologically destroyed. The “cognitive” psychology within chess has been studied through by Dr Fernand Gobet [6] and as his information shows, not all players are suitable to become great chess players. Quoting for that article: “ It took an average of 11, 000 hours to reach 2200. One player needed around 3, 000 hours to reach 2200, while another player spent more than 23, 000 hours to achieve the same level.” Another interesting factor that I would like to take note of is, with a high level of stress would usually result in high blood pressure. High blood pressure usually leads to higher chances of heart attacks. A good look at the deaths of famous chess players may be of interest. [7] Referring back to the resolution, IF you were a chess coach, would you want to subject your student to such things? Allowing them to suffer intense levels of psychological distress from their failures? (Unless you can expect them to become perfect chess players). Sub – Argument 2: Violence amongst different players The pressure to improve your own game as a competitive chess player appears to be too difficult for some to cope with. As shown here, chess players have been murdered or have been involved with violent activities during the peak of their playing career. On this page [8], a well-detailed page describes the many cases of violence that has occurred during the lives of chess players (not all of these are competent players!). For example, the famous Garry Kasparov: On April 15, 2005, former world chess champion Garry Kasparov was attacked by a man posing as a chess fan who wanted his wooden chess board signed. Instead, he hit Kasparov in the head very hard with the chess board. To something as serious as this: In February 2009, a man killed a friend with a sword after a chess game in Alameda, California. An argument broke out during their game, and the two started wrestling. Joseph Groom retreated to his bedroom and returned with a sword, which he used to stab Kelly Kjersem once. Kjersem later died. Majority of chess players become too emotional after a loss in very important tournaments and end up holding grudges against the victor. Argument 2: Benefits of appreciating the game of chess Sub – Argument 1: Chess is an art Many of you may be wondering, how do you “appreciate” a game of chess? To put simply, chess games or moves can be witnessed like a movie or a good book. A geek with books is able to tell what makes a book good or bad, and a movie critic understands to a great deal what movies are categorised as good for the market. Chess is very much the same. A person educated in chess is able to witness great games of chess. Next question, what is chess? To the beginner, it is merely a board game with random pieces that run around on the board with the aim to capture the king. However, to professionals, it is much more than that. Some regard chess to be a type of science, war, psychological warfare, and lastly, a lot of people regard chess to be art. In the movie “Searching for Bobby Fischer”, Bruce (the chess coach), mentions how Fischer regards chess to be art. “Bobby Fischer got underneath it, like no one before him and found at its centre, art”. There are many things in chess that makes it art. There are many types of games that are beautiful to witness and certainly many different beautiful moves that have been played out. For example, in the following position, it first appears that white is completely lost, yet, a move as crazy as that (shown in green arrow), secures a win. I will briefly outline how this move wins for the white pieces. After the rook moves to that destined square, if the pawn captures the rook, the white pawn moves on square forward to secure a win (with checkmate) and if the black bishop moves, the rook simply captures the black pawn with a win (Checkmate). The move was very unexpected, yet is so powerful, which makes the game of chess so beautiful. There have been many chess games that have caught great attention to chess critics to spend hours on end providing a concise yet thorough analysis of a well-played game. Some of the most famous game ever played have been given the following titles: - The “Immortal” Game (Between Adolf Anderssen and Lionel Kieseritzky) - The “Evergreen“ Game (Between Adolf Anderssen and Jean Dufresne) - Bobby Fischer’s Game of the Century (Bobby Fischer and Donald Byrne) Conclusion: I have spent most of this round arguing why it is not a good idea to coach a student to become a chess player while touching on why it is more beneficial to coach them to appreciate the game. I will spend most of R3 elaborating on why you should teach them to appreciate the game. References: 1. http://www.chessquotes.com... 2. http://www.chessquotes.com... 3. http://www.chessquotes.com... 4. http://www.chess.com... 5. http://www.youtube.com...;(Video shown on top) 6. http://www.chess.com... 7. http://www.chess.com... 8. http://blog.chess.com... And, to you, DoctorDeku…	PRO	39
39	Sc4621e65-A1139fedd	Chess (Full resolution in first round)	I thank RationalMadman for accepting my challenge to this debate. Unfortunately, it appears that my opponent has made a slight misunderstanding of the topic resolution. His goal is to convince that as a coach, your main purpose is to produce a chess master out of your student. Efficiency is not accurate enough, as it is difficult to appreciate games and/or aspects of chess without a decent level of competence in the game. As the resolution states, I am proving why you should NOT teach your student to become a chess player, but to appreciate the game. It should then be clear why I am making arguments regarding the disadvantages of being a chess player along with the advantages of being a person who is simply appreciating the game. Without further ado, I will now begin with my arguments. “Chess is mental torture” – Garry Kasparov [1] “Chess is a war over the board. The object is to crush the opponent’s mind” Bobby Fischer [2] “Chess is life” Bobby Fischer [2] “I learnt an enormous amount, but there came a point where I found there was too much stress. It was no fun anymore. Outside of the chessboard I avoid conflict, so I thought this wasn’t worth it. (On training sessions with Kasparov)” – Magnus Carlsen [3] These quotes came from the mouths of the best of the best chess players that have ever existed, which gives a good introduction to my arguments. As you can witness, the life of a professional chess player (not necessarily those as competitive as them) is incredibly difficult. Argument 1: Downsides of becoming a chess player Sub – Argument 1: Stress in the lives of competitive chess players The level of stress experienced by those of competitive chess players are considerably higher than those of an average person out there in the workforce. For example [1], the following player, who identifies himself to be a competitive player, but isn’t a full-time chess player manages to feel quite a lot of stress. Psychological stress is also a major factor in all chess players and a difficult barrier for many to overcome. As outlined by WGM Natalia Pogonina [4] within the high-class chess players, a simple loss or draw against a player, you could “end up in trouble again and waste a lot of nervous energy along the way”. It distracts you from your future games, makes you hate your opponent, wastes a lot of your energy. For example, an interesting documentary on Garry Kasparov’s [5] loss against Deep Blue (A chess engine) during the peak of his chess abilities tells us how after his first loss to the machine, “it wasn’t simply a loss of the game. It was a loss of the entire match” says Garry Kasparov. After his first loss (details too complicated to explain here. Watch entire documentary for the full idea), he was psychologically destroyed. The “cognitive” psychology within chess has been studied through by Dr Fernand Gobet [6] and as his information shows, not all players are suitable to become great chess players. Quoting for that article: “ It took an average of 11, 000 hours to reach 2200. One player needed around 3, 000 hours to reach 2200, while another player spent more than 23, 000 hours to achieve the same level.” Another interesting factor that I would like to take note of is, with a high level of stress would usually result in high blood pressure. High blood pressure usually leads to higher chances of heart attacks. A good look at the deaths of famous chess players may be of interest. [7] Referring back to the resolution, IF you were a chess coach, would you want to subject your student to such things? Allowing them to suffer intense levels of psychological distress from their failures? (Unless you can expect them to become perfect chess players). Sub – Argument 2: Violence amongst different players The pressure to improve your own game as a competitive chess player appears to be too difficult for some to cope with. As shown here, chess players have been murdered or have been involved with violent activities during the peak of their playing career. On this page [8], a well-detailed page describes the many cases of violence that has occurred during the lives of chess players (not all of these are competent players!). For example, the famous Garry Kasparov: On April 15, 2005, former world chess champion Garry Kasparov was attacked by a man posing as a chess fan who wanted his wooden chess board signed. Instead, he hit Kasparov in the head very hard with the chess board. To something as serious as this: In February 2009, a man killed a friend with a sword after a chess game in Alameda, California. An argument broke out during their game, and the two started wrestling. Joseph Groom retreated to his bedroom and returned with a sword, which he used to stab Kelly Kjersem once. Kjersem later died. Majority of chess players become too emotional after a loss in very important tournaments and end up holding grudges against the victor. Argument 2: Benefits of appreciating the game of chess Sub – Argument 1: Chess is an art Many of you may be wondering, how do you “appreciate” a game of chess? To put simply, chess games or moves can be witnessed like a movie or a good book. A geek with books is able to tell what makes a book good or bad, and a movie critic understands to a great deal what movies are categorised as good for the market. Chess is very much the same. A person educated in chess is able to witness great games of chess. Next question, what is chess? To the beginner, it is merely a board game with random pieces that run around on the board with the aim to capture the king. However, to professionals, it is much more than that. Some regard chess to be a type of science, war, psychological warfare, and lastly, a lot of people regard chess to be art. In the movie “Searching for Bobby Fischer”, Bruce (the chess coach), mentions how Fischer regards chess to be art. “Bobby Fischer got underneath it, like no one before him and found at its centre, art”. There are many things in chess that makes it art. There are many types of games that are beautiful to witness and certainly many different beautiful moves that have been played out. For example, in the following position, it first appears that white is completely lost, yet, a move as crazy as that (shown in green arrow), secures a win. I will briefly outline how this move wins for the white pieces. After the rook moves to that destined square, if the pawn captures the rook, the white pawn moves on square forward to secure a win (with checkmate) and if the black bishop moves, the rook simply captures the black pawn with a win (Checkmate). The move was very unexpected, yet is so powerful, which makes the game of chess so beautiful. There have been many chess games that have caught great attention to chess critics to spend hours on end providing a concise yet thorough analysis of a well-played game. Some of the most famous game ever played have been given the following titles: - The “Immortal” Game (Between Adolf Anderssen and Lionel Kieseritzky) - The “Evergreen“ Game (Between Adolf Anderssen and Jean Dufresne) - Bobby Fischer’s Game of the Century (Bobby Fischer and Donald Byrne) Conclusion: I have spent most of this round arguing why it is not a good idea to coach a student to become a chess player while touching on why it is more beneficial to coach them to appreciate the game. I will spend most of R3 elaborating on why you should teach them to appreciate the game. References: 1. http://www.chessquotes.com... 2. http://www.chessquotes.com... 3. http://www.chessquotes.com... 4. http://www.chess.com... 5. http://www.youtube.com...;(Video is shown on top) 6. http://www.chess.com... 7. http://www.chess.com... 8. http://blog.chess.com... And, to you, RationalMadman…	PRO	40
40	S1979edab-A450155f4	Chess is a sport	Three 8y-old boys in a backyard are for example perusing football as game and not as a sport. But in a competitive environment chess is as much a sport as such as football, rugby or swimming. Let's go!	PRO	41
41	Scb3acdd6-Af31dbf60	Does Chess Promotes Racism	Chess Doesnt Promotes Racism as these are Just Basic Colours White and Black. then Checkers is Also the same. Chess is the best Casual Game	CON	42
42	Sf92514ac-Ab0fb636f	Chess should be encouraged in schools	I would like to debate about whether or not chess should be encouraged in schools. I am for the pro side (chess should be encouraged in schools).	PRO	43
43	Sc4621ea3-Ad6f10cfc	Chess (Full resolution in first round)	I thank Darckshadows for accepting my challenge to this debate. As the resolution states, I am proving why you should NOT teach your student to become a chess player, but to appreciate the game. It should then be clear why I am making arguments regarding the disadvantagesof being a chess player along with the advantages of being a person who is simply appreciating the game. Without further ado, I will now begin with my arguments. “Chess is mental torture” – Garry Kasparov [1] “Chess is a war over the board. The object is to crush the opponent’s mind” Bobby Fischer [2] “Chess is life” Bobby Fischer [2] “I learnt an enormous amount, but there came a point where I found there was too much stress. It was no fun anymore. Outside of the chessboard I avoid conflict, so I thought this wasn’t worth it. (On training sessions with Kasparov)” – Magnus Carlsen [3] These quotes came from the mouths of the best of the best chess players that have ever existed, which gives a good introduction to my arguments. As you can witness, the life of a professional chess player (not necessarily those as competitive as them) is incredibly difficult. Argument 1: Downsides of becoming a chess player Sub – Argument 1: Stress in the lives of competitive chess players The level of stress experienced by those of competitive chess players are considerably higher than those of an average person out there in the workforce. For example [1], the following player, who identifies himself to be a competitive player, but isn’t a full-time chess player manages to feel quite a lot of stress. Psychological stress is also a major factor in all chess players and a difficult barrier for many to overcome. As outlined by WGM Natalia Pogonina [4] within the high-class chess players, a simple loss or draw against a player, you could “end up in trouble again and waste a lot of nervous energy along the way”. It distracts you from your future games, makes you hate your opponent, wastes a lot of your energy. For example, an interesting documentary on Garry Kasparov’s [5] loss against Deep Blue (A chess engine) during the peak of his chess abilities tells us how after his first loss to the machine, “it wasn’t simply a loss of the game. It was a loss of the entire match” says Garry Kasparov. After his first loss (details too complicated to explain here. Watch entire documentary for the full idea), he was psychologically destroyed. The “cognitive” psychology within chess has been studied through by Dr Fernand Gobet [6] and as his information shows, not all players are suitable to become great chess players. Quoting from that article: “ It took an average of 11, 000 hours to reach 2200. One player needed around 3, 000 hours to reach 2200, while another player spent more than 23, 000 hours to achieve the same level.” Another interesting factor that I would like to take note of is, with a high level of stress would usually result in high blood pressure. High blood pressure usually leads to higher chances of heart attacks. A good look at the deaths of famous chess players may be of interest. [7] Referring back to the resolution, IF you were a chess coach, would you want to subject your student to such things? Allowing them to suffer intense levels of psychological distress from their failures? (Unless you can expect them to become perfect chess players). Sub – Argument 2: Violence amongst different players The pressure to improve your own game as a competitive chess player appears to be too difficult for some to cope with. As shown here, chess players have been murdered or have been involved with violent activities during the peak of their playing career. On this page [8], a well-detailed page describes the many cases of violence that has occurred during the lives of chess players (not all of these are competent players!). For example, the famous Garry Kasparov: On April 15, 2005, former world chess champion Garry Kasparov was attacked by a man posing as a chess fan who wanted his wooden chess board signed. Instead, he hit Kasparov in the head very hard with the chess board. To something as serious as this: In February 2009, a man killed a friend with a sword after a chess game in Alameda, California. An argument broke out during their game, and the two started wrestling. Joseph Groom retreated to his bedroom and returned with a sword, which he used to stab Kelly Kjersem once. Kjersem later died. Majority of chess players become too emotional after a loss in very important tournaments and end up holding grudges against the victor. Argument 2: Benefits of appreciating the game of chess Sub – Argument 1: Chess is an art Many of you may be wondering, how do you “appreciate” a game of chess? To put simply, chess games or moves can be witnessed like a movie or a good book. A geek with books is able to tell what makes a book good or bad, and a movie critic understands to a great deal what movies are categorised as good for the market. Chess is very much the same. A person educated in chess is able to witness great games of chess. Next question, what is chess? To the beginner, it is merely a board game with random pieces that run around on the board with the aim to capture the king. However, to professionals, it is much more than that. Some regard chess to be a type of science, war, psychological warfare, and lastly, a lot of people regard chess to be art. In the movie “Searching for Bobby Fischer”, Bruce (the chess coach), mentions how Fischer regards chess to be art. “Bobby Fischer got underneath it, like no one before him and found at its centre, art”. There are many things in chess that makes it art. There are many types of games that are beautiful to witness and certainly many different beautiful moves that have been played out. For example, in the following position, it first appears that white is completely lost, yet, a move as crazy as that (shown in green arrow), secures a win. I will briefly outline how this move wins for the white pieces. After the rook moves to that destined square, if the pawn captures the rook, the white pawn moves on square forward to secure a win (with checkmate) and if the black bishop moves, the rook simply captures the black pawn with a win (Checkmate). The move was very unexpected, yet is so powerful, which makes the game of chess so beautiful. There have been many chess games that have caught great attention to chess critics to spend hours on end providing a concise yet thorough analysis of a well-played game. Some of the most famous game ever played have been given the following titles: - The “Immortal” Game (Between Adolf Anderssen and Lionel Kieseritzky) - The “Evergreen“ Game (Between Adolf Anderssen and Jean Dufresne) - Bobby Fischer’s Game of the Century (Bobby Fischer and Donald Byrne) Conclusion: I have spent most of this round arguing why it is not a good idea to coach a student to become a chess player while touching on why it is more beneficial to coach them to appreciate the game. I will spend most of R3 elaborating on why you should teach them to appreciate the game. References: 1. http://www.chessquotes.com...... 2. http://www.chessquotes.com...... 3. http://www.chessquotes.com...... 4. http://www.chess.com...... 5. http://www.youtube.com...;(Video is shown on top) 6. http://www.chess.com...... 7. http://www.chess.com...... 8. http://blog.chess.com...... And, to you, DarckShadows…	PRO	44
44	Sc4621e84-Ab584d2ac	Chess (Full resolution in first round)	I thank TriciaSoledad for accepting my challenge to this debate. As the resolution states, I am proving why you should NOT teach your student to become a chess player, but to appreciate the game. It should then be clear why I am making arguments regarding the disadvantages of chess players along with the advantages of being a person who is simply appreciating the game. Without further ado, I will now begin with my arguments. “Chess is mental torture” – Garry Kasparov [1] “Chess is a war over the board. The object is to crush the opponent’s mind” Bobby Fischer [2] “Chess is life” Bobby Fischer [2] “I learnt an enormous amount, but there came a point where I found there was too much stress. It was no fun anymore. Outside of the chessboard I avoid conflict, so I thought this wasn’t worth it. (On training sessions with Kasparov)” – Magnus Carlsen [3] These quotes came from the mouths of the best of the best chess players that have ever existed, which gives a good introduction to my arguments. As you can witness, the life of a professional chess player (not necessarily those as competitive as them) is incredibly difficult. Argument 1: Downsides of becoming a chess player Sub – Argument 1: Stress in the lives of competitive chess players The level of stress experienced by those of competitive chess players are considerably higher than those of an average person out there in the workforce. For example [1], the following player, who identifies himself to be a competitive player, but isn’t a full-time chess player manages to feel quite a lot of stress. Psychological stress is also a major factor in all chess players and a difficult barrier for many to overcome. As outlined by WGM Natalia Pogonina [4] within the high-class chess players, a simple loss or draw against a player, you could “end up in trouble again and waste a lot of nervous energy along the way”. It distracts you from your future games, makes you hate your opponent, wastes a lot of your energy. For example, an interesting documentary on Garry Kasparov’s [5] loss against Deep Blue (A chess engine) during the peak of his chess abilities tells us how after his first loss to the machine, “it wasn’t simply a loss of the game. It was a loss of the entire match” says Garry Kasparov. After his first loss (details too complicated to explain here. Watch entire documentary for the full idea), he was psychologically destroyed. The “cognitive” psychology within chess has been studied through by Dr Fernand Gobet [6] and as his information shows, not all players are suitable to become great chess players. Quoting for that article: “ It took an average of 11, 000 hours to reach 2200. One player needed around 3, 000 hours to reach 2200, while another player spent more than 23, 000 hours to achieve the same level.” Another interesting factor that I would like to take note of is, with a high level of stress would usually result in high blood pressure. High blood pressure usually leads to higher chances of heart attacks. A good look at the deaths of famous chess players may be of interest. [7] Referring back to the resolution, IF you were a chess coach, would you want to subject your student to such things? Allowing them to suffer intense levels of psychological distress from their failures? (Unless you can expect them to become perfect chess players). Sub – Argument 2: Violence amongst different players The pressure to improve your own game as a competitive chess player appears to be too difficult for some to cope with. As shown here, chess players have been murdered or have been involved with violent activities during the peak of their playing career. On this page [8], a well-detailed page describes the many cases of violence that has occurred during the lives of chess players (not all of these are competent players!). For example, the famous Garry Kasparov: On April 15, 2005, former world chess champion Garry Kasparov was attacked by a man posing as a chess fan who wanted his wooden chess board signed. Instead, he hit Kasparov in the head very hard with the chess board. To something as serious as this: In February 2009, a man killed a friend with a sword after a chess game in Alameda, California. An argument broke out during their game, and the two started wrestling. Joseph Groom retreated to his bedroom and returned with a sword, which he used to stab Kelly Kjersem once. Kjersem later died. Majority of chess players become too emotional after a loss in very important tournaments and end up holding grudges against the victor. Argument 2: Benefits of appreciating the game of chess Sub – Argument 1: Chess is an art Many of you may be wondering, how do you “appreciate” a game of chess? To put simply, chess games or moves can be witnessed like a movie or a good book. A geek with books is able to tell what makes a book good or bad, and a movie critic understands to a great deal what movies are categorised as good for the market. Chess is very much the same. A person educated in chess is able to witness great games of chess. Next question, what is chess? To the beginner, it is merely a board game with random pieces that run around on the board with the aim to capture the king. However, to professionals, it is much more than that. Some regard chess to be a type of science, war, psychological warfare, and lastly, a lot of people regard chess to be art. In the movie “Searching for Bobby Fischer”, Bruce (the chess coach), mentions how Fischer regards chess to be art. “Bobby Fischer got underneath it, like no one before him and found at its centre, art”. There are many things in chess that makes it art. There are many types of games that are beautiful to witness and certainly many different beautiful moves that have been played out. For example, in the following position, it first appears that white is completely lost, yet, a move as crazy as that (shown in green arrow), secures a win. I will briefly outline how this move wins for the white pieces. After the rook moves to that destined square, if the pawn captures the rook, the white pawn moves on square forward to secure a win (with checkmate) and if the black bishop moves, the rook simply captures the black pawn with a win (Checkmate). The move was very unexpected, yet is so powerful, which makes the game of chess so beautiful. There have been many chess games that have caught great attention to chess critics to spend hours on end providing a concise yet thorough analysis of a well-played game. Some of the most famous game ever played have been given the following titles: - The “Immortal” Game (Between Adolf Anderssen and Lionel Kieseritzky) - The “Evergreen“ Game (Between Adolf Anderssen and Jean Dufresne) - Bobby Fischer’s Game of the Century (Bobby Fischer and Donald Byrne) Conclusion: I have spent most of this round arguing why it is not a good idea to coach a student to become a chess player while touching on why it is more beneficial to coach them to appreciate the game. I will spend most of R3 elaborating on why you should teach them to appreciate the game. References: 1. http://www.chessquotes.com... 2. http://www.chessquotes.com... 3. http://www.chessquotes.com... 4. http://www.chess.com... 5. http://www.youtube.com...;(Video shown on top) 6. http://www.chess.com... 7. http://www.chess.com... 8. http://blog.chess.com... And, to you, TriciaSoledad…	PRO	45
45	Sc4621ec2-Aa9f6bc5c	Chess (Full resolution in first round)	I thank TriciaSoledad for accepting my challenge to this debate. As the resolution states, I am NOT proving why you should teach your student to become a chess player, but to appreciate the game. It should then be clear why I am making arguments regarding the disadvantages of being a chess player along with the advantages of being a person who is simply appreciating the game. Without further ado, I will now begin with my arguments. “Chess is mental torture” – Garry Kasparov [1] “Chess is a war over the board. The object is to crush the opponent’s mind” Bobby Fischer [2] “Chess is life” Bobby Fischer [2] “I learnt an enormous amount, but there came a point where I found there was too much stress. It was no fun anymore. Outside of the chessboard I avoid conflict, so I thought this wasn’t worth it. (On training sessions with Kasparov)” – Magnus Carlsen [3] These quotes came from the mouths of the best of the best chess players that have ever existed, which gives a good introduction to my arguments. As you can witness, the life of a professional chess player (not necessarily those as competitive as them) is incredibly difficult. Argument 1: Downsides of becoming a chess player Sub – Argument 1: Stress in the lives of competitive chess players The level of stress experienced by those of competitive chess players are considerably higher than those of an average person out there in the workforce. For example [1], the following player, who identifies himself to be a competitive player, but isn’t a full-time chess player manages to feel quite a lot of stress. Psychological stress is also a major factor in all chess players and a difficult barrier for many to overcome. As outlined by WGM Natalia Pogonina [4] within the high-class chess players, a simple loss or draw against a player, you could “end up in trouble again and waste a lot of nervous energy along the way”. It distracts you from your future games, makes you hate your opponent, wastes a lot of your energy. For example, an interesting documentary on Garry Kasparov’s [5] loss against Deep Blue (A chess engine) during the peak of his chess abilities tells us how after his first loss to the machine, “it wasn’t simply a loss of the game. It was a loss of the entire match” says Garry Kasparov. After his first loss (details too complicated to explain here. Watch entire documentary for the full idea), he was psychologically destroyed. The “cognitive” psychology within chess has been studied through by Dr Fernand Gobet [6] and as his information shows, not all players are suitable to become great chess players. Quoting from that article: “ It took an average of 11, 000 hours to reach 2200. One player needed around 3, 000 hours to reach 2200, while another player spent more than 23, 000 hours to achieve the same level.” Another interesting factor that I would like to take note of is, with a high level of stress would usually result in high blood pressure. High blood pressure usually leads to higher chances of heart attacks. A good look at the deaths of famous chess players may be of interest. [7] Referring back to the resolution, IF you were a chess coach, would you want to subject your student to such things? Allowing them to suffer intense levels of psychological distress from their failures? (Unless you can expect them to become perfect chess players). Sub – Argument 2: Violence amongst different players The pressure to improve your own game as a competitive chess player appears to be too difficult for some to cope with. As shown here, chess players have been murdered or have been involved with violent activities during the peak of their playing career. On this page [8], a well-detailed page describes the many cases of violence that has occurred during the lives of chess players (not all of these are competent players!). For example, the famous Garry Kasparov: On April 15, 2005, former world chess champion Garry Kasparov was attacked by a man posing as a chess fan who wanted his wooden chess board signed. Instead, he hit Kasparov in the head very hard with the chess board. To something as serious as this: In February 2009, a man killed a friend with a sword after a chess game in Alameda, California. An argument broke out during their game, and the two started wrestling. Joseph Groom retreated to his bedroom and returned with a sword, which he used to stab Kelly Kjersem once. Kjersem later died. Majority of chess players become too emotional after a loss in very important tournaments and end up holding grudges against the victor. Argument 2: Benefits of appreciating the game of chess Sub – Argument 1: Chess is an art Many of you may be wondering, how do you “appreciate” a game of chess? To put simply, chess games or moves can be witnessed like a movie or a good book. A geek with books is able to tell what makes a book good or bad, and a movie critic understands to a great deal what movies are categorised as good for the market. Chess is very much the same. A person educated in chess is able to witness great games of chess. Next question, what is chess? To the beginner, it is merely a board game with random pieces that run around on the board with the aim to capture the king. However, to professionals, it is much more than that. Some regard chess to be a type of science, war, psychological warfare, and lastly, a lot of people regard chess to be art. In the movie “Searching for Bobby Fischer”, Bruce (the chess coach), mentions how Fischer regards chess to be art. “Bobby Fischer got underneath it, like no one before him and found at its centre, art”. There are many things in chess that makes it art. There are many types of games that are beautiful to witness and certainly many different beautiful moves that have been played out. For example, in the following position, it first appears that white is completely lost, yet, a move as crazy as that (shown in green arrow), secures a win. I will briefly outline how this move wins for the white pieces. After the rook moves to that destined square, if the pawn captures the rook, the white pawn moves on square forward to secure a win (with checkmate) and if the black bishop moves, the rook simply captures the black pawn with a win (Checkmate). The move was very unexpected, yet is so powerful, which makes the game of chess so beautiful. There have been many chess games that have caught great attention to chess critics to spend hours on end providing a concise yet thorough analysis of a well-played game. Some of the most famous game ever played have been given the following titles: - The “Immortal” Game (Between Adolf Anderssen and Lionel Kieseritzky) - The “Evergreen“ Game (Between Adolf Anderssen and Jean Dufresne) - Bobby Fischer’s Game of the Century (Bobby Fischer and Donald Byrne) Conclusion: I have spent most of this round arguing why it is not a good idea to coach a student to become a chess player while touching on why it is more beneficial to coach them to appreciate the game. I will spend most of R3 elaborating on why you should teach them to appreciate the game. References: 1. http://www.chessquotes.com......... 2. http://www.chessquotes.com......... 3. http://www.chessquotes.com......... 4. http://www.chess.com......... 5. http://www.youtube.com...;(Video is shown on top) 6. http://www.chess.com......... 7. http://www.chess.com......... 8. http://blog.chess.com......... And, to you, TriciaSoledad…	PRO	46
46	S1979ed8c-A51955474	Chess is a sport	"According to your definitions, it is a game is a ""a competitive activity involving skill, chance, or endurance on the part of two or more persons who play according to a set of rules, usually for their own amusement or for that of spectators."" However,sports are games to according to this definition. So sports are games to. Chess meets all the criteria of a sport."	PRO	47
47	S1979ed8c-Ae199705b	Chess is a sport	"Hello, I really want to have a debate with you after seeing your other debates. I will be in favour of the statement ""Chess is a sport"". You will be against such."	PRO	48
48	Sc367a7db-A842fdae4	There is an Ideal Opening Move in Chess	Introduction: I will build up my case through a series of theorems ending with a proof of the resolution. I will do my best to make it clear and easy to follow. Theorem 1: Chess is a finite game. Definition 1: Board State A board state is an ordered 64-tuple set giving the occupier, if any, of every piece on the board. Unoccupied spaces are marked by blanks. It starts at A1, then goes to A2, etc... until it reaches H8. Some convention could be adopted for naming pieces (W for White, B for Black, R for Rook, B for Bishop, # for empty, etc.). Thus the starting position is {WR, WK, ...BR}. An integer can be assigned to each board state (1 for the starting position, 2 for some first move, 3 for some other first move, etc up to about 10^45 if we only worry about legal positions). Lemma 1: There are finitely many positions in chess. There are 32 pieces on a chess board (only 4 of which are unique) and 64 positions. There are only a limited number of ways to assign finite number of pieces to a finite number of spaces (though this number is large). A large number of these board states are not accessible from the starting position, are identical because they involve switching non-unique pieces, or involve less than 32 pieces (the minimum number of pieces on the board at the beginning of a turn is 3). Lemma 2: There are only finitely many possible turns in chess. A chess game ends if fifty moves have passed without a piece being captured. If a king is captured or only kings remain, the game ends. This means that no chess game can be longer than 1500 moves (the maximum time to exchange the other 30 pieces). Definition 2: Game State A game state is an ordered pair giving the board state and turn number of a chess game. For example, {92385983475928740239756183610947261, 56} might be a game state. Not every game state is necessarily legal (example: {1, 2}). A game state is called an end state if it results in the game's ending (there is a checkmate or draw). Conclusion: The game states exhaust the possibilities for chess. A game with the game state given is fully described. The number of game states is finite (equal to the product of the number of positions and the number of turns). Therefore, the game of chess is finite. Theorem 2: If a position that ends the game is accessible from the position at the beginning of a player's turn, that player can guarantee that the game will end. Lemma 3: There is no chance in chess. There is chance in a game if a player does not know the outcome of a move before deciding to make it. When a player attacks in Risk, he or she does not know how many armies will remain at what territories afterward. In chess, a piece always moves to the desired position. Lemma 4: Chess is a game of perfect information. A game of perfect information is a game in which every player has access to all the information about the game. A game that hinges on imperfect information is Stratego. In Stratego, the value of each player's pieces is concealed from the other player. In chess, both players can see everything relevant to the game on the board before their eyes; there are no hidden variables. Lemma 5: Every position has finitely many positions that are accessible from it. This is entailed by Claim 1. No matter what moves were allowed, a move could only change the current game state to a new game state (and where the current turn number was n, the new turn number would have to be n + 1. Though time travel could make chess very interesting!). Conclusion: If a position is a game ending position, a player can determine that it is because there is perfect information. There is finite set of positions accessible from a given position in chess, so the player can always determine if one of them is a game ending position by analyzing each one. The player can also guarantee that a move will lead to the desired position because there is no chance. Final Proof: There is an ideal opening move in chess. Lemma 6: With each move, the number of accessible game states is reduced. This follows trivially from Theorem 1. Regardless of what moves are allowed, the turn number is increased by 1, and so the number of game states degrees by the cardinality of the set of board states. Because it is not legal to simply rearrange the pieces however one chooses each turn, the possibilities are in fact reduced far more rapidly. Lemma 7: An ending state is accessible from every game state that is not itself an ending state. This simply follows from the fact that the game does indeed end. Lemma 8: A player can only move into an end state that results in a tie or a win. This is a logical consequence of the rule that one may not put oneself in checkmate. Definition 3: Chess Tree From every game state A, there is a finite set of game states reachable from it (the legal max is 218 and the minimum is of course 0 for end states). Call the members of this set B1 ... BN. From each of B1...BN, there is a new set of game states accessible for that position. This process is recursive until the set of game states accessible from a final game state is empty. These can be arranged in a topological structure called a chess tree, which will be used to visualize the game. Such a tree would look like this, but it would be of much greater complexity: http://i.investopedia.com... Assumption: There is a path down the tree that will allow White to win or tie the game no matter what Black does. White can try tracing every path down the tree. If any path leads to a game state in which it is Black's turn and Black has an ideal move, that path is abandoned and a new path is attempted. If there is a path leading to a White tie or win regardless of what Black does, then every move in that tree, including the first move, is an ideal move for White (because, per the definition, it enables White to guarantee a victory). If such a tree exists, the resolution is true. Suppose that no such path exists for White. That means that if Black plays correctly, there is no way that White can win the game or intiate a tie. But the game must end, so that means that Black can guarantee a win or a tie from the starting position. Any correct move that Black makes from the starting position would be considered an ideal move. Conclusion: The result was first proved (more rigorously, but for different chess rules) by Ernest Zermelo in 1913. It should be stressed that no one knows what the ideal opening move in chess is or whether it belongs to White or Black (though it seems more plausible tha it is White's... if it is Black's then the starting positon is a Zugzwang), but we can be sure that such a move does indeed exist. If we are persistent and do not die in some terrible disaster, humans will eventually solve the game of chess just as we have solved the game of checkers. Any game that is basically finite can eventually be solved by looking at all the possibilities. This is obvious in the case of Tic-Tac-Toe, the solution to which can easily be visalized: http://www.csc.csudh.edu... Chess is a mathematically trivial game in the same way, it's just a great deal more computationally complex.	PRO	49
49	S847f0140-A2f4b6cba	Chess is not need in Schools	What you have said is true but what about the Kids that have disabilities? some kids don't want to play or if they wanted to they would have to gone to chess club but not every student is at chess club. Students are already learning Math, English. Science, PDHPE, Swimming, Singing, Art, Drama, Languages, Computer skills, Business skills, Typing, Learning to talk, Count, Learning the alphabet and much more in just 5 days 8:30 - 3:00 and not even homework will count for that. lets face it school has a lot of subjects and its just too much to just add one in even if its just chess	PRO	50
50	Sb797e0ae-A19071cc1	Chess is the best board game	"Hello everyone, Today's resolution will be ""that chess is the best board game"". I will be arguing in support of this resolution. My opponent, good luck to whoever it is, will select one board game and post it in round one, without any arguments. It will be their burdon of prove that that game is superior to chess and mine to prove that chess is the better game. I would rather we didn't vote for ourselves, except in the event that the other person flakes out in the last round and the debate doesn't show up on the main page. That would be acceptable. By accepting this debate, you accept these terms, which I think are reasonable and fair. The debate will begin in round two."	PRO	51
51	S963ff5f1-A101f620d	Woman are not as good as men in chess.	Women hardly play chess; though I’m sure if ms.youngest math professor in the world ever, tried a hand at it she would beat any guy across the board. Chess is a war game, Bobby Fischer, by far the greatest Chess Master the ‘west’ has ever produced was never academically strong. The best chess players come from patriarchal societies mainly/namely Russia and China where girls are not brought forward in extracurricular activities as much as men. I personally beat my brother a lot when we were younger; he kept calling it luck. We don’t play anymore.	CON	52
52	Sb797e0ae-A261a2f4e	Chess is the best board game	"ARGUMENTS: Extend my previous arguments, since they have not yet been addressed. REBUTTALS: ""Monopoly appeals to the competitive nature of every individual in a way no other board game does hence the popularity."" ---I strongly disagree. The first INTERNATIONAL chess tournament was in 1851, in London [1]. The first Monopoly Championship was held in 1973 [2]. Given that chess was being played before the United States was even founded, I don't see how Monopoly can hold a bar to Chess in this area. As previously mentioned, due to the large amount of ‘chance' involved in Monopoly and the nature of the game, I don't see how it can really be played competitively. It would be like a Bingo championship. Chess on the other hand, is being considered as an Olympic Sport [3] ""No, everybody has fun because monopoly is a representation of real life ; a different life that only few people in reality live in. This aspect of the game makes it easy and very tempting to get passionate about the game."" ---I think Monopoly is as close a representation of Real Estate brokering as Chess is of Medieval Battle. Furthermore, any game can bring out the passion in its players. ""Monopoly is an interactive game and humans love that. Ever heard of facebook ? http://www.facebook.com...... Now what does facebook provide ? Interaction with human beings. People love to communicate and monopoly players will do that when the players begin to trade. The more the merrier hence monopoly is best played with around 5 players while chess is limited to two and even then there's not much interaction."" ---This brings me back to my point about the language barrier. You can't have your cake and eat it too. However, there are many, many games like Monopoly (referred to as ""Roll the dice, move your mice"" [4]) and they all have these factors. What exactly makes Monopoly better than Risk or The Game of Life? (Also, is posting Facebook a source? I think not) ""Monopoly is a lighthearted game and it appeals to all ages due to its simplicity. Honestly, a ten year old could learn it and play it in minutes. Wherefore, monopoly can very easily be played for fun ,nevertheless, it can very easily become a serious game due to its competitive nature."" ---The exact same thing could be said about Chess, although it might take a ten year old a bit longer to learn it. ""Monopoly welcomes change with open hands. One can change the amount of dice one roles, whatever or not one begins with owning property, the amount of money one has at the start, one can create teams (encouraging communication), one can have a time limit to shorten the game, one can change the meaning of cards and etcetera. In this way monopoly can be considered many games. In any case monopoly has a wide appeal."" ---All of the factors you mentioned don't actually change the game at all. It's still the same game, with the same goal, the same move sequence, the same properties and the same boot. In order to change the game, one must buy a different themed Monopoly and even then, it's still the same game but with a donut instead of a boot. Chess is a classic game for a reason. Although the basis of the game was invented in the 6th century, the modern version of chess was formed around the 15th. [5] That's 500 years that the game has remained the same. It doesn't need to change. It's the perfect game. CONCLUSION: My opponent's arguments seemed to dance around the idea that Monopoly is more fun than Chess, yet he didn't provide any evidence to support this. The history of Chess proves that the game is enjoyable, especially to those that learn to play the game well. Monopoly is fun, but can quickly become frustrating. One can make all the right moves and all the right decisions and still lose the game. In Chess, even if a beginner is playing a grand master, all they have to beat each other with is their brains and those 16 pieces. Chess is superior to Monopoly. Vote PRO. SOURCES: [1] The chess tournament: A collection of the games played at this celebrated tournament, by Howard Staunton, 1852: http://books.google.com... [2] http://www.suite101.com... [3] http://reports.chessdom.com... [4] http://boardgamegeek.com... [5] http://www.chess.com..."	PRO	53
53	S1979edab-A5e0c711e	Chess is a sport	"Once again that's not how BOP works, if it comes down to it and no points stand i still win because you haven't fulfilled your BOP, my argument have been explained and your responded to them last round without issues, this is simply a poor last ditch effort to get points. She herself has broken her own rules by bringing up new Cards when she clearly calls for this round to be used as a rebuttal only. I showed evidence and provided logic behind why physical exertion is physical movement and why thinking is mental exertion. my opponent contradicts herself in her introduction while criticizing how I debate by stating ""let's use some logic."" (as if I weren't using any logic or needed a capitalized reminder) "" then commencing to saying ""Having a strong opinion doesn't mean we can't talk freely on an equal level; there is no need to rhetorically attack one's statements, if we can attack them logically."" she essentially criticizes me and the says what she criticized me for. I find this conduct unruly and should provide you with reason to move conduct points in my favor. And lastly my opponent didn't refute my definition until now and through omission of the evidence it still stands. Response to Mental and Physical exertion are absolutely to separate; At no point did i claim thoughts were magic i simply stated its not physical exertion, but instead mental. my opponent doesn't refute this and instead stated what we use our brain for. All of which require mental, and not physical, exertion. Response to Exertion is not Exhaustion ; Once again because you get tired does not mean you are participating in a sport, and in fact doing nothing does exhaust you, THIS IS WHERE MY OPPONENT IS CONFUSED, she thinks exhaustion causes a sport, STANDING CAUSES EXAUSTION, thus her logic states STANDING IS THUS A SPORT. which we all know is absurd, standing is not a sport and neither is chess because at no point in this argument does my opponent show how chess requires physical exertion. Response to Standing would be sport according to my logic; to clairify on stress my opponent in round two states chess ""can also trigger stress reactions"" im stating just because there are stress reactions doesn't mean there is a sport going on. But real quick im going to address my opponents flawed requirements for a sport; Chess isn't a competition as I have shown and qualifies as a game, however it doesn't meet the requirements to be called a sport (Physical Exertion). STANDING: - it's an activity - it requires skill (Balance) - teams and individuals may under some odd circumstances compete against each other (i used to work at a bowling alley, I was in these odd circumstances once...) - it requires physical exertion -when children first stand parents are entertained Thus its a sport, but we all know standing isn't a sport, so whats missing here? Standing doesn't require physical exertion, people aren't moving, but it still causes exhaustion. CONCLUSION -my opponent has yet to show any physical exertion that is shown in chess, she didn't argue with the observation of mental exertion rather than physical. -she hasn't fulfilled her BOP proving the resolution was true. -she brought up new arguments in the last round I have addressed every issue my opponent has brought up and she refutes them by simply restating what she said in the first place. Because my opponent has not fulfilled the BOP we can only see a ballot in favor of the NEG"	CON	54
54	S9f7eedfb-Aabb175f0	Chess should not be an Olympic sport	I do not believe chess to be a worthy Olympic sport. I will post my reasons in the debate. I will withhold my bias against chess as I was never any good at it. I thank whoever debates me on this topic.	PRO	55
55	Sc4621f00-Af7ffcd84	Chess (Full resolution in first round)	Full Resolution: As a chess coach, you should not teach your student to become a chess player, but to teach them to appreciate the game. I am PRO, therefore arguing to that given resolution. My opponent (CON) will be arguing against that resolution. BOP is shared. Rules of this debate: First round is ACCEPTANCE ONLY No new arguments in last round. Last round for final rebuttals, defence and summarisation. Definitions: Chess player: A person who plays chess tournaments for money, fame, sponsorships etc. Chess coach: A person who teaches an adult or a child to improve their ability to play the game of chess. Appreciate: To be grateful, to recognise the beauty of etc. (definition should be clear in the context of this debate). Other definitions should be common sense. And of course, no semantics and trolling. I hope both my opponent and I will gain something from this debate after it is finished. Good Luck!	PRO	56
56	Sc4621ea3-Af7ffcd84	Chess (Full resolution in first round)	Full Resolution: As a chess coach, you should not teach your student to become a chess player, but to teach them to appreciate the game. I am PRO, therefore arguing to that given resolution. My opponent (CON) will be arguing against that resolution. BOP is shared. Rules of this debate: First round is ACCEPTANCE ONLY No new arguments in last round. Last round for final rebuttals, defence and summarisation. Definitions: Chess player: A person who plays chess tournaments for money, fame, sponsorships etc. Chess coach: A person who teaches an adult or a child to improve their ability to play the game of chess. Appreciate: To be grateful, to recognise the beauty of etc. (definition should be clear in the context of this debate). Other definitions should be common sense. And of course, no semantics and trolling. I hope both my opponent and I will gain something from this debate after it is finished. Good Luck!	PRO	57
57	Sc4621e84-Af7ffcd84	Chess (Full resolution in first round)	Full Resolution: As a chess coach, you should not teach your student to become a chess player, but to teach them to appreciate the game. I am PRO, therefore arguing to that given resolution. My opponent (CON) will be arguing against that resolution. BOP is shared. Rules of this debate: First round is ACCEPTANCE ONLY No new arguments in last round. Last round for final rebuttals, defence and summarisation. Definitions: Chess player: A person who plays chess tournaments for money, fame, sponsorships etc. Chess coach: A person who teaches an adult or a child to improve their ability to play the game of chess. Appreciate: To be grateful, to recognise the beauty of etc. (definition should be clear in the context of this debate). Other definitions should be common sense. And of course, no semantics and trolling. I hope both my opponent and I will gain something from this debate after it is finished. Good Luck!	PRO	58
58	Sc4621ec2-Af7ffcd84	Chess (Full resolution in first round)	Full Resolution: As a chess coach, you should not teach your student to become a chess player, but to teach them to appreciate the game. I am PRO, therefore arguing to that given resolution. My opponent (CON) will be arguing against that resolution. BOP is shared. Rules of this debate: First round is ACCEPTANCE ONLY No new arguments in last round. Last round for final rebuttals, defence and summarisation. Definitions: Chess player: A person who plays chess tournaments for money, fame, sponsorships etc. Chess coach: A person who teaches an adult or a child to improve their ability to play the game of chess. Appreciate: To be grateful, to recognise the beauty of etc. (definition should be clear in the context of this debate). Other definitions should be common sense. And of course, no semantics and trolling. I hope both my opponent and I will gain something from this debate after it is finished. Good Luck!	PRO	59
59	Sc4621e65-Af7ffcd84	Chess (Full resolution in first round)	Full Resolution: As a chess coach, you should not teach your student to become a chess player, but to teach them to appreciate the game. I am PRO, therefore arguing to that given resolution. My opponent (CON) will be arguing against that resolution. BOP is shared. Rules of this debate: First round is ACCEPTANCE ONLY No new arguments in last round. Last round for final rebuttals, defence and summarisation. Definitions: Chess player: A person who plays chess tournaments for money, fame, sponsorships etc. Chess coach: A person who teaches an adult or a child to improve their ability to play the game of chess. Appreciate: To be grateful, to recognise the beauty of etc. (definition should be clear in the context of this debate). Other definitions should be common sense. And of course, no semantics and trolling. I hope both my opponent and I will gain something from this debate after it is finished. Good Luck!	PRO	60
60	S17224160-A254e0c8a	chess sucks	chess suck cause you play the same game 100 times who would not think its dumb? i would rather play with dolls than that dumb old boring game	CON	61
61	Sc367a7db-Aa3ab53d2	There is an Ideal Opening Move in Chess	"Introduction: This debate has become somewhat disorganized, so I'll pick out the key points so I can respond concisely. I will try to do so as charitably as possible. Con still seems to have numerous misunderstandings. His case rests on trying to differentiate chess from other solvable games based on irrelevant differences. Theorem 1: Con his agreed to this. I ask that it not be contested next round since I will not be able to reply. The Resolution: Con's argument here rests on his overlooking of the word ""enable."" You can always voluntarily throw a game of chess (unless you are in an odd configuration where a loss is literally impossible). A guaranteed win is enabled if the player cannot fail to win if he makes the right moves. The fact that players do in fact make the wrong moves is irrelevant. Con's interpretation of an ideal move is silly. As I said in Round 3, this means that no game can have a perfect strategy, even ""Who can name the highest number?"" because a player can fail to employ that strategy. Surely whether or not something is often done correctly has no bearing on whether or not there is indeed a correct way. Chance in Chess: Con is still confusing the difference between uncertainty in the game and human error. It is perfectly consistent to say that a person will fail to take information into account that is available to him. The rules of the game allow Player A to see that a rook threatens his bishop. If he doesn't notice and makes the wrong move as a result, that is a result of his error, not uncertainty within the game about whether the rook was threatening this bishop. Against, contrast with Risk and Stratego, games of genuine uncertainty. Con does agree that players will always move successfully. But maybe some people are so stupid they can't even do that, or play chess at all? Why does Con arbitrarily choose the average human as his standard? It is surely plausible that chess grandmasters (or even skilled amateurs) never fail to perceive events on the board. What his argument really hinges on is our inability to comprehend every possible sequence of events. But this has nothing to do with chess either; it's a coincidence of biology (or really physics). A computer program has been designed that is unbeatable at checkers, and the only reason that chess has not been similarly solved is that it is more complex and requires more computing power. He is taking a purely human-centric approach to a game that exists in the abstract. If it is easier, pretend that there is a race of supermen who are smarter than the smartest computer and never make mistakes. If they play chess, it will still be the same game, but none of these factors will apply. It is silly to define solubility in terms of human brain or computational power. Otherwise abstract mathematical problems (what is the 9347109374th prime?) could switch from solvable to unsolvable based on human technology. But solubility is itself an abstract mathematical concept and should not change when a computer is invented. Game States & Chess Trees: Con seems to agree to my prior claims. However, there is a discrepancy: Con: ""I mistook this argument as the Pro claiming that there exists a path from the beginning of the game to the end that always guarantees a win or a tie."" I did say that! You examine the tree for White and see if there is a path that leads to a win or tie no matter what Black does. If there is, White has a perfect strategy. If not, then no matter what White does, Black can counter. But that means Black has a perfect strategy, because Black can always counter White! It's a really elegant proof when you understand it. Finiteness of Chess: The real debate seems to lie under this heading, though it is a misnomer because Con agrees that chess is finite and thinks there are complicating factors. Con seems to agree that Tic-Tac-Toe is solvable (though he seems to contradict himself on this), and argues that chess is meaningfully different. I interpret his argument like this: ""Tic-Tac-Toe is different from chess because in Tac-Tac-Toe, nothing is ever undone. In chess, pieces can be removed, moved, and switched, but in Tic-Tac-Toe they can only be added."" But my argument is indifferent to this entirely. It only concerns game states. What the differences between those game states are determined by is irrelevant to the solution to the game. An equivalent game to chess (which would be much harder to understand) would consist of nothing more than a series of numbers representing game states and functions represented moves. The board, the pieces, and the legal moves are all irrelevant to the fact that the game states can be arranged in a topological structure according to which the correct combinations are legally accessible from one another. I emphasize the word topological because the final design of this tree is the only important thing. Con has nothing more than an unproven intuition that more complex rules meaningfully alter the inherent nature of the game. The only reason I need to appeal to the rules at all is to justify Theorem 1, which is very obviously correct. Con says: ""Just because one wins a game of chess it doesnt imply that a perfect strategy exists because that particular route to victory that person just took could have been countered in numerous ways, along with any other path to victory that other people have taken."" This is to miss the point entirely. I am sure that the huge majority of paths can be countered. The question is, can all of them? As we see above, either answer implies an ideal move! If there is a sure path to victory, then each move that leads down it is an ideal move. If there is no path, then the opponent has a series of ideal moves to victory: counter every time! Con also says, "" If a move were truly ideal then it would still be able to guarantee victory despite human error..."" I think this is a preposterous standard because a player can always throw a game. Con must agree that there a situations in which a player can force checkmate later in the game. This is the premise on which chess puzzles rest. I defy Con to tell us that there is no ideal move for Black in this position: http://0.tqn.com... Yet surely he can fail to make it. Con must give up this argument to stay in the bounds of a reasonable discussion. Conclusion: My initial proof and subsequent explanation meet the ""weak MIT standard"" of proof: while not fully deductive from axioms, it is laid out in common language rigorously enough so as to be immune to attack from a well caffeinated mathematician. The Con position is based on mistaken intuitions about the game. He brings in a series of folk game theoretic notions like luck, mistakes, and odds. Luck and odds are rigorously defined in terms of probability and they do not exist in chess. Someone who claims to have lost chess because of luck or who says the game is broken because of a mistake is surely a sore loser. In my opinion, a great deal of appreciation for the mathematical beauty of the world is lost by restricting oneself to simplistic conceptual schemes such as this. Accordingly, Con has offered no proof whatsoever that his objections are actually relevant. I have thoroughly examined each of them an explained why that are not. Voting Points: These are my suggestions on who you should vote for. I'll explain why I think this is good to do in the comments if anyone cares. I urge Con to include this also. Conduct: Tie I think that conduct was good on both sides. Spelling and Grammar: Pro Con makes numerous spelling and grammatical errors, and his case is badly organized. I have occasional typos, but I am generally far more articulate. Arguments: Pro See my conclusion :D Sources: Tie Sources were not important to this debate, so I urge a tie vote."	PRO	62
62	S1f6a3f53-A67ab6e8b	Chess ought to qualify as an Olympic sport	Chess is not a predominantly physical sport, yet neither are shooting and curling (which, in fact, has been nicknamed “chess on ice”5). The opposition may respond that the determining factor in these is still physical, such as speed and precision. However, chess too requires precise calculation in short periods of time. There is no relevant distinction to be drawn between the human brain and other organs: both can be trained and strained, and doing so should be equally rewarded. More importantly, taekwondo is a further example of what may be called a mind sport. As in chess, both participants have the same set of moves which can be combined in a near infinite number of ways: it thus becomes a battle of intellect and strategy rather than strength. The body merely becomes the vessel through which to compete, precisely as a chess board. Although the vessels are different, the fundamental activity is the same, and thus if taekwondo is valid as an Olympic sport, so should chess be. [5] Tomlinson, Brett. “Chess on ice”, Princeton Alumni Weekly, 28 January 2009. http://paw.princeton.edu/issues/2009/01/28/pages/5296/index.xml	PRO	63
63	Sc4621f00-Aca47f63f	Chess (Full resolution in first round)	"I thank my opponent for instigating this round and framing the guidelines that it should operate under so clearly. Through the course of this round I intend to refute Pro's arguments and through my refutations establish reasons to vote for the Con. My arguments therefore will be both constructive as well as serve to refute the Pro's constructive arguments. The overarching thesis behind Con's negation will be that anything one works towards, they should work towards with intentions of greatness. Simply participating in an activity is not good enough, but participants must give their activity everything they have. However, in that same vein of thought, one must not allow their pride to get the better of them. Going on to my opponent's constructive, 1. The downsides of becoming a Chess Player- Garry Kasparov, considered by many the greatest Chess Player in history is not an accurate assessment of the stress felt by all Chess players. As for the article by Natalia Pogonina, it explicitly speaks on how chess players should not allow their losses to frustrate them to such high degree, not that losing could have that the irreparable psychological damage that Pro Posits it would[1]. The given article even gives suggestions to use the psychological frustration to the player's advantage; As Vladimir Akopian stated ""[2]Losses and defeats are a part of a professional chess player's life just like upheavals and victories. Of course I'd like to have fewer defeats. For me losing a game or an overall tournament failure is not a tragedy."" and Wang Yue ""[2] Life is life, chess is chess. OK. I lost. So what?"" [1] http://www.chess.com... [2] http://elista2008.fide.com... So onto the loss of Garry Kasparov to Deep Blue in my opponent's cited video, it is apparent that Kasparov's frustration comes as the result of his pride being shattered - not an implicit effect of being a Chess Player. Kasparov outright forfeited one of his six rounds against Deep Blue after because computer made a move he wasn't expecting, and towards the end of the documentary states in so many words the he wished he hadn't made such a big deal out of his loss. Kasparov didn't like being humbled, especially after making fun of the notion that a computer could play Chess; his downfall was by his own pride. As for the high blood pressure argument[3], the only Grandmaster to die of a heart attacks at a young ages were Gyula Brewer and 28 and Leonid Stein at 38. Furthermore these were grandmaster players, not typical players; this argument is not an accurate illustration of a common chess player. [3] http://www.chess.com... Finally on the issue of violence, the two examples my opponent offers are from a list that details a large number of deaths related to Chess; not all of them were even from chess players. One of the examples on the given list[4] talks about a prisoner killing another prisoner for refusing to stop commenting on his game with another inmate. If one is prone to violence they're going to be violent whether their coach teaches them to love the game or play competitively. [4] http://blog.chess.com... That said stress is a natural thing for anyone doing something difficult. You don't get to the same level as Kaspov or Kasparov without being a little stressed at times. To assert that this stress stands as a reason not to work towards that greatness is to say that anything challenging isn't worthwhile. 2. Benefits of appreciating the game- As my opponent clearly states in her opening remarks, one who becomes a chess player is more than likely going to appreciate the game. It would be really sad if one committed so much time and energy to Chess and didn't appreciate it. So the first refutation here is simply that these benefits aren't unique to my opponent's advocacy. Bobby Fischer was once cited with saying, ""[5]I like the moment I break a man's ego.""; this is an appreciation of not just the game, but of competition. And while I agree a good game of Chess is an art, it's more than just that. Chess is a competition, a game, a challenge -- for a coach not to equip their pupil with the necessary tools to excel at this challenge is for the coach to fail their student. [5] http://www.chessquotes.com... Keeping this in mind, paying a coach isn't a cheap ordeal[6]. Victor Mikhalevski of Isreal charges $75 an hour to coach, Rakhmanov Aleksandr charges $400 for ten hours of private training[7] and Sam Shankland charges $85 and hour for person lessons[8]. The were just the top three listed coaches on Chess.com who listed their hourly price. clicking any of these coaches profile's mirrors the same sentiment; that paying for a Chess coach isn't cheap. [6] www.chess.com/coach/victor-mikhalevski [7] http://www.chess.com... [8] http://www.chess.com... The question at this point is one of justification; if the coach is only teaching a student to appreciate the game, something they already appreciate if they're paying this much for lessons, they're wasting their money. As much as chess is an art, competition is also an art. When Chess coaches teach their students only to appreciate the game, the art of competition suffers damage possibly beyond the point of repair. However when Chess coaches teach their students to be Chess Players, there is a benefit to both of the aforementioned arts; neither is forced to suffer. In conclusion, nourishing effective competition should be the goal of a Chess coach. If they fail to stimulate this competitive spirit then they've done their students no good. Back to you Famer!"	CON	64
64	Sdb654555-A218c8ab0	Chess isn't a sport.	Let's add monopoly to the Olympics. Olympic sports are supposed to be physical and not mental. If chess is added to the Olympics, then Yoga can also be added.	PRO	65
65	Sc4621f00-Afc33618	Chess (Full resolution in first round)	The biggest thing is that a chess coach has a responsibility for how a student treats chess within their lives for their future. They must understand that IF their student becomes a chess player, everything that they must face. A good coach will do what they should (What would be more beneficial etc.) do for their student. They will understand that if their student became a chess player, they will: - Have a standard income at GM-levelled playing ability (Takes approx. 10,000 hours of chess study [1] to achieve such playing ability) - Be forced to deal with psychological distress from their losses - Earn their income based on how well they perform in tournaments, where simply one mistake could take away a large portion of what they could have earned. On the other hand, if their student simply appreciated the game: - They have much more varieties in life as they have not bonded their life to the game. This could include achieving a job that they equally enjoy with a much better salary. People who are diligent enough to study 10,000 hours to acheive something are capable of attaining better paying jobs than becoming Grand-master chess players. - Take breaks from playing if they suffer a loss from a fun tournament. - Still love the game as much as a chess player, without being obliged to deal with high levels of stress. Defence/Refutations: “To attempt to sway them from this goal due to fear of potential harms is abhorid; it makes the awful assumption that a person is incapable of of accomplishing the goal of becoming a chess player.” (Correct spelling: Abhorred) Simply by not aiming to produce a chess player out of your student does not mean you are making an awful assumption that a person is incapable of becoming a chess player. To quote myself, and to ask CON along with the readers/voters: “If a chess student has grown to love the game after being taught by a good chess coach, and loves looking over brilliantly played-out chess games, does this really mean that the coach has failed their student?” I’d like to point out that at this point whether or not I have used the two fallacies “ad hoc rescue” and “cherry picking” is not directly related to the debate and could be considered as a “straw man” tactic. Whether not I have used these two fallacies, it is important to note that my refutations were there to serve as a form of defence and clarification towards my arguments. Either way, in response to the “cherry picking” claim, my opponent has still not proved my argument wrong or doubtful, but simply went about saying I used forum-based sources. I will provide other sources to back up my point that GM chess players only reasonable salaries [2]. Source two, an article written by IM Silman says “the competition for the little money that’s out there is intense.” Note that his article (ignoring the part talking about the French Def.) is only relevant to talking about GMs and how most will resolve to writing and teaching. Another article [3] this time from WGM Natalia Pogonina says that GM’s would generally make between $50-$70k per year. However, we must note that the article talks about teaching, writing and other money-making techniques that are not relevant to this debate. I’d assume there is no more “cherry picking” from here. Either way, CON has failed to prove one of my major argument to be wrong, but only resulted to accusing my sources over the argument presented. Instead of attacking my arguments, he had attacked my sources. Garry Kasparov vs. Deep Blue The biggest problem is that Garry Kasparov’s suspicions for the cases of human intervention were too evident that he had lost hope completely. And, it is common sense of the Deep Blue team to deny any sense of cheating as it would result in a loss of their pride, their reputation and all of the time and money that they have put. Here are some reasons as outlined by the documentary of their cheating: - At one point, the computer took 15 minutes to make one move (it’s actually able to analyse 200 million moves per minute [4] I apologise for the mistake made in the previous round. Does that mean it really made 180 billion analyses for one move?) - Apparently the computer missed a simple draw by repetition tactic. Again, 200 million moves analyses per minute, I’d regard this to be impossible and only a human is capable of making that type of error. - Apparently the engine had an error, during the middle of the second match. A machine that has been developed for many years suddenly has an error during the middle of a match? Now that’s a bit fishy… - The documentary clearly states that he won the first game easily, and got completely crushed in the second game. Is it really that possible to improve the machine that much in one night? Garry would not have been psychologically affected from a win, as it was rather usual for him to attain victory. Garry’s team were wondering why it was “so easy” to beat the machine once again, after an entire year. It is also important to understand that my opponent’s only argument to hold his stand is something along the lines of “a chess player loves the game and therefore must sacrifice everything they have for it”. As this is the final round, no more arguments are permitted in this round, and if they are presented, it should be ignored and should result in a loss of conduct point. Let me remind you that someone who appreciates the game, from spectating well-played out games also loves the game as much as a chess player does. Yet, they on the other hand, are not forced to deal with a harmful (to their health) amount of stress (this is bound to happen) and will not lose a great deal of money simply from making a mistake in an important chess game. A chess coach also has a big influence over what their student become in the future. A good chess coach will do what they would consider to be more beneficial towards the student as well as consider the outcomes of their actions. A simple-minded chess coach will just train their student to become the best chess player possible. A smarter chess coach will realise that creating a grandmaster chess player, they will generally be following the 10 000 hour rule before they have achieved that level. It is common sense that anyone who has that much diligence should use it for other purposes which are more beneficial on a long-term scale, such as attaining a well-payed job e.g. doctor or lawyer etc. Note that the resolution never mentioned which path the student wishes to take, so the bias from the students’ wishes are non-existent and must be solely based upon the coach’s judgements. So now, if you as a reader believe that a chess coach should train their students to become a chess player, where they will be forced to deal with huge amounts of distress and depending their income on their performance in chess tournaments, losing huge amounts of money from mistakes they make in their critical games, vote for CON. On the other hand, if you as a reader, believe a chess coach should teach their student to simply appreciate the game, where they have much more paths in their lives, take the opportunity to have a higher-salary job, not that much stress in lives that could be damaging to their health, observe the beauty of well-played chess games etc. it is clear that you should vote for PRO. Remember that the group of chess players this debate revolves around are those who are good enough to make enough money to live on. Chess player: A person who plays chess tournamets for money, fame, sponsorships etc. Therefore all our arguments must be directly related to those types of chess players. The resolution remains affirmed. References: 1. http://calnewport.com... 2. http://www.chess.com... 3. http://debate.org... 4. http://www-03.ibm.com...	PRO	66
66	S1f6a3f53-A23800886	Chess is highly popular and should be represented	Chess is among the sports with the greatest number of federations and of active participants worldwide.12 Its large fan base, however, is completely unrepresented in the world’s largest sports competition. Chess, furthermore, is highly viewer friendly, so its popularity would only flourish from its representation. It is possible to broadcast any game online, for all to watch at home. Games also often feature high commentary action explaining and analysing the players’ strategies, to make them approachable and exciting to the public. Furthermore, it could take the shape of a team sport in the Olympics, leaving greater space for tactics and discouraging draws, once again making it more appealing for a broad audience. [12] “FIDE – World Chess Federation”, FIDE, 8 April 2009. http://www.fide.com/fide.html	PRO	67
67	Sc367a7db-A2d063dd6	There is an Ideal Opening Move in Chess	"Resolved: There is an ideal opening move in chess. Chess is this game: http://en.wikipedia.org... An opening move is the first move made by either Black or White. A move is considered ""ideal"" if it enables the player to guarantee a tie or a win. Obvious examples of ""ideal"" moves are those that lead to forced mates or those that stalemate the game. The burden of proof is on Pro is to show that an ideal opening move exists."	PRO	68
68	S847f0140-Af8407faf	Chess is not need in Schools	As a person who's worked with with students, they can pick up the game and learn it. Students minds are sponges, so they can learn stuff pretty quickly. Even a 4 year old can learn the game. There are a bunch of other board games that can teach life, but chess is a game that teaches the most, such as: planning ahead, learning consequences, being respectful, showing good sportsmanship, etc. Chess also helps with math studies since it deals with algorithms, graphing, and probability.	CON	69
69	S568685ae-Adceccda2	Chess is a game of luck	"I agree with the statement ""chess is a game of luck"" and will give reasons why I think this, while Con will argue why chess is a game of skill Definitions Game of skill: A game where the outcome is determined mainly by mental or physical skill, rather than by chance. Game of luck: Games of chance may have some skill element to it, however, chance plays a greater role in determining the outcome than skill. Good luck"	PRO	70
70	Scb3acdd6-A125ab8e0	Does Chess Promotes Racism	"My argument: International Chess do not promote racial discrimination -White and black are two inverted basic colors. They can be used to describe Taoism in Chinese (An ancient religious tradition that describes the evil and the good). -The fact that this is called the ""International Chess"". Do you believe that black and white describes racism around the world? Is there racism in Asia that includes the color black and white?"	PRO	71
71	S568685ae-Af899bd95	Chess is a game of luck	"A good move by Con. Intro First let me explain what made me begin thinking that Chess is a game of luck. When I used to play Tron Evolution (xbox 360 game) I found that once I became familiar with the game having made ~10,000 virtual kills (the point where the game began to get boring) I could easily beat newbies. However what really surprised me was that I was just as good as Dark Angel - a player who had ~2 million virtual kills. He had way more losses than me too. Basically he was 200 times more experienced, yet I was able to beat him half of the time! This of course can be explained by ""an ability curve"" where it takes a short amount of time to improve at first but later on it gets harder and harder to get just a bit better. It's why if I were to play against a professional chess player right now I'd more than likely lose 99.99% of the time. Skill is no doubt involved in Chess. However it is possible to read about Chess i.e. become familiar with the game before playing, this can allow your level of skill to be similar to the best human players making it very difficult to distinguish who the better player is. Anyone serious about a game will do their homework. Human factor In darts (a game of skill), two players can seem identical for the most part, the match is played over a fixed number of games known as legs so the winner of the ""whole game"" can be determined through skill. Although Chess and darts are both turn based games, Chess is more like Tron because every decision made is based entirely upon someone else's. Humans are well known to be unpredictable. Con may argue that in this case players require more skill when if anything players require more luck. If you are competing in a championship and win more games than other players you may conclude you are more skilled, but if you add new players to the arena who have studied moves you haven't but which the others have you may no longer be the champion, even if you have more overall knowledge and deserve to win. Who you play is important. Fairness Many end game scenarios (involving 7 pieces or less left) have been believed by expert chess players to be unwinnable and players normally agree the match is tied, but a computer might prove that checkmate can be forced in perhaps as many as 500 moves. Should a computer tell you when you have won before you know? Or should players continue playing until the other person is exhausted? I'm not sure exactly what rule applies with ties. There doesn't seem to be a fair rule though for this situation, if both players must agree to tie it means a person who wants to win by exhausting the other can. Is that fair? They would still win by having a greater concentration and focus i.e. mental ability, or do you think a wider range of metal ability should be tested? A game of pure skill requires fair rules. Final argument Chess gives players an illusion of control despite there being complex rules; a player who takes many pieces may inadvertently give their opponent an unforeseeable advantage. Thanks for reading, I look forward to your arguement"	PRO	72
72	S1f6a3f53-A8e7f7188	Chess cannot ensure fair play	Even if we were to accept all other reasons for including chess in the Olympic Games, it is actually not implementable. The Olympics have strict regulations against any form of cheating in their sports14, and have thus required chess competitions to be subject to drug tests before they can be considered. However, cheating in chess goes far beyond doping. There have been abundant chess scandals where players used computer programmes to aid them throughout the game. As technology develops, it is likely that these will become even harder to detect. Furthermore, another form of cheating that is impossible to prevent is collusion. Players can meet beforehand and agree to draw games for their mutual advantage15. Both of these kinds of cheating are impossible to regulate, and thus chess cannot compatible with the Olympics’ zero-tolerance regulations. [14] “Factsheet: The fight against doping and promotion of athletes’ health”, International Olympic Committee. January 2013. http://www.olympic.org/Documents/Reference_documents_Factsheets/Fight_against_doping.pdf [15] Everding, Gerry. “Cheating in world chess championships is nothing new, study suggests”, Newsroom, Washington University in St. Louis, 9 October 2006. http://news.wustl.edu/news/Pages/7935.aspx	PRO	73
73	Sb797e0ae-A393d33da	Chess is the best board game	"﻿ REBUTTALS “…which is more of a negative because risk is a great producer of adrenaline.” There is risk involved in Chess. Playing aggressively is filled with danger. “…Furthermore monopoly does encourage skill: the skill of knowing when and what to buy and the skill of effective trading (communication)…” Of course there is SOME skill to Monopoly (it’s not chutes and ladders after all), but the large amount of chance is my key point. Do you disagree that even the best laid plans can be demolished by a bit of bad luck in Monopoly? “Whoever gets houses on the most expensive properties almost inevitably wins."" This is laughably untrue. The person who gets all squares of one particular color is more likely to win but first you have to pay for the hotels and there's a good chance that there will be a second person with the same fortune and skill.” And how does one put houses on a property? By getting all the squares of one particular colour. “How can you explain the rules in a unheard language ? Furthermore, it takes effort for one to get used to it ; most young people aren't willing since they've video games.” I concede that it would be difficult (though not impossible) to teach someone chess if they didn’t speak the same language. However, it would be impossible to teach someone to play Monopoly if they didn’t speak English. As for the video games point, it equally applies to Monopoly. “If you want a quick game then put a time limit. After the time limit is up the person with most money wins (property counted).” How quick a game? I can’t see the game taking less than half-an-hour. What could you achieve, even playing high-speed, in 10 minutes in Monopoly? A complete game of chess can easily be played in that time. My opponent compared Monopoly to Poker. This is very inaccurate. The ‘skill’ elements of Poker involve bluff and reading your opponents. How do these elements apply to Monopoly? “...one must adapt to the situation they're in and make the best of it.” I think this applies far more to Chess than Monopoly. You can’t adapt yourself to a situation when you’re restricted to the roll of the dice. “And even more for him to get used to it. Chances are the ten year old will get bored and choose a game with more people and a game which produces more adrenalin. The game is monopoly !” In our age of online gaming, I can’t see children playing Monopoly for ‘adrenalin’. However, the appeal of chess is strategy. Starcraft 2 wishes it was as perfectly balanced as chess. “Anyhow, this is a positive. You see even bad players have a chance to win and even good players take chances. Moreover, this is rather uncommon but common enough for my opponent to mention h"	PRO	74
74	Sc367a7db-A5251e200	There is an Ideal Opening Move in Chess	"Introduction: Con has conceded my first theorem. I will take this to be conceded for the remainder of the debate, since were Con to challenge it later, his arguments would contradict one another. Con's argument mainly concerns theorem two. I will show that Con misunderstands theorem two and its associated lemmas and takes them to mean something very strong, but only a weak interpretation is required for my proof. Analysis of the Resolution: There are two critical words in the definitions whose meaning I think was very clear, but which I did not discuss previously: ""A move is considered ""ideal"" if it enables the player to guarantee a tie or a win."" The move must enable the player to guarantee a tie or a win. If the player, due to human error, does not capitalize on this opportunity, that does not matter. Presumably an ideal opening move has been made and yielded a loss countless times in the history of the game of chess. ""The burden of proof is on Pro is to show that an ideal opening move exists."" The move must exist in the game. It is not necessary that anyone be able to determine what it is. 1. There is no chance in chess. Con confuses chance in human behavior with chance in the game. While a human being can play a blunder, the blunder was always the purely deterministic result of an intentional move that turned out to be wrong. There is only chance in the game itself if the randomness built into the rules of the game. When a player rolls in Monopoly, he or she has no idea what the result will be. When the same person moves a rook to B2 in chess, they is certainty that the rook will end up at B2. Thus there is no chance in chess. If it is any easier, imagine that we are at a computer chess championship and the rate of hardware errors for the computers is negligible. But I am really talking about chess in an abstract mathematical sense, since chess as a game is itself an abstract concept. 2. In chess, both players can see everything relevant to the game on the board before their eyes; there are no hidden variables. Con makes the same mistake as above. Humans might fail to notice something on the board, but I am not arguing that humans recognize everything on the board. I'm just arguing that it's there. That's all that's necessary for an ideal move to exist. In Stratego, there can't be a perfect move because the rules of the game forbid the player from having the information necessary to determine if the move is perfect in principle. A perfect move would be the result of luck and could not be guaranteed. 3. The player can also guarantee that a move will lead to the desired position because there is no chance. Same error as above, though this one is a bit of a stretch. A normal human being will not fail to move a piece to the correct position when making a move. 4. With each move, the number of accessible game states is reduced. I didn't say immediately accessible game states. I mean all possible future positions. This number necessarily must go down at least by the cardinality of the set of board states, because at turn n the maximum number of accessible states if all moves are legal is (1500 - n)(|{Board States}|) and at turn n + 1 it is (1500 - (n + 1))(|{Board States}|). The number of states immediately legally accessible can range from 0 to 218 and goes up and down throughout the game. Con also said that the same state can be accessible from different paths. The proof gets more difficult to explain if we take this into account (because divergent branches can meet back up) but I don't see how it's relevant to the result. We might as well just allow branches to have redundant game states. This lemma might not be essential anyway. 5. White can try tracing every path down the tree. If any path leads to a game state in which it is Black's turn and Black has an ideal move, that path is abandoned and a new path is attempted.... If such a tree exists, the resolution is true. I am totally lost on how this tree doesn't exist. It demonstrably does. The tree I describe is nothing more than a way of arranging the game states described in Theorem 1 based on which ones are legally accessible from one another by what series of moves. Just because a human would fail to comprehend the whole thing doesn't mean it can't exist. This is like saying pi isn't a real number because no human can fully comprehend it. Con is effectively arguing based on the size of the tree, but that is of no relevance in principle. He also says preposterous things like, ""[T]he randomness of the game is so large that there is no single move that guarantees winning or tying a game of chess,"" which is just silly because it is obviously possible to have a checkmate-in-one scenario. 6. Any game that is basically finite can eventually be solved by looking at all the possibilities. Con's chief objection to this is that, ""Chess is limited in the number of turns you have, like tic-tac-toe, but the number of MOVES you can make increases and then decreases through the game, whereas tic-tac-toe only decreases."" I fail to see the relevance of this. Imagine a tree for tic-tac-toe: it starts out bushy at the bottom and gets sparser as you reach the highest branches. Now imagine a tree for chess: it gets get thicker or sparser in a seemingly random pattern as it goes to toward the top. The significant similarity is that both trees end. They are finite. You could always start at the trunk and trace your way to the tip of each twig. If two people were playing a game, taking turns determining which way to go up the branch, and the winner was the one who moved last, there would always be a perfect strategy for both trees. The structure of the trees would not matter (much of my argument was intended to show that the topological structure of the game does not matter). Con goes on to seemingly deny that ideal play in tic-tac-toe is possible. There is a perfect algorithm for playing tic-tac-toe: http://en.wikipedia.org... The fact that a human may fail to play correctly, is, again, irrelevant to whether or not an ideal move exists. It does, and in the case of tic-tac-toe it can be found by consulting the list. Con's 8 Points: 1) There are no odds in chess. A player does not have a certain probability of winning from a certain position as he might have in Yatzhee. Con is confusing our ability to guess at who will win with probabilistic features of the game. 2) The move only has to enable him to guarantee victory, not assure that he will. See above. 3) This is plainly false. Chess has forced mates. No matter what the defending player does in a forced mate scenario, he loses. 4) Con's whole argument rests on this ill-defined notion of ""imperfection"" and ""mistakes."" This is, honestly, an unsophisticated way of looking at the game. ""Players"" and ""opponents"" are really just a heuristic for thinking about what is essentially a purely mathematical structure. 5) This is irrelevant, see above. 6) See 4) 7) See 1) 8) (sic) This is an obvious misunderstanding. If you are in a ""mate-in-two"" scenario, the first move is just as essential as the mating move. This is true for forced mates of any sequence. If you fail to make the first move properly, you've blown the whole sequence. I'm arguing that the whole game is like that. Conclusion: Con seems not to believe that any game can be solved. In his world, there can be no perfect play for player two in the game ""Who can name the highest number?"" because if I am player one and say ""62"" he might say ""55."" That doesn't change the fact that ""if your opponent said n, say n+1"" is a perfect strategy for player two. Chess likewise has a perfect strategy independent of whether we can determine it. Con's other crucial error is to understand games in the unsophisticated sense of real events. The mature, proper understanding of a game is independent of actual instances of its being played. A real game of chess might not be deterministic, but chess is. This is a crucial distinction that has been lost on Con."	PRO	75
75	S1f6a3f53-A5d204cd8	Chess is highly popular and should be represented	Chess is not as appealing to an ignorant observer as other sports, by virtue of not being physical. Most people can relate to the impressive nature of Olympic gymnastics or a goal-scoring back-flip, even without knowing the rules or the complex strategies involved. This is not the case for chess: it requires a more patient and informed audience. Even if it is viewer friendly for its strong fan base, it is unlikely to gather more support in the Olympics, where many other more established sports are also at their most available.	CON	76
76	S1329642e-Adc00e73	Chess, with additional tournament rules, should be an Olympic sport.	"I thank Sherlock for starting this debate and look forward to giving it my all. I would like to make the assumption that we are taking about making chess an Olympic event in the near future (like for the 2012, 2014, or 2016 games). And so my argument will not be that Chess should never ever ever be an Olympic event, but that chess as it is now should not be part of the current Olympic environment. What should and should not be an Olympic sport? That is a question that the IOC (International Olympic Committee) must ask itself every year. They also have the task of saying which sports make the cut as ""Olympic Sports."" [1] Because there are so many sports around the world, the Olympics cannot logistically do them all. So it has to ""pick and choose"" the ones that will be represented. The Olympic Games do not have a strict set of guidelines (like only the 40 most popular sports in the world, or if the sport has X people), but rather each sport is chosen on case by case basis. This gives the committee the flexibility to add and remove events without having to change their rules. The down side to this is that it means that many decisions may not make total sense. We can see from my opponent's link [2], that the committee does say yes to some and no to others that seem like they are similar sports. So it is far to say that the IOC does not hold ""precedence"" as justification for any sport (the ""you let them in, so you should let me in"" argument). The IOC has also stated that ""mind games"" are not for the Olympics. This basically means that the IOC will not accept anything that is not a physical activity. Even though Kirsan Ilyumzhinov said that curling is chess on ice, however curling does require a physical skill to do (precision and accuracy). My opponent does list a set of rules which makes the game of chess more physically demanding, however those rules don't actually make the game of chess require physical exertion or skill as the ability to sit through a game of chess is hardly a physical task. And adding physical tasks to chess, just to try to get it in, makes the ""physical version of chess"" a different game then the ""standard version"" (which I will address as P-chess and S-chess) and not popular enough to qualify, since all the popularity is still with P-chess and will be for a long time. [1] http://en.wikipedia.org... [2] http://www.time.com..."	CON	77
77	Sc367a7db-A19461ffa	There is an Ideal Opening Move in Chess	"""Con has conceded my first theorem. I will take this to be conceded for the remainder of the debate"" I AGREED with the theorem, there is a difference ============================================================================ Wording of Resolution: ""The move must enable the player to guarantee a tie or a win. If the player, due to human error, does not capitalize on this opportunity, that does not matter"" If a move only enables a player to win or tie, then it still does not determine once and for all what the final outcome will be. It increases your odds of winning, but it doesnt guarantee the desired result because what determines a win, a tie, or a loss are the moves that come AFTER an initial move. For a move to be an ""ideal"" move it must guarantee victory or a tie, it can't just enable it because then that leaves the move open to compromise, being countered, and not yield the desired result. ""an ideal opening move has been made and yielded a loss countless times in the history of the game of chess."" Then the ""ideal"" move does not guarantee victory or a tie. It holds little significance at all since the ""ideal"" move can be canceled out both by human error from you and from a counter measure from the opponent. ""The move must exist in the game. It is not necessary that anyone be able to determine what it is."" Im not asking you to determine what it is. Im only asking how an ideal move can exist when so much of the game is based on the mistakes made by you and your opponent by not recognizing certain factors over the course of the game. After that then I ask how there could be an ideal OPENING move since what determines if someone wins or loses is determined by all the subsequent moves by you along with the counter measures by the opponent. ============================================================================ Chance in Chess ""Con confuses chance in human behavior with chance in the game. While a human being can play a blunder, the blunder was always the purely deterministic result of an intentional move that turned out to be wrong"" The game is controlled by people though, if someone makes an ill-advised move it is ill advised not because the human did it randomly, but because he did not take into account all of the information available to him when he made his move because the player overlooked a variable. Something that you said was impossible "" In chess, both players can see everything relevant to the game on the board before their eyes; there are no hidden variables"" Two seconds later... ""Humans might fail to notice something on the board, but I am not arguing that humans recognize everything on the board. I'm just arguing that it's there. That's all that's necessary for an ideal move to exist."" There exists the possibility for variables to not be taken into account. This could then cause the player make an ill-advised move which would then compromise any move they made before which allegedly guarantees them victory. This means that the move meant to guarantee them victory was lost. Thus there cant be an ideal move since there exists the potential to overlook variables which would forfeit their ""guarantee"" of winning ""A perfect move would be the result of luck and could not be guaranteed."" A perfect move doesnt exist in Chess either because the results of all the moves made after the initial move through the course of the game isnt guaranteed either since Chess is a game of luck and making less mistakes than your opponent. ============================================================================ ""A normal human being will not fail to move a piece to the correct position when making a move."" Oh thats what you meant by desired position, I mistook that to mean something else. I apologize for my goof ============================================================================ Game States ""I didn't say immediately accessible game states. I mean all possible future positions"" Well you should have specified that before -_____- ""The number of states immediately legally accessible can range from 0 to 218 and goes up and down throughout the game"" Yes I agree to this, however the way you worded your arguments before it sounded like you were saying that the number of possible game states can only go down.... Thank you for clarifying ============================================================================ A Chess tree I mistook this argument as the Pro claiming that there exists a path from the beginning of the game to the end that always guarantees a win or a tie. I apologize for my second goof. ============================================================================ Finite-ness of the game of Chess ""Con's chief objection to this is that, ""Chess is limited in the number of turns you have... But the number of MOVES you can make increases and then decreases through the game, whereas tic-tac-toe only decreases."" I fail to see the relevance of this."" In Tic-Tac-Toe you only eliminate available spaces with your pieces to try to get three in a row and you get as many pieces as you need. Pieces cannot be moved, removed, captured, etc. In Chess though the object of the game is much more complex. You start with many pieces then lose them over time, spaces are only temporarily occupied and can be taken, and the amount of moves you have to make at any given turn increases as the game progresses than decreases as pieces are eliminated. Why is this relevant? In Tic Tac Toe an ideal move does exist, and once you make that move your opponent cannot terminate that piece, or The Pro compares Chess to Tic-Tac-Toe by saying that since both trees eventually come to an end, if someone goes through the tree and wins then that implies there is an ideal first move "" If two people were playing a game..... and the winner was the one who moved last, there would always be a perfect strategy for both trees."" Just because one wins a game of chess it doesnt imply that a perfect strategy exists because that particular route to victory that person just took could have been countered in numerous ways, along with any other path to victory that other people have taken. There are thousands and thousands of ways for someone to win a game of chess which means in the game tree there would be thousands and thousands of ways to go through the whole tree and win. This in no way suggests there is an ideal move that guarantees victory. ""the fact that a human may fail to play correctly, is, again, irrelevant to whether or not an ideal move exists"" There is a difference between a move that increases your odds of winning and a move that guarantees victory. If a move were truly ideal then it would still be able to guarantee victory despite human error, and there is no such OPENING move in either Chess or in Tic-Tac-Toe since both games are entirely decided by later moves in the game. Running low on characters, ill jump to the Conclusion. There could very well be an opening move in Chess that increases your odds of winning. But chess is a game of so many different variables that there isnt a single opening move that guarantees victory. Furthermore a move that is only one of many, many other moves needed to enable victory is a far cry from being an ideal opening move that guarantees a victory and a tie. Back to you Pro :)"	CON	78
78	S17224160-Afa8ecf12	chess sucks	Looks like my opponent has lost on time. Wait, can you be clocked if you already lost your King? I don't know, do I really need to extend my arguments? Meh, here's one – if not the – greatest chess games in recorded history: http://www.chessgames.com...	PRO	79
79	Sc4621f00-A218f2fcd	Chess (Full resolution in first round)	"I preface my responses in this round with two observations; one which concerns itself with the nature of my opponent's refutations and one which concerns itself with my opponent's cited sources. First; to refute an argument by referring to a single line of the argument and concluding that the claim is false is a fallacy known as 'cherry-picking'. This can be a dishonest tactic, but is not always malicious in nature; if I can show that my opponent's selective citation and refutation is a cherry picking fallacy then these arguments must be discounted and made voting issues for the Con. Second; My opponent's first source is an answered question from Ask.com and her second source is a forum. Neither of these sources are authoritative academic sources and shouldn't be considered sound empirical evidence. I will not refute my opponent's arguments going directly down the flow. First: My opponent cites my major premise for negation, that ""simply participating in an activity is not good enough, but participants must give their activity everything they have."" This was not an argument unto itself, but was a thesis of negation that I stand behind. The reason chess players and aspiring chess players sacrifice everything they do in order to become Chess players is that they deeply care about the game. To attempt to sway them from this goal due to fear of potential harms is abhorid; it makes the awful assumption that a person is incapable of of accomplishing the goal of becoming a chess player. One does not achieve greatness lest they make sacrifices; and thinking negatively does nothing to assist that goal. When a coach doesn't teach their student with the belief that they are able to become a chess player, they fail them. According to the Mayo Clinic[9], basic positive thinking can do world of good for a person, and this is especially true in regards to something like becoming a Chess Player. [9] http://www.mayoclinic.com... As for the Garry Kasparov argument my opponent Expressly cites Kasparov as an example of one who feels stressed; do not let them back out of this example. Next: My opponent cites my criticism of her reference to Pogonina's article- a quick review of the prior round will show that Pro does indeed suggest that losing a game while being a chess player could bring about intense levels of psychological distress. Given this claim was made after being filtered through three different sources, my prior attack should be accepted. This implication of irreparable psychological damage can be reasonable assumed based on my opponent's provision and analysis of the Garry Kasparov documentary. Furthermore to suggest that IMB had truly utilized human intervention in their chess machine against Garry Kasparov is not only an attack against the legitimacy of Deep Blue in the first place, but it is unfounded and only reassures my prior claim that Kasparov's downfall came as the result of pride. Kasparov couldn't handle the idea that a machine could have matched his ability to play Chess, much less beat him. If IBM had intended to cheat with the use of human intervention, then they would have done so during one the first two games Kasparov played against Deep Blue as well. At this point I would like to introduce a concept known as an 'ad hoc rescue[10]'. This a fallacy which occurs when one redesigns an argument once faced with opposition instead of directly refuting the argument. My opponent has claimed several times throughout this debate that I did not understand her arguments or that her arguments meant to covey a point other than how I interpreted them. This is the case with the high blood pressure argument specifically; Pro claims that she meant the high blood pressure example only as point of reference and stresses the phrase 'prone to' in her refutation. [10] http://www.iep.utm.edu... Next: Violence- If one has a violent personality, they are going to be violent no matter how committed or concerned they are about a given activity[11]. This is the very reason that many psychologist and counselors will tell those in abusive relationships not to return to their partner even if the partner promises that they will reform their actions and not act in such a manner. Teaching a person to simply appreciate the game instead of honing them to be a competitive Chess player will not curb these violent tendencies if the person is already prone to violence. [11] http://www.stopfamilyviolence.org... To call my argument here unreasonable is to reject it without fully addressing it. Next: Concerning my opponent's attack on my refutation of her second argument, as I've shown in the prior round, hiring a Chess Coach is not a cheap endeavor [6][7][8], so if one chooses to hire a coach it is highly likely that they already appreciate the game. They care about the activity and they want to improve, to pay a coach that much money for them to only teach the student something they already know is abhorred and is not preferable to a coach grooming a student to be a Chess Player. Furthermore it must be expressly noted that my opponent drops my analysis that competition is an art as well as Chess. This argument is a perfect example of my opponent cherry-picking her refutations; she takes a transitory line of analysis and makes it the make point of the refutation all the while dropping the argument of competition. Next: Coach's Responsibility- Furthermore, simply because a coach trains their students with the intention of them becoming Chess Players does not mean that they must become Chess Players. In the same way a Statistics professor would teach her students statistics in such a way as to prepare them high level math courses, the students are not obligated to takes these higher level math classes. They will likely appreciate the math they learned in that class much more as the result of having been taught in such a way, but still they are not obligated to take high level classes. In the same way a Chess coach should train his students with the intention of them becoming Chess Players whether they do or do not become Chess Players. We've already established that for some-one to employ a coach they must already care about and appreciate the game, so then if the coach does not provide the student with anything new he has failed his students. Next: Competitive Chess is not suited for everyone- From my opponent's sixth source in her second round[12] ""In 1927, three Russian psychologists (Djakow, Petrowski and Rudik) studied eight of the best grandmasters of the time. The players included Emanuel Lasker, Richard Reti, Savielly Tartakower, Carlos Torre, Peter Romanovsky, Ernst Gurenfeld, and Rudolf Spielmann. They did not find any differences with a control sample on general intelligence or visuo-spatial memory, with the exception of memory tasks where the material to be recalled was closely related to chess. After a century of investigation, not a single study with adult chess players has managed to establish a link between chess skill and intelligence. Intellect had little predictive power among strong chess players."" [12] http://www.chess.com... Despite what my opponent argues here, the precedent of her evidence concludes that anyone can become a great Chess Player if they dedicate enough time and energy to it. Back to you Famer!"	CON	80
80	S1f6a3f53-Ae70e9ec7	introduce Chess at the Olympics	Chess lacks the necessary physical activity	CON	81
81	S1f6a3f53-A185ba56a	introduce Chess at the Olympics	Chess cannot ensure fair play	CON	82
82	S1f6a3f53-Af4dfcd92	introduce Chess at the Olympics	Chess ought to qualify as an Olympic sport	PRO	83
83	S1f6a3f53-Ae08bb3e9	introduce Chess at the Olympics	Chess is highly popular and should be represented	PRO	84
84	S568685ae-A9dc0a5e8	Chess is a game of luck	"A solid opening from by the Affirmation First i would like to define a few terms in order to clarify a few things. skill - the ability to do something that comes from training, experience, or practice luck - the things that happen to a person because of chance : the accidental way things happen without being planned chance - the possibility that something will happen probability - a measure of how often a particular event will happen if something (such as tossing a coin) is done repeatedly Now, if we are to use these definitions we can understand that chess is in fact a game of skill. If chess were in fact a game of luck, there would be a defined ratio of win to loss of exactly one - half. Now, as we have people who we classify as 'masters', these are people who are statically impossible in a game that centered on nothing but luck. As I believe the the Pro would like to counter this point, i shall halt my refutation until the affirmation has a chance. i also would like to request the Affirmation to explain this statement from their argument, ""Skill is no doubt involved in Chess"". Thank you, and good luck pro! Sources http://www.merriam-webster.com..."	CON	85
85	S568685ae-A90769226	Chess is a game of luck	"Ah, now i understand where your arguments come from. To the inexperienced chess player, much of the game is considered luck, and it is based on the phenomenon known as hope chess. This is where the players hope for their opponents to mess up so they may win by sheer luck. Now on the the points made by the affirmation, "" Often, masters will have a ""feeling"" about a position and follow this. "" This is absolutely correct. and this is known as intuition, which is developed by skill, that is, when masters play for such a long time, they tend to find and use patterns, and when they go with a gut feeling, that is merely because they encountered a similar scenario previously and they therefore knew how to deal with it. If it helps think of a game of chess like a multiple choice math test with 20 questions. While you may be lucky with a guess, it is in no way a substitute for skill and understanding. I would like to thank the affirmation for providing such strong arguments, and I would also like to urge the Voters to vote in favor of whichever side they felt performed better. Thank you!"	CON	86
86	S1329642e-A7064bb6d	Chess, with additional tournament rules, should be an Olympic sport.	"I thank my opponent for accepting this debate and his arguments. I will conclude in this round and offer no new arguments. Chess does have a physical aspect and I grant that it would be on the low end for Olympic sports, but it is still present. The rules I applied would test competitors in areas of mental fortitude and stamina as the competitors must do more than sit at the board for several hours. The players would have to maintain their chess abilities with the onset of exhaustion bound to occur by playing at the highest levels of competition twice daily. Having been in chess tournaments, I have seen exhaustion destroy players in later rounds. I have shown chess has a physical aspect and showed how the sport fits with all the criteria set by the OIC mission statement. In addition, the sport is easy to accommodate and is in need of a consistent ruling body so as to help promote chess worldwide in a showcase with other sports. For the above mentioned reasons, the OIC should adopt the sport of Chess for the 2012 or 2016 Summer Olympics. Thank you, Sherlockmethod P.S. Just for fun, I mentioned the ""Game of the Century"" when discussing this topic. Here is the game. http://en.wikipedia.org...(chess) Fischer was a kid when he played this one and from the start he offered material to Byrne. Several sacrificial offers were rejected by the experienced player, but on move 17, Fischer makes an offer to big to refuse, his queen. Byrne takes the queen but Bobby takes us on one of the most memorable mating sequences in chess. The white king is marched down the board to mate while his queen sits by and watches the story unfold. Great game."	PRO	87
87	S1f6a3f53-Ad96542c0	introduce Chess at the Olympics	Introducing chess would preserve the spirit of the ancient Olympic Games	PRO	88
88	S1f6a3f53-A68b984cc	introduce Chess at the Olympics	Chess is proven to have great cognitive benefits: increasing its support is objectively good	PRO	89
89	Sc4621e65-Aaafe5f70	Chess (Full resolution in first round)	"""My opponent's entire resolution seems have fallen one one, purely opinion-based, concept that ""If you don't love something, there's no point in mastering it."" Now, I am going to tear her cute little adorable baby of an argument and then shall reinstate everything that I said (which will be awfully easy considering her single comeback to absolutely all that I said was ""If you don't love something, there is no point mastering it."""" I am rather offended by CON's attitude towards me during this debate. Second thing to note of, my arguments are fact-based arguments, supported with references provided by experts in their fields, unlike my opponent, who's arguments are entirely opinion-based supported by his own little quotes. My so-called ""single comeback"" of ""If you don't love something, there is not point mastering it"" was, as I believe, suffice for the only argument provided by my opposition. ""To make a beast at chess, a coach needn't give two sh*ts about their student's love for the game. They must raise the number one chess player, not the number one chess fan. Coaching isn't a fairy-tale and only a few of the human race qualify to be professional coaches at anything BECAUSE it requires brutal harshness."" The above short paragraph is the only argument presented by the opposition that is directly related to the topic of the resolution. Readers, please do not become distracted by his previous biffle and baffle on how you can only master something before you find your love to that thing. It is evident that all he has been able to say to support his resolution are the following two things: 1. As a coach, you must care about the student's love for the game. They must make them the number one chess player, not the number one chess fan. 2. You must become good at something before you can love it. My responses to these two and only arguments are simple: The first argument proposed by CON is majorly flawed and therefore simply refutable. If a chess coach doesn't care about his/her student's feelings to the game, only focussed on forcing them to improve in their ability to play the game, chances are, the student will end up holding a grudge to both his/her coach and the game itself. With that, the student (if they at least have normal parents) will, with approval from their parents, quit being coached in chess. The second argument by CON is, first off, not directly related to the topic, making it a considerably weak argument. I have already refuted that argument by saying ""If you do not love the game, there is not point in mastering it"" as I believe that is sufficient. However, I made add a little more to that argument considering I have the chance. Would you have any potential to succeed if you did not have the passion in the game? Compare a chess geek to a regular person on the street. Which person would have more potential to succeed in chess? I'm getting off topic as well now... Back to the point: Things to take note of: - Most of my arguments provided in R2 have been CONCEDED. As the last round is for refutations, defence and conclusion, CON still has chances of winning this debate if he successfully refutes them in the final round. - All of my opposition's arguments have been based on weak opinions specifically made for this debate. - The quotes provided by my opponent are his OWN quotes. Chances are, made just for this debate. - CON has drifted off topic during this debate a fair few times. Conclusion: My opponent still needs to refute my arguments based on psychological stress experienced by chess players and the violence they may be subjected to. I will allow the readers to decide on the results of this debate at the very end."	PRO	90
90	S9f7eedfb-A301e2924	Chess should not be an Olympic sport	Chess requires no physical activity so it can not be classified as an Olympic Sport.	CON	91
91	S1329642e-A2a7205d3	Chess, with additional tournament rules, should be an Olympic sport.	"While there is a ""physical"" aspect to chess (even which my opponent agrees ""I grant that it would be on the low end for Olympic sports, but it is still present."") there has been nothing shown that chess would need anything more then a basic stamina. That a player with with excellent stamina would have any advantage over a player with decent stamina. The true game lies within the players mental abilities and in all most every match. While chess is a great game and I am proud to be a co-founder of the chess team at my high school (which became #2 in the state in our 4th year, after I had graduated) and have the utmost respect for it. I must acknowledge that the game is not one for the Olympics, as much Beethoven doesn't belong in the Rock and Roll hall of fame, even though his music was truly great. P.S. My personal favorite is the Deep Blue matches."	CON	92
92	S847f0140-A64b0250a	Chess is not need in Schools	Chess is needed in the schools. Its more than just a game, it teaches life skills that students can use.	CON	93
93	S60532011-A3e865c18	Chess should be an Olympic event.	I will be taking the stance that chess should not be an Olympic event. Good luck to us both!	CON	94
94	S568685ae-Abe4fab29	Chess is a game of luck	As a chess player, i accept the debate, and i shall allow pro to go first. Good Luck.	CON	95
95	S1979ed8c-A4bbd4e05	Chess is a sport	I apologize for not supplying a source in my previous argument. http://dictionary.reference.com... http://dictionary.reference.com... Now let's look at the game itself. chess1 [ches] Show IPA noun a game played by two persons, each with 16 pieces, on a chessboard. Game 3. a competitive activity involving skill, chance, or endurance on the part of two or more persons who play according to a set of rules, usually for their own amusement or for that of spectators. As you can see, chess is a game, not a sport. http://dictionary.reference.com... http://dictionary.reference.com...	CON	96
96	Sc4621f00-A98992c9a	Chess (Full resolution in first round)	I thank my opponent for a fantastic round, and I do hope the readers and my opponent have enjoyed it as much as I have. Given that this is the last round I'm not going to continue the clash (since my opponent would have not chance to respond to it), but instead I'm going to summarize the crucial issues of the debate and show why you should vote for the Con First; Fallacies- My opponent admits to committing the fallacy of Ad Hoc Rescue, or at the least she does not deny committing such a fallacy. This is a huge voting issue as fallacies are not legitimate arguments, so at the point that an argument is shown to be a fallacy an opponent of that argument is under no burden to refute the argument. The fact that it is a fallacy illegitimatizes the argument at a basic level; consider the following logical syllogism as an example Person A: Grass dies. Men also die. Therefore men are grass. Person B: My opponent's argument is a fallacy, as the major premise and minor premise do not support the conclusion. Person A: So you don't deny that men are grass? Person B: I don't need to refute the argument because it's a flawed argument. This is fundamentally the same for the arguments my opponent provides; because they are fallacies I don't have to refute them. They refute themselves. Second; Sources- Here's where some analysis on the cherry-picking comes in; my opponent fails to provide any manner of compelling sources for her income argument until the last round. Instead in the rounds where clash is available to happen she cites forums and the such for these numbers; this is illegitimate as these speeches were reserved by opponent to be rebuttal speeches. At the point an argument gains a different warrant than was originally advocated, it is a new argument. Not to mention a perfect example of ad hoc rescue, instead defending the logic and warrants employed in prior rounds my opponent ditches them in favor of new warrants. Now I am under no burden to answer these new arguments, but a simple answer (I'm talking about the income of chess players here) is that 50,000 is a decent income[13]. [13] http://www.convertunits.com... Third; More Cherry-Picking Now the basic assertion to my opponent cherry-picking fallacy was not in her sources, but in her refutations of my arguments. I argue that in refuting my own arguments my opponent fails to address my arguments in their given context, but instead cherry-picks certain lines that she can easily defend. This goes unanswered, and so we see that my opponent's refutations must be rejected So what do these three things mean? It means that my opponent has no arguments in her favor to warrant a vote for the Pro. When Pro commits the cherry-picking fallacy and fails to defend herself, all attacks on the Con must be dropped. If the attacks are fallacies and do not refute my arguments in their given context, then they are not legitimate refutations. When Pro commits the Ad Hoc rescue fallacy and fails to defend herself, she drops her prior arguments and their warrants in favor of new arguments and new warrants. So then there is nothing on the flow which would warrant a vote for the Pro. Fourth; the art of competition is not addressed In round two I show that while the game of chess in and of itself is an art competition is an art as well; this argument is never answered an it was perhaps the biggest argument of the Con. Except perhaps indirectly from her competitive chess argument which she outright drops in the final round. So in summary the argument for competition is as follows- We both agree that the student will appreciate the game of chess; so either way we get the benefit of the art of the game of chess. When a chess coach teaches their students to become chess players, they also gain the benefit of learning the art of competition; this is not the case when a coach teaches his student only to appreciate the game. So when a coach fails to teach their student to become a chess player he fails his students as they do not come to appreciate the art of competition. Fifth; Chess Coaches are expensive; they should the bill I show this in my round two, but Pro fails to respond to the argument (unless by inference of her income argument, which I'll cover in a moment). Instead Pro claims that the coaches do not fail their student if they teach them to appreciate the game; the problem with this refutation is that they students already appreciate the game. As I've said prior, for a student to shell out the necessary cash to pay for a Chess coach they're going to have to appreciate the game. So for them to spend this much money solely for the coach to teach them something they already know is for the coach to fail the student; as a parallel, if an man were to hire a personal trainer to help them get in better shape, but the personal trainer instead taught the man to appreciate a healthy lifestyle, then the personal trainer would have failed the man as he already appreciates a healthy life style. If he did not he wouldn't have hired the personal trainer in the first place. Keep this analogy in mind as I will employ it again in a moment Before that, in the case that the income argument was meant as a refutation to the expense of hiring a chess coach, you need to reject it for the following reasons; First; A Chess Player-Chess Coach's income doesn't negate that s/he cost a lot of money Secondl It is my opponent's responsibility to make a connection here. It is not the job of the judges to make the link by inference of their own merit. and, Third; I show that 50,000 to 70,000 dollars a year is a decent amount of money (which my opponent is unfortunately unable to respond to since she failed to make this argument until round 4) Finally; Teaching a student a certain way doesn't mean they'll turn out a certain way I spoke on this argument in round three; just because a chess coach teaches their students to become a chess player does not mean that the student will become a chess player. When I took statistics last semester my professor taught the class as thought I were planning to pursue a career where statistics would be utilized. This was a huge benefit to me as I learned the material on more than a topical level and I am able to use that knowledge in other areas of my life -- as for my career, I don't plan on attaining any career which would require the regular use of statistics; I plan to be a debate coach instead. Once more employing the example of a man and his personal trainer; for the personal trainer to train the man in such a way as to become an athlete doesn't obligate the man to become an athlete. He already appreciates his health which is why he hired the coach in the first place, but with the coach training him to perform at a level beyond his desires he gains further benefit aside from the appreciate of his health. The same is true with Chess. The student who hires the coach already appreciates the game; but they lack sophisticated skills. These are skills they want to learn and for the coach to deprive them of these skills is for him to fail his student. He provides these skills by training his students to become Chess Players, regardless of their actual intention to become a chess player. I thank my opponent once again for a good debate, and I urge a vote for the Con!	CON	97
97	S765eba45-Ae7c1d17c	Go is an overall superior game than Chess.	"Thank you, DakotaKrafick, for this important debate. I truly appreciate your passion for Go, and I hope that after this debate your appreciation of Chess can grow to match it. Per my opponent's terms, I will not offer rebuttals or responses to his case until the next Round. In this Round, I will only present my case for the superiority of Chess as opposed to Go. Chess is far more dynamic In Go, once a stone is placed it cannot move, it is static. In Chess, the pieces are in constant flux, maneuvering to and fro as they attempt to complete objectives. Conceptually, Chess combines the spatial and temporal, whereas Go is only spatial. The constantly shifting style of Chess is more rewarding, and carries greater aesthetic possibilities. What's more, each piece carries a different function, giving the game an inherent sense of complexity: the potential choreography of differently functioning pieces generates, in and of itself, artistic possibilities lacking in Go. This brings me to my next point: Chess is deeper and more complex in a purely strategic sense To think the sole purpose of chess is to checkmate the opposing King is much too reductive and simplistic. Unlike Go, where play is focused entirely around the grabbing of more spaces, in Chess the player's real goal is to create strategic inequalities, or what Jeremy Silman calls ""imbalances."" Some examples include: interplay of minor pieces (bishop vs knight), pressure on the queen-side as opposed to the king-side, superior mobility and space (Chess includes the same concept of territory that the entire game of Go is based on as just one strategic inequality among others), control of a key file or square, a lead in development, the initiative (similar to the concept of sente in Go), differences in pawn structure such as doubled pawns, isolated pawns, pawn chains, etc. The list goes on, but the point is always the same: chess play is about creating, locating, and taking advantage of, imbalances in a position. Contrast the dynamism and strategic complexity of Chess play with Go, where play focuses solely around annexing territories from your opponent. Chess is more tactical, exciting, and fun In Chess, a typical top level game might go like this: you sacrifice a pawn to gain space and activity, use that to attempt taking the center but fail because your opponent uses his extra pawn to retain control, you then reform, sacrifice a bishop, and attack on the queen-side, finally breaking through with your rooks, and immediately transferring the attack to the king's castle. You lose anyway, because inherent in every position is instability -- everything is in flux -- so your opponent mobilizes at the last moment a counter-attack against your king, who is left unprotected because your own attack extended too far. That kind of exciting dynamism, the back-and-forth of tactical blow after tactical blow, is practically non-existent in the game of Go, where games are less explosive and focus on the consolidation of territories instead of brutal all-in attacks. And yet, Chess also offers the slow, purely positional style of Go: extended strategic battles over a single square, building up microscopic advantages until one player's pressure overwhelms the other. Because Chess includes both tactical and positional styles of play, I say Chess is deeper. In Go, players cannot move their stones, which makes games focus solely on static structures. But in Chess, players negotiate between motion and stasis, the relative and the absolute. Conceptually and philosophically, Chess covers a vaster array of possibilities. The importance of each move Because the board is smaller, and the number of potential pieces is limited, each move and sacrifice in Chess is far more important than each move in Go. Typical Go games at the highest level last between 150 and 400 moves, whereas Chess games last between 20 and 60 moves. It is estimated that each Chess move is worth about 7 Go moves. This demonstrates the precision required to play Chess effectively, and the importance, care, and investment that goes into each move. As a result, Go allows players a lot more room for error and passivity, whereas in Chess, each moment of decision-making has a huge strategic and tactical significane in both the short-term and long-term. Psychological warfare A huge aspect of chess is creating threats that aren't true threats, but which nonetheless require the enemy's attention, lest they become true threats. For example, a player may line up a rook on the same file as the enemy's queen, or pin the enemy's knight against his/her king. There may be no immediate threat, but it looks dangerous and has the enemy worrying. Thing is, by reacting to the potential threat, players create new, perhaps real, threats. So in Chess, the strategy is often not to simply outright attack the enemy, but to overwhelm and confuse the enemy through false threats, scattering their forces until they fall apart. Chess is filled with these kinds of psychological tactics. In Go, on the other hand, false threats and decoys of this kind are non-existent. Go players surely get anxious, but the use of psychological tactics itself is not part of the game's repertoire of possibilities. No luck in Chess Chess is completely skill-based. But in Go, there is something known as a ""lucky win,"" even at the top level of play. Players often lose in Go despite having played better than their opponents. Some players have even tried to figure out why luck is so present in Go, doing statistical and game-theoretic analyses on the game. [1] To me, it seems that a purely skill-based game is superior to a game that also includes luck, so I conclude Chess better on this point. Chess is more difficult Go has a 19x19 board and has a larger number of positions. I grant Pro that much. But more squares and possibilities, in and of itself, does not make Go more complex and more difficult. There are so many other factors at play in Chess, the huge number of strategic imbalances, the constant shifting of the pieces and need for re-evaluating positions, the psychological elements, the huge care that must be taken on every move, the tension between all these strategies and the brute facts of tactical attack. Think about it this way: if Go is played on a 9x9 board, which it sometimes is, then Chess is clearly the more complex and difficult game. There is no contest when the number of squares is even: Chess is more difficult and complex. Extend that logic: why not double or triple the number of squares, and you'll have a game twice as complex? Because increasing the number of squares/positions does not make the game any more complex or better than before. Point is, a game's strategic complexity is not determined by quantity of possibilities, but by the qualitative elements inherent to the game. In Go, it is the simplicity of static stones controlling space. In Chess, it is the terrifying complexity of differently functioning pieces in constant flux. It may be an opinion, but Chess clearly beats out Go in terms of complexity and difficulty. Victory Chess presuppses democratic equality of the players, and therefore, a draw is possible. This is essential to a game like Chess and Go, because it is very plausible that the two players play a perfect game, in which case a draw is the correct outcome. But in Go, you cannot draw. Unfortunately, often the win is not convincing. The game is decided by the .5 point advantage granted by Komidashi. It may even be the losing player who made the more impressive plays. Go thus presupposes inequality, and ends up being unfair. Unlike Go, a win in Chess is decisive. You checkmate the King, get checkmated, or draw. Any difference in skill must be proven in Chess, but in Go difference of skill is presupposed. I conclude Chess is fair, Go unfair. Conclusion Chess is deeper, psychological, democratic, fair, and offers greater aesthetic and conceptual possibilities. [1] http://senseis.xmp.net..."	CON	98
98	S847f0140-Ab25c28f2	Chess is not need in Schools	Well let me go ahead and shut down your arguments: Your first argument is saying we should not incorporate chess is because it's too hard, and students won't learn it. -If this is true, then why don't we take out English, and math? Just because a subject is too hard, we need to remove it? If this was the case, we would have no subjects since everyone will have a subject they will struggle in. Your second argument, is why don't we put a more fun and enjoyable game in the curriculum (monopoly, go, etc..)? -The reason we shouldn't put a game like monopoly, is because that game favors heavily in luck, by rolling the dice. Chess is all skill, and requires no luck. It takes skill to find the best move to make checkmate, you don't get lucky that you won.	CON	99
99	S1329642e-Ac768ddf6	Chess, with additional tournament rules, should be an Olympic sport.	"I thank my opponent for his response. After reviewing the contentions, I still support the resolution. My opponent makes the assumption that we are discussing chess as an Olympic sport in the near future and this assumption is correct. I would advocate the sport for the next, or the very latest, two summer Olympics in the future 2012, 2016. Physical Chess vs. Standard Chess My opponent makes a solid argument and one that bears heavily on my Olympic proposal. Am I ruining the game just to get into the Olympics? If I submitted boxing chess then he would be correct, but I am not adding new elements, only exaggerating ones already present and codifying them in the Olympic rules. Currently, Chess tournaments can be grueling for a competitor, but the physical aspect leaves us at the highest level of competition. Top Grand Masters have become the prima donnas of the chess world. Bobby Fischer was one of the worst. Special lighting, time tables, certain types of mineral water, pieces, etc. The physical aspect is lost when all the comforts a player needs are provided. Lower levels of play, such as local and state tournaments, do not succumb to the needs of all involved. The tournaments are usually over shorter time spans so they require one to be physically ready. In addition, physical requirements have hurt prior chess masters. Mikhail Tal was such a person. http://en.wikipedia.org... Many at the time felt if Tal would have taken better care of his physical body he would have been unstoppable. I agree. Speaking of Tal, he was known for a stare that shook his opponents (so was Lasker). Pal Benko once wore sunglasses to avoid his stare. The physical presence was there and was an advantage. The physical elements are there and under these rules, it will play a factor. The Olympic rules I propose bring the physical element back to the highest levels of play. The goal of the sport is still the same – checkmate. If my opponent can show that my new rules bastardize the sport, then I will respectfully concede. I see no need to call this physical chess, just Olympic chess. Much like we have Olympic boxing and professional boxing – they are not the same and yet both maintain the overall aspects of the sport. Olympic chess will be no different. The IOC My opponent is correct that the IOC does have to cap the number of sports and cannot allow all of them in, but their decisions are not arbitrary. They have a mission statement that guides them, and is listed on the wiki my opponent linked. http://en.wikipedia.org... I submit that due to its violence, MMA would not make it as an Olympic sport although it is arguably one of the most physical sports in the world. Also, golf does not make it but mainly because of the burden building an 18 hole course. Countries are having trouble accommodating more and more. How does chess fare here? Very well, I think. The tournament could be held in a ball room or could be played in many local arenas; I see no need to build a stadium to house the event. Civic centers will do just fine and can have ample room for geeks like me to watch and listen to the commentators argue over the validity of Evan's Gambit. This sport is easy to accommodate. How well does supporting chess as an Olympic sport fare with the IOC's mission (edited some out due to space, and my opponent need not refute all. Picking three or so will be fine if he wishes to rebut them): 1.Encourage and support the promotion of ethics in sport as well as education of youth through sport and to dedicate its efforts to ensuring that, in sport, the spirit of fair play prevails and violence is banned; Check. No more penny ante nonsense from the grandmasters, all rules stay the same for all players. 2.Encourage and support the organization, development and coordination of sport and sports competitions; Check. The Olympic committee could setup the outlines for Olympic chess and such tournaments could be held worldwide with the new rules. 3.Cooperate with the competent public or private organizations and authorities in the endeavor to place sport at the service of humanity and thereby to promote peace; Olympic chess is a mixture of mental strength, physical stamina, and no one is killed in the process. No submission holds, or bloody faces. 4.Take action in order to strengthen the unity and to protect the independence of the Olympic Movement; No problems here and chess needs such a movement as politics have taken over the highest levels. 5.Act against any form of discrimination affecting the Olympic Movement; With Olympic chess, all countries can be represented, no problems here. 6.Encourage and support the promotion of women in sport at all levels and in all structures with a view to implementing the principle of equality of men and women; I see no need to separate men/women in Olympic chess as the physical aspects can be outweighed with mental fortitude. Men and women could play together and each would bring different mental/physical traits to the game. 7.Lead the fight against doping in sport; The article listed in Time shows a complete agreement from chess organizers to submit to drug testing for players. 8.Encourage and support measures protecting the health of athletes; Athletes will be given breaks, but part of the competition will be physical stamina. The level needed would be much lower than other sports so I see no issues here. 9.Oppose any political or commercial abuse of sport and athletes; 10.Encourage and support the efforts of sports organizations and public authorities to provide for the social and professional future of athletes; 11.Encourage and support the development of sport for all; 9,10,11: Chess is in bad need for all three and the IOC could help provide the tools. Chess is an ancient sport and one that is still viable today. The IOC could bring it back to its prior standing and encourage new players world wide. Basketball is a great example. 12.Encourage and support initiatives blending sport with culture and education; I can think of no sport that would be better suited to blend culture and education. Chess is life for some and the skills needed translate well in the academic world and can help bridge gaps between cultures. All one needs is a board and the pieces to try. Chess speaks across language barriers and its beauty is seen by all that understand the game. For the above mentioned reasons, and in light of my learned opponent's contentions, chess should be chosen as an Olympic sport by the IOC. This is the one ""mind game"" with the applicable physical aspects to represent the prowess of the human mind in connection with physical stamina. Thank you, Sherlockmethod."	PRO	100
100	Sb797e0ae-A85fd9b92	Chess is the best board game	"""Extend my previous arguments, since they have not yet been addressed."" I have but now Ill do it in a more direct way. ""ARGUMENT ONE: Stimulation"" My opponents arguments are twofold. The first part brags about how ""Chess is completely skill based"" which is more of a negative because risk is a great producer of adrenaline. Furthermore monopoly does encourage skill: the skill of knowing when and what to buy and the skill of effective trading (communication) The second part says that monopoly is stagnant while chess is a ""different games every single time"". First this comment can apply to monopoly too. In monopoly anyone can be the winner and the rules of the game can dramatically change. "" Whoever gets houses on the most expensive properties almost inevitably wins."" This is laughably untrue. The person who gets all squares of one particular color is more likely to win but first you have to pay for the hotels and there's a good chance that there will be a second person with the same fortune and skill. ""ARGUMENT TWO: Language barrier"" How can you explain the rules in a unheard language ? Furthermore, it takes effort for one to get used to it ; most young people aren't willing since they've video games. ""ARGUMENT THREE: Time"" ""One could put time constraints on it, but I fail to see how the will reduce the playing time of the game."" How can it not ? If you want a quick game then put a time limit. After the time limit is up the person with most money wins (property counted). ::Responding to my opponent:: ""As previously mentioned, due to the large amount of ‘chance' involved in Monopoly and the nature of the game, I don't see how it can really be played competitively. "" Monopoly isn't lottery instead it is like poker. Now poker does contain luck but its not entirely luck. Why ? Well, monopoly contains trade which needs communication skills, one has to have a somewhat different strategy every time the rules change and one must adapt to the situation they're in and make the best of it. ""Furthermore, any game can bring out the passion in its players."" However, chess can't be compared. Chess can contain only 2 passionate players while monopoly can have up to 7 people who are striving for the same goal ; the more the merrier. Secondly, chess is abstract while monopoly is easily relatable and even if you're a child you still can imagine that you're a big fat rich greedy guy. ""What exactly makes Monopoly better than Risk or The Game of Life?"" Well what makes chess better than go ? This debate is about chess versus monopoly. ""(Also, is posting Facebook a source? I think not)"" Unless, you want a bloody battle of ad hominems don't make such stupid remarks. ""The exact same thing could be said about Chess, although it might take a ten year old a bit longer to learn it."" And even more for him to get used to it. Chances are the ten year old will get bored and choose a game with more people and a game which produces more adrenalin. The game is monopoly ! ""That's 500 years that the game has remained the same. It doesn't need to change. It's the perfect game."" There's not a lot you can change... ""All of the factors you mentioned don't actually change the game at all"" Yes in fact it does change the game, it changes: the speed, strategy, the length, the communication and etcetera. "" Monopoly is fun, but can quickly become frustrating. One can make all the right moves and all the right decisions and still lose the game."" Bad memories ? Anyhow, this is a positive. You see even bad players have a chance to win and even good players take chances. Moreover, this is rather uncommon but common enough for my opponent to mention hence my points work."	CON	101
101	S765eba45-A30f724c8	Go is an overall superior game than Chess.	Before I begin, I'd like to thank my opponent for this excellent debate. It has covered the games well, and I hope that we have given a greater appreciation of both Chess and Go to our readers. Complexity Pro states: “I am fighting an uphill battle. Not because Chess is, indeed, more complex than Go, but because the audience already knows of Chess' complexity, at least somewhat, and you can never really understand how complex Go is without having played it beyond the level of a beginner.” The fact that Pro is fighting an uphill battle is an argument for the superiority of Chess to Go. It acknowledges the great difficulty inherent to defending Go as opposed to Chess. Pro concedes that “there are far less plausible moves” in Go, as I had argued last Round. Pro’s comparison of 9x9 Go is Chess is irrelevant. 9x9 Go has far less possible positions, strategic or tactical depth, than Chess. Pro argues that, unlike Chess, “in Go, when the battle's over, you have another one just waiting to take its place, until they all finally connect with each other in the end game.” This is an example of a misunderstanding of Chess. In Chess, battles occur over a square, or over a bishop-knight imbalance, or a king-side attack, or acquiring the initiative. When the battle ends, another one emerges because of the new imbalances that emerge. This is why I argued earlier that Chess is temporal whereas Go is spatial. In Chess, because the pieces are constantly in flux, new battles emerge throughout the game as the pieces shift and create new strategic imbalances in the position. The creation of new positions, imbalances, objectives, and battles is endless, as pieces move about the board. In Go, many battles will occur but the quantity is not endless. The board gradually fills up, and once every space has been filled, the game ends. This makes the game spatial, whereas Chess is temporal. This actually makes Chess more complex and deep than Go, since Chess can keep going whereas Go will end once the board is filled up. According to Pro, “there is no greater challenge than 19x19.” Not according to Pro’s logic, however. Pro states that a larger number of possible positions makes a game more complex and difficult. Therefore, Pro contradicts himself by simultaneously stating Go is more complex with a 19x19 board, yet also making the claim that the number of possible positions matters. My argument holds: the number of possible positions beyond a certain threshold quantity does not matter. Chess has more possible positions than atoms in the universe. There is a reason Chess is so well known for its vast number of possibilities. We can say that Chess has more than enough possible positions. The extra possible positions that Go has are irrelevant, when evaluating the game as a game. What is relevant are other factors of complexity, such as conceptual, strategic and tactical depth. Pro states that in Chess, the “opening is always the same; there is no choosing.” That is absolutely false. In chess, opening theory is vast, certainly surpassing that of Go. Different openings have different purposes, and attempt to establish different kinds of strategic and tactical imbalances. Stating the opening is the always the same is a misunderstanding of what the Chess opening is supposed to do, and of the huge variety of possible positions that result from different openings. As an example, take the King’s Indian, which gives black winning chances with a late-game bishop on g7, but white gains the temporary advantage of knights with strong outposts. Other openings create an entirely different set of imbalances. For example, the Sicilian in which all-out tactical attacks on opposite sides of the board takes center stage. Importance of each move Pro states, “having more moves does not dilute the importance of each one.” Taken abstractly, Pro is correct. But within the context of a game, each move in Chess will have more significance and impact on that specific game. That is a matter of simple math: 1/40 to 1/200. Chess moves within a game have more impact and meaning. Psychological Warfare In Round 3, Pro argued that psychological moves in Go are weaker than the best moves. Now Pro argues that psychological moves are the strongest. Suppose, for the sake of argument, I grant Pro this much, this still would only demonstrate the equality of Chess and Go, not the superiority of Go. But as I have argued, Chess is more psychological. The game explicitly thematizes the psychological, and the effects of psychology can be witnessed directly. In Chess, the pieces can move, and each one has a different function. This creates the constant threat of bluffs. Nothing can be taken for granted, because every piece can move. In Go, the opponent might make a wrong move, but because the stones cannot move, psychology cannot effect what has already been done. In Chess, it can. An opponent’s entire plan can be ruined as the opponent scurries to meet false threats. Luck in Go Read the quote as given by my opponent again. Notice that there are two games, one against Pao Wen Yao and one against Gu Lingy. In the game against Gu Lingyi, there is a mistake admitted. But in the game against Pao Wen Yao, no mistake is admitted. It is a simple matter of luck. So, the luck argument stands. Furthermore, making mistakes is more prevalent in Go because there are a greater number of moves. Luck is related to making mistakes; because there are more moves per game in Go, there is more chance of making a mistake. This increases the luck factor of Go, as compared with Chess. Fairness Pro argues that two players can agree to not use komidashi in the standard way, but that is irrelevant to this debate. Players in any game can agree to change the rules of that game. Does that mean the rules of the game permit this? No. It means the players are playing a variation of the game, but not the game itself. There are a huge number of variations in Chess that I could have used in this debate to make arguments. I did not because they are not the game of Chess anymore. Likewise, agreeing to not use komidashi is the equivalent of no longer playing Go – you would be playing a differnet game. I urge readers to use the definition of komidashi that Pro has provided throughout the debate, the definition that Pro used in the first Round to make the flawed argument that Go is better than Chess because Go does not allow draws. I turned the argument around on Pro, and Pro admits defeat on this crucial point by attempting to change the definition of komidashi at the last minute. Towards the end of the final Round, Pro states the following: “two people of perfectly equal skill do not exist.” This is Pro’s final attempt to attempt denying the superiority of Chess. But instead, Pro ends up admitting what I’ve been saying all along. In Go, it is assumed and presupposed that two people of equal skill cannot exist. This makes the game inherently undemocratic. It presupposes inequality. Chess admits the possibility that two players would be equal in skill. The possibility is evident by the fact that a player can play himself. The possibility of equal players will necessarily lead to lucky wins, since equal players will be unable to draw. Thus, we conclude that Go not only presupposes inequality, but also ends up introducing luck as a significant factor. We conclude Go is less fair than Chess. Conclusion Chess has enough possible variations to make it competitive with Go. Chess has more strategic/tactical depth than Go. Because Chess is temporal, Chess has more psychological depth. Go is unfair, because Go players cannot draw. The explanation provided is: because “two people of perfectly equal skill do not exist.” Go thus presupposes inequality. This will produce wins deterined by luck, and this makes Go unfair. For all these reasons, we conclude that Chess is a better game than Go.	CON	102
102	S765eba45-A13748150	Go is an overall superior game than Chess.	"Introduction Pro’s entire argument rests on a single difference between Go and Chess: a larger number of possible variations. This fact is not in contention. The raw number of candidate moves in Go is clearly higher than in Chess. But as I have said, this fact is not particularly noteworthy as far as the game’s value as a game goes. First off, keep in mind that the vast majority of moves in Go are moves that no serious player would ever consider. Pro gives the example of the opening, where Go has 361 potential starting moves and Chess only has 20. While this is true, in practical terms, there are only about 15 starting moves in Go that any player would seriously consider. What is evident is that the RELEVANT moves in Go are approximately equal to the RELEVANT moves in Chess. The key factor is the relevance of moves to a game’s strategic and tactical structure, to the game as a game. The issue of which game has more possible variations abstractly is just that, an abstraction that has very little to do with the game as it is played in practice. To make this clearer, I again pose the question from Round 2: why not double or triple the number of squares on the board, and you’ll have a game with more than twice the number of possible variations? Because a greater number of moves does not make the game any better or more interesting. This becomes clearer when we realize that both Chess and Go have more possible positions than atoms in the universe. Suffice it to say, Chess has more than enough possible moves and variations to make it competitive with Go. The question, then, is not which game has more possible positions. Both games have more than enough possible positions. The question is which game has greater depth strategically and tactically. And the answer to that question is clearly Chess. Pro barely contests it, and this is why. Tactical Themes The number of tactical themes in Chess far outweighs that of Go. According to Pro, the single tactical maneuver in Go is that of invading and capturing the opponent’s stones by surrounding them. Of course, the theme itself will have many variations, but the tactical objective is itself always the same. Chess is tactically more protean, as is evidence by the many tactical themes that emerge: multiple attack (the knight fork is the simplest), discovered attack, pinning, skewering, deflection, decoying, interference, clearance, blocking, brinkmate, x-ray (where pieces influence action “through” other pieces), overloading, zwischenzug (a counter-intuitive in-between move that forces unfavorable exchanges), pawn promotion, pursuit (perpetual attack), midgame stalemate, demolition (line-opening), trapping (the queen, for example). The list covers some of the more common ones, and in games, these tactical motifs can be blended and put together into beautiful combinations that result in truly artistic ends. Strategic Themes According to Pro, the strategic objectives in Go are about “keeping sente (initiative),” “building” and “maintaining” territory, and “reducing your opponent’s.” Sometimes, “you must cooperate with your opponent by allowing him/her to get some territory in order to gain some for yourself.” Notice that each of these is interrelated, and closely related to the primary objective of having more territory than your opponent. Compare Pro’s list of strategic objectives of Go to my list in Round 2 of strategic objectives in Chess. Every relevant strategic objective in Go is also a plausible objective in Chess. Furthermore, the positional themes in Chess are far more diverse and unique. For example, a battle over making your bishop stronger than the opponent’s knight is the kind of strategic imbalance and objective that has no comparison in Go. Chess is filled with these kinds of strategic imbalances, which give the game superior possibilities strategically and conceptually. The importance of each move Each move in Chess has more value relative to the entire game: 1/40 to 1/200 is barely a contest, Chess wins hands-down as the game with more valuable moves and positions considered invididually within the context of a whole game. Pro argues that because Go has more moves, it requires more concentration. That is false because, at the highest level of play, Chess and Go games last an equal quantity of time, which means sustained concentration is equal for both games. The relevant factor is that Chess has fewer moves. This makes each Chess position have more impact and meaning within the context of a game. Fewer moves also means that Chess is playable with lower time-controls. Hence, blitz/speed games are faster-paced in Chess, giving the game an exciting speed dynamic that is non-existent in Go. Psychological Warfare Pro admits that in Go, trick plays are bluffs and not the best possible moves. This is what distinguishes Go from Chess, because in Chess, the best move is often a purely psychological move. Fischer and Kasparov, two of the greatest Chess players to ever live, were famous for their psychological play style. Pro states that psychological warfare is more potent in Go. How can that be if the psychological moves themselves are weaker than the best moves? In chess, the best moves are psychological moves… Fischer and Kasparov are evidence of this play style. By admitting that psychological warfare is not ideal in Go, Pro also implies that Chess has more “potent” psychological tactics. Luck in Go Pro claims that anyone who knows anything about Go would know that luck plays no part. Pro also says that if luck did play a part in Go, Pro would cease to defend Go. I say luck has a part in Go because players cannot draw in Go. I explain this in the next section. For now, note that after defending the Mingren Title, Gu Li 9p (who won the international baduk championships three times), stated: “I am comparatively lucky in the Mingren title matches. I won a losing game over Pao Wen Yao… In this game, there was also a hopeless moment but I was lucky to win.” [1] Equality, Fairness, and Democracy Pro claims that Go is more equal and democratic. I argue to the opposite, that Chess is more equal and democratic. It is impossible to draw a game in Go. Even if both players play perfectly, or equally, one player will always win. Therefore, Go presupposes inequality between the players. Otherwise, the two players, as equals, would be able to attain draws. In Chess, a large number of games at the highest level are drawn. Chess, as a game, presupposes equality between the players. A difference in skill must be proven through a decisive and abosolute victory -- checkmate. Hence, Chess is clearly the more fair and democratic game. To me, this is a crucial factor in the debate between these two games. Go is a fun game, with great complexity, but Chess is a superior game. The key reason is because Chess is fair, Go is not. To make this clearer, consider Pro's reasoning. Pro states that Go is inherently unequal because black has an advantage. In Chess, however, the two sides are not inherently unequal. It is well known that the two sides are simply another strategic imbalance to take advantage of: white gets first move, black gets more information (by one move). Hence, by design, Go is inherently inferior to Chess. To correct for Go's inherent inequality, the game uses komidashi. The fatal problem with this rule is that it removes the possibility of a draw. So while the game in theory becomes fairer, in practice it remains less fair than Chess because in Go two equally skilled players will never be able to prove their equality. Notice, also, how this is another example of the way luck comes into play: in a match between two equally skilled players, the winner will only win because of luck, not skill. Conclusion Chess is strategically, tactically, and psychologically deeper than Go. Chess is more skill-based (in Go there are ""lucky wins""), and Chess is more equal, fair, and democratic. In sum, Chess is superior to Go. [1] http://tinyurl.com..."	CON	103
103	S1f6a3f53-A156ae50b	Chess lacks the necessary physical activity	Sports are about the perfection of our bodies, and therefore the competitive aspect of sport should relate directly to that perfection. In the Fundamental Principles of Olympism in the Olympic Charter the first is “combining in a balanced whole the qualities of body, will and mind”.13 Although we value the mental battle between athletes, we find that kind of exertion secondary, and not the core of sport which is the physical aspect. Chess consists only of the mind and to a lesser extent the will. It does not matter how well you can move the pieces from one square to the other. Therefore, chess celebrates a different aspect of the human condition than the Olympics and sports as a whole do: it cannot be an Olympic sport. [13] “Fundamental Principles of Olympism”, Olympic Charter, 8 July 2011, http://www.olympic.org/Documents/olympic_charter_en.pdf p.10	PRO	104
104	S963ff5f1-A90efb29a	Woman are not as good as men in chess.	Throughout history woman have never been able to match on the battlefield of the brain chess. There has only been one woman to play in men tournaments and win. However she is only one woman compared to the hundreds of men that have dominated the chess scene. Why if woman are better the men at everything can they not match them at the ultimate brain game. And it is no arguement to say that woman have not been able to match men due to gender discrimination against woman as a whole. To this I say in the past twenty years woman have been offered the same prospects as men but have never been able to match them. To quote Bobby Fischer one of the greatest chess players of all time when he was asked how good woman players are he said “oh they’re terrible”. There is a reason why women are not always generals during war. They cannot percieve tactics as well as mens. You are just basing your arguments on a person alone. Please substantiate yourself by a wider scope Plus when women are Generals they show to much compassion so what happens when you fave a merciless leader you lose everything women	PRO	105
105	S862fc413-A8d92c2e	Resolved: Bishops are superior to knights in the game of chess.	"Preface Pro's single overarching argument is that modern chess theory/practice is not superior to classical chess theory/practice, and that ""classical strategy is still utilized by grandmasters."" True, modern chess does use strategies from classical chess, but modern chess only does so when a particular position calls for it. The modern concept of ""rule-independence"" still dominates the decision-making process, and the chosen strategy is always dependent on the pragmatic analysis of positions, not on the blind application of general principles (otherwise known as the classical approach). Reading over Pro's reasoning, I have to admit I was somewhat shocked by Pro's explicit misunderstanding (assuming it was not intentional misrepresentation) of the facts. Particularly laughable was Pro's characterization of today's top players, Kasparov, Carlsen, and Kramnik, and Pro's blatant equivocation between ""positional"" chess and ""classical"" chess. Kasparov When Kasparov compares Carlsen's ""positional"" style to Karpov and Capablanca, it is to differentiate Carlsen from tactical players like himself, Alekhine, and Tal. Pro takes the quote out of context to conceal the reference to tactical chess. To clarify: positional play places emphasis on strategic, long-term characteristics of the game over direct tactical attack (I take the definition from Pro's discussion of Kramnik). Notice at once that this has nothing to do with differentiating between bishops or knights, and is practically irrelevant to our debate. What's more, Pro equivocates by claiming that positional chess is the equivalent of classical chess. Ironically, it was theoretically-inclined positional players (Nimzowitzh, Reti) that first used rule-independence as the primary variable in the evaluation of positions. Carlsen Pro claims Carlsen plays classical chess. Utterly absurd. In a recent interview, Carlsen says, ""I don't have any clear preferences in chess. I do what I think circumstances require of me."" Carlsen continues, ""Having preferences means having weaknesses."" [1] We couldn't ask for a better definition modern chess, directly from Carlsen himself. Kramnik Again, Pro equivocates, claiming that Kramnik's self-characterization as a positional player makes him a classical player. Pro's claim is nonsense. Kramnik is well-known as a paradigm-shifting player, the leader of the ""Pragmatic School"" [2], the only player to take Kasparov's world-champion title away. In response to losing, Kasparov described Kramnik's style as ""pragmatic and tenacious,"" further evidence of Kramnik as the leading exemplar of modern chess and rule-independence. [3] As such, Kramnik's revolutionary play can hardly be called ""classical,"" and Pro's fantasy that ""positional chess"" is ""classical chess"" is just that, a fantasy based on faulty reasoning and insistent equivocation. Alekhine and Euwe Pro cites Euwe's The Development of Chess Style as an example of ""classical strategy,"" and implies that classical chess is superior to modern chess because Euwe beat Alekhine. First off, it is obvious that Pro has not read Euwe's book. Euwe's book is the first text offering a historical analysis of chess style, tracing the ""shift in paradigm"" from Philidor's chess theory, termed ""Romantic"" chess, to Steinitz's ""Classical"" chess, to Nimzowitsch and Reti's ""Modern"" chess. The development is shown as a paradigm-shift, in which earlier theories and practices are replaced by newer theories and practices in the same way science progresses. Refutations are discovered and solutions proposed. Euwe thus distinguishes the Romantic era, where ""concern was not for sober truth... only for beauty"" (pg. 12), from the Classical era in which ""truth"" was discovered through guiding ""classical principles,"" and finally the Modern era, where refutations to these principles led to the adoption of more and more principles, with ""an exception to every principle"" (pg. 15). Euwe's book ends short of today's ""Pragmatic"" era of Kramnik, Leko, Anand, Carlsen, Aronian, but the progression is obviously towards the emancipation of chess from rules and principles in favor of pragmatic analysis that unpacks the particularity and uniqueness of every position. Think about it: why else would we play chess if we had it figured it out? Chess is an ever-evolving game that constantly defies our expectations because of its inherent complexity, each position requiring its own novel evaluation and decision-making process. To even suggest that bishops are superior to knights completely undermines the progress in chess theory, from the Romantic to the Classical to the Modern to the Pragmatic. Horowitz Bishops I did not respond to this because I thought it was implied in my discussion of the bishop-pair and knight-pair. Also, Pro's definition of ""Horowitz Bishops,"" which is a term I have not seen in the theoretical chess literature (not once, I'd be surprised to see a reputable source behind it), is easily turned: because bishops rely on being paired for their power, as soon as a bishop is exchanged, the other bishop is stuck on one color and easily becomes inactive and powerless relative to the knight that can switch between colors. Mobility So now, let's be generous to Pro and, for the sake of argument, grant Pro that classical chess is correct. Hypothetically, just for the sake of argument... It still does not follow, given classical strategy, that bishops are better than knights. Take mobility, for example. Every piece has an ideal position in which its mobility and activity is best exemplified. Bishops have more range and mobility than knights in a very limited set of positions (when they are unblocked by pawns and other pieces). Kights, on the other hand, can move over pieces, giving them a clear mobility advantage in closed positions. Pro concedes this point. Furthermore, a knight can attack a total of 8 squares, and can move in every direction of the board, whereas bishops can only move (in an ideal situation where they are unblocked) to 7 squares, and only in two directions, diagonally. If you really think about it, bishops are far more limited: bishops cannot go through pieces, they move to less squares, in less directions, and are stuck on one color. Mobility advantage clearly goes to knights. Opening Knights are better, Pro conceded this point. Pro's example of the Kings Indian is actually an example in favor of knights: it is an opening where White's knights take the early advantage, but Black pins hopes on a late-game bishop (on g7) advantage when the position opens up. Middlegame See Round 2. Endgame See Round 2. Turn Pro's argument: knight + queen is stronger than bishop + queen. When queens are exchanged, knights and bishops equalize. Pro's faulty logic assumes (for now reason) that bishops become stronger on exchange of queens. Material Value Kaufmann's analysis is flawed. First, it ignores ""draws,"" which account for the majority of games. Second, victory/defeat, as a criterion of ""truth,"" is not theory-laden. Lost games are more often attributed not to theory but to particular bad moves, and Kaufmann's analysis ignores that. Finally, his results demonstrate statistically negligible difference between bishops and knights. Pro concedes the point, so no point arguing it. Conclusion According to Federico Garcia, ""there is no way that a non-modern player has any success in modern chess."" [4] The reasoning is obvious: modern chess has developed pragmatic responses to every strategy in classical chess, so that where a classical player would be unable to handle the pragmatic strategies of modern chess, a modern player would have no problem whatsoever in dealing with a classical player. In modern chess, knights and bishops exist in unstable equilibrium, their value changing depending on the position, and the distribution of positions favoring neither. Resolution is negated. [1] http://tinyurl.com... [2] http://tinyurl.com... [3] http://tinyurl.com... [4] http://tinyurl.com..."	CON	106
106	S1329642e-A82164ba7	Chess, with additional tournament rules, should be an Olympic sport.	"I thank my opponent for his response and will see what I can do against it. Pro has agreed that we are talking about the possibility of chess in the near future (within the next few Olympics). He has also agreed that any radical changes (such as boxing chess, might be fun) would cause a divide in the sport that would make it entirely different from the original, and so not popular enough to qualify it as an olympic sport. What the debate really comes down to, is if the current model of chess is 1) physical enough as is to be an olympic sport or 2) can be altered to be physical enough to be an olympic sport without becoming something entirely different (such as boxing chess) to where it loses too many followers to count. 1) Currently, chess (at the common level, not the Grandmaster level with all their rules for them) is no more physical then watching a movie (a few hours of sitting there). While that does take a certain level of stamina, it is certainly not an olympic level of stamina. On that point, one could argue that it does take some physical capabilities to play, it does not take enough physical capabilities to merit a spot in the olympics. 2) I, personally, cannot see any potential changes that could make chess much more physical, to an olympic level, that will not cause it to split from classical chess and form a new branch that does not have the large backing. ""I submit that due to its violence, MMA would not make it as an Olympic sport although it is arguably one of the most physical sports in the world. Also, golf does not make it but mainly because of the burden building an 18 hole course. Countries are having trouble accommodating more and more."" We can see that many sports do not make it to the olympics even though they are very physical indeed, Nascar could be added to that list, or drag racing, even though the precision skill of driving is extremely difficult. But I would like us to remember golf in particular. Golf is another sport that technically meets all the points of the IOC's missions, yet it is not chosen, simply because of its economical and logistical issues. This shows, that by simply meeting the IOC's mission points, is not enough to merit any activity from getting into the olympics. It is completely up to the IOC and their preferences."	CON	107
107	S17224160-A9b6e0d1a	chess sucks	i think its pretty pointless when someone thinks they are so much better than everyone else, literately anyway. So he starts a thread that will attract attention - even if its a small amount just to piss someone off and get some attention. Then he can feel all big when they can't understand his jargon when he bitches at the practicality of a game when his own literal talents are quite unpractical in a forum such as this. Chess is a game of Kings, ever heard that one? Kinda uplifting it from the retards from society if you suck at it learn, its a really easy game so stop crying! And games can last for hours, or 10 mins, its skill dependant on both sides.	CON	108
108	Sb797e0ae-A89e82b4c	Chess is the best board game	"""There is risk involved in Chess. Playing aggressively is filled with danger."" Do you want to tell me that chess has everything ? ""Of course there is SOME skill to Monopoly (it’s not chutes and ladders after all), but the large amount of chance is my key point."" Same ""Do you disagree that even the best laid plans can be demolished by a bit of bad luck in Monopoly?"" Nope, you also need luck. ""And how does one put houses on a property? By getting all the squares of one particular colour."" Most likely you'll have to do trading for this. "" However, it would be impossible to teach someone to play Monopoly if they didn’t speak English."" No. One only needs to know how to count and roll the dice. ""How quick a game?"" 4 minutes if you want. ""What could you achieve, even playing high-speed, in 10 minutes in Monopoly?"" If you begin with random properties, two dices, instead of jail you get game over, some experience. Then you can have a fast and wild monopoly game. ""The ‘skill’ elements of Poker involve bluff and reading your opponents. How do these elements apply to Monopoly?"" You have to know how, when and for how much to trade. While knowing that with some bad luck you may end up with a terrible trade yourself . ""I think this applies far more to Chess than Monopoly. You can’t adapt yourself to a situation when you’re restricted to the roll of the dice."" Yes you can. Lets say you're bankrupt, what property do you sell ? Let say someone wants to have a trade, what do you do ? ""In our age of online gaming, I can’t see children playing Monopoly for ‘adrenalin’."" Video games lack interaction with friends in real life and they also lack realism. Yes the graphics are getting better and better but its ultimately not you who is in the video game. Monopoly is different and better in that way. ""Who wants to be beaten by a player significantly inferior to them?"" Who wants to know how the game will end ?"	CON	109
109	Sc4621e65-A5c7ffeb2	Chess (Full resolution in first round)	"It appears rather evident from CON's response that he hasn't even read my arguments properly. Nonetheless, I will begin by responding to his arguments. ""Here's the brutal truth: if Michael Jordan hated basketball, he'd still be just as good. Want to know why? Michael Jordan isn't particularly gifted at basketball in particular, he is (even in his famous quotes) merely a man of hard work for success. He could have succeeded at anything had he worked just as hard and stayed focused."" CON argues that ""IF"" Michael Jordan (although I find it barely related to the topic itself) hated basketball, he'd still be just as good. Looking at it from a wider angle, common sense would tell you that if a man actually hated something, he would be rather stupid to try and aim for it. ""A chess player needn't have an ounce of love for the game of chess and a chess coach has no duty whatsoever to instill this."" This point is more or less a copy of his previous. Therefore I would have the same responses. If you hated something, makes no sense why you would do it. ""Better to be the best and hate the game than be the worst and love it"" - Me"" Just your opinion. Doesn't make it right. ""As for the example of the Kasparov 'wild move' you showed, a player trained vigorously to see any and all victory strategies in the blink of an eye would have been able to think that move through (I don't mean to show off but even I would have realised that move)"" My opponent has clearly not read my arguments properly. Allow me to briefly go over the documentary as it is clear that CON has not understood the full extent of that argument. Garry Kasparov, a Russian chess GM (Grandmaster) was challenged to a match against the strongest chess machine during that time (Named Deep Blue). The first time he smashed the computer gaining victory. He was later on rematched to a ""New and improved"" Deep Blue. During the match, he smashed the computer in the first game, like he did during the first match. However, in the second game, he believed there was human intervention during the game, so his ""anti-computer"" strategy costed him the entire game. It was also not part of the rules that a human can intervene with the game, so he believed it was cheating. His opponents were not able to compromise. With this in mind, he was always thinking of his loss (where he believed human intervention was invovled). That costed him the entire match. There was no such thing as a ""wild"" move, as outlined by CON. ""Think of it this way: No matter how much a student loves a subject the ones who get A*'s were always the ones who trained to be at their full efficiency for the exam, not the ones who spent their time fulfilling their love for examinations."" Although this point may hold some substance, it is not directly related to the topic. Another point, CON has not responded to most of arguments. Most importantly, he has not responded to my points on why it is more beneficial to appreciate the game over being a chess player. He has not responded to my points about pyschological stress and violence that chess players are obliged to deal with. Over to CON..."	PRO	110
110	Sc4621e65-A98a0f67d	Chess (Full resolution in first round)	"Here's the brutal truth: if Michael Jordan hated basketball, he'd still be just as good. Want to know why? Michael Jordan isn't particularly gifted at basketball in particular, he is (even in his famous quotes) merely a man of hard work for success. He could have succeeded at anything had he worked just as hard and stayed focused. A chess player needn't have an ounce of love for the game of chess and a chess coach has no duty whatsoever to instill this. A quote that's relevant here is as follows: ""Better to be the best and hate the game than be the worst and love it"" - Me As for the example of the Kasparov 'wild move' you showed, a player trained vigorously to see any and all victory strategies in the blink of an eye would have been able to think that move through (I don't mean to show off but even I would have realised that move). Think of it this way: No matter how much a student loves a subject the ones who get A*'s were always the ones who trained to be at their full efficiency for the exam, not the ones who spent their time fulfilling their love for examinations."	CON	111
111	S1329642e-A27c31e38	Chess, with additional tournament rules, should be an Olympic sport.	"The game of chess, with a few additional tournament rules, should be an Olympic sport. Introduction: Chess is unlike many games played. The element of chance does not exist. No dice rolls, no hidden cards, just the pieces in the same starting position every time. Any lost position is the fault of the player, not a lucky dice roll, or malfunctioning equipment. In addition, no absolute win has been found. The starting player does not have a set of moves that guarantee victory. Concessions: 1. I fully agree the Olympic committee has rejected ""mind games"" from contention for Olympic sports. They are mistaken, but I know this has come up in the past. http://www.time.com... 2. I am fully aware that a Chess Olympiad takes place outside of the official Olympic Games. This resolution deals with the official Olympics Games, not the separate Olympiad. Additional Rules: 1.Once the first piece is moved, neither player may leave the board except for two 15 minute time outs. Leaving your area is a forfeit. 2.The lighting, boards, pieces, clocks must be identical and no player input will be accepted concerning these areas. 3.Players must be able to move their own pieces without the aide of others or mechanical devices. 4.Computer programs cannot compete. 5.No eating, smoking, or drinking at the board. All outside activities must occur in the 15 minute break periods. 6.The time limit will be universal (40 moves in 100 minutes, 20 moves in 50 minutes, 10 minutes for the remainder of the game with an increment of 30 seconds.) 7.Players must play two games in one day. One as black and one a white in a round robin style tournament. Each player plays as white and black against each opponent and draws as black will be awarded more points in the case of a tie. 8.Other rules will be governed by the Olympic Committee, but for this debate the FIDE rules, except when different from the above rules, will be used. http://www.fide.com... Sport: a. Physical activity that is governed by a set of rules or customs and often engaged in competitively. b. A particular form of this activity. 2. An activity involving physical exertion and skill that is governed by a set of rules or customs and often undertaken competitively. 3. An active pastime; recreation. http://www.thefreedictionary.com... Argument: Chess is governed by a set of rules or customs and is often engaged in competitively. With the additional rules provided, chess can fall within a physical activity. Endurance is a physical trait. Currently, Grand Master games can be postponed and sealed moves kept so players can leave the board and sleep, eat, etc. Under the rules I listed such activities at the board would be eliminated. Players would have to train to maintain mental awareness with physical stamina while at the board and must be able to write down their moves and move their own pieces. The coordination between thinking about a move and moving the correct piece legally after several hours of play will require endurance and stamina. Chess, under these rules, is a sport. Differentiating other games: Bridge – This game has also made a bid for inclusion, but chance plays a role as cards are hidden and shuffled. Chess has no element of chance. Checkers – This game has been solved. http://spectrum.ieee.org... Chess, despite countless computer programs has not been solved and humans can beat computers. Why the Olympics: The Olympics could help settle controversies surrounding multiple chess champions from competing organizations and the political pull of the Olympics could bring chess to countries that refuse to fund the sport. Also, the level of publicity concerning the Olympics would help bring recognition to the champions of this ancient sport. The mind game Olympics, although a great concept, cannot boast the history and prestige of the Official Olympic Games. Current trends make getting Grand Masters to compete can be washed away with a standardized set of rules in one of the biggest sports extravaganza in the world. Chess should be an Olympic sport."	PRO	112
112	Sc4621e65-A86bab475	Chess (Full resolution in first round)	"My opponent's entire resolution seems have fallen one one, purely opinion-based, concept that ""If you don't love something, there's no point in mastering it."" Now, I am going to tear her cute little adorable baby of an argument and then shall reinstate everything that I said (which will be awfully easy considering her single comeback to absolutely all that I said was ""If you don't love something, there is no point mastering it."" The concept my opponent proposes is this: First love something, then you will have reason to master it. The concept I propose is this: Love only begins after full understanding is achieved. Thus, making a student love chess is inferior to making them master it intellectually. Now I shall tear my opponent's proposal apart. Tell me something you love to do. Do you like to masturbate? Do you like to run? Do you like to kiss? Do you like to play chess?... If you have something in mind, I now would like you to subjectively, and objectively, observe and understand the mechanism of firstly yours, and later everyone's, love. The mechanism of love is something my opponent has erroneously interpreted. No baby loves to masturbate, run, kiss nor play chess. In fact most of baby-life is spent pooping and crying. Then child-life is spent in fantasy land, adolescence is that moody phase (like the phase of a rookie chess player desperately trying to get amazing at the game while constantly losing to masters) and then comes adulthood, the phase where we finally fully grasp what life has granted us great talent at, and thus fall in love with it. Sure we can love football and be an obese father cheering at the sidelines with his family but ultimately that does not better one's ability at the game whatsoever, no more than playing COD makes one an SAS Cadet in the slightest. What love for something originates from, even a person, is when we delve into it without loving at all, when circumstances force us to master it (whether it be running because that's the only thing you seem to have the money to pay good coaching for, whether it's masturbating because that's the you could sufficiently teach yourself to master or chess because you had one of the harshest coaches of all time who made you a god at it. In fact let me abuse DDO itself and ask why RoyLatham and Danielle love debating so much, because their hard work and discipline have made them virtual GODS at the art/activity. People automatically will love whatever they have worked their A$$ off to achieve. you think Usain bolt loved sprinting his whole life? Of course not. It hurts like hell and rips your thigh and upper leg muscles. Sprinting is pure pain and agony intensified to the maximum level and reached at the highest rate possible AGAIN AND AGAIN AND AGAIN until you can go at that rate for a little LONGER before that pain kicks in. The drug isn't in sprinting itself, I even would go as far as to say that Usain Bolt still doesn't love to sprint, what he loves is seeing his hard work pay off plain and simple. Whether he was the Michael Jordan of basketball, the Muhammad Ali of boxing, the Stephen Hawking of physics, the Bruce Lee of martial arts, the Christopher Nolan of movie directing or the Michael Zuckerberg of social networking is really irrelevant. The love came after the blood sweat and tears which came without any love or mercy at all. To make a beast at chess, a coach needn't give two sh*ts about their student's love for the game. They must raise the number one chess player, not the number one chess fan. Coaching isn't a fairy-tale and only a few of the human race qualify to be professional coaches at anything BECAUSE it requires brutal harshness. Here is another quote by me: ""A coach that is loved should do their job."" Plain and simple, you need that motto for life."	CON	113
113	S765eba45-A60669662	Go is an overall superior game than Chess.	"The Proposition The full proposition is as reads: ""Go is an overall superior game than Chess."" While I am using this debate as a sort of distraction from my more serious debates about God and such, I still wholeheartedly agree with the proposition and will be defending it to my dying breath. I, as pro, shall be arguing that Go is an overall superior game than Chess. As Con, my opponent shall be arguing that Chess is an overall superior game than Go. Therefore, the burden of proof rests on both of our shoulders. Definitions Chess: I'm sure nearly everyone, if not everyone, knows what chess is. It's important to clarify this is the European version of chess, not shogi or anything of the sort. Go: If you don't know what Go is, then use this debate as an opportunity to broaden your horizons. Go, as it's known in the West (Igo in Japan, Baduk in Korea, and Weiqi in its homeland of China), is a strategy board game played on a 19x19 grid-like board. Overall Superior: better in more ways than not. Subjectivity of the Debate While it will be mine and my opponent's personal bias toward one game over another which will motivate our arguments, our subjective opinions should be supported by objective facts. For example, even though it's an opinion that Dell laptops are better than Macintoshes, it can be supported by the objective fact that they are cheaper and can run .exe files without the use of Bootcamp or some other such nonsense. Debate Structure Round One: Introduction and Acceptance only Round Two: Opening arguments only Round Three: Rebuttals Round Four: Rebuttals and closing statements To Conclude I thank my future opponent and the viewers for making this debate possible, the topic of which is of much importance to me."	PRO	114
114	S765eba45-A998362a9	Go is an overall superior game than Chess.	"Thank you for your response, Four Trouble. Win or lose, the important thing is that I was able to promote the wonderful game of Go while going head-to-head with such a noble and intellectual debater. 1. Complexity There was much on this point I was previously unable to say due to the character limit (despite it being 8,000). It's fair to say that in trying to convince members of the audience Go is more complex than Chess, I am fighting an uphill battle. Not because Chess is, indeed, more complex than Go, but because the audience already knows of Chess' complexity, at least somewhat, and you can never really understand how complex Go is without having played it beyond the level of a beginner. That being said, I will still try to explain in such a way that even someone who has never played Go can understand (as I've been doing). There are 361 moves for the first player to choose from, but what my opponent says is true (well, half true): there are far less plausible moves. But only 15? No way. The number is, at the very least, 60. But apparently, we must forget about how many variations a game can legally represent. My opponent says: ""The question, then, is not which game has more possible positions. Both games have more than enough possible positions."" I disagree. The number of variations do play a role in the complexity of the game. A 9x9 game of Go is much more comparable to a game of Chess. In a 9x9 game, there will be one major clash, one decisive battle, that will determine the winner. But in 19x19 Go (the standard), there will be four or five or six battles like the ones 9x9 Go and Chess are entirely comprised of, and they will be spread across all over the board, each effecting each other in ways you must be able to utilize. Some of these battles may run into each other and cause the kind of all-or-nothing blood-fest I was describing in my previous round. You have multiple battles happening on the board simultaneously, all interacting with each other either directly or indirectly. Yes, in Chess you have battles over multiple pieces or spaces on the board, but that is only comparable to one battle in a 19x19 Go, where you fight over certain key points and stones. But in Go, when the battle's over, you have another one just waiting to take its place, until they all finally connect with each other in the end game. So, why not increase the number to 31x31 or something higher? Because then the battles that ensue will be too spread apart and will barely interact with each other, if at all, even indirectly. Again, this is in contrast to 9x9 that's so cramped you'll only have room for one battle (like in Chess). 17x17 and 21x21 are not drastically different to a player of lower skill, but it's clear to see that the types of battles that naturally happen in Go are best suited for 19x19 (17x17 is a little too cramped and 21x21 is a little too spread apart). You can also play with even numbers, like 20x20, but then there's no tengen (middle point). It's fun for nonchalant matches, but there is no greater challenge than 19x19. My opponent makes a list of many kinds of tactics Chess is composed of. I could make a similar list for Go, but you'd hardly understand a word of it. In fact, just a kifu mapping joseki for taisha is enough to balance out anything Chess could have to offer. Tsumego for under-the-stone tesuji illustrates the foresight and creativity players must have in tight life-and-death situations. What that's? Not following what I'm saying? Like I said: an uphill battle. Let me compare the two games another way: in Chess, the setup is already laid out when you begin. Your second row is pawns, the two ends of your first is rooks (and so on and so forth). I can think of no other way to play Chess that would be fair. After all, it would be ridiculous if you could choose to switch your second and first rows (save the king, of course). But in Go, you get unimaginable complexity from simplicity, not only from the leniently simple rules of Go, but also the setup. The Go board is without any shape or form in the beginning, and you and your opponent are the catalysts for the Big Bang every match. You decide, in the opening few moves, what kind of match you are going to play: passive, bloody, influential, territorial, etc. There are countless openings to choose from in Go, but when you talk about ""openings"" in Chess, you are talking about something else entirely. The opening is always the same; there is no choosing. In Go, you decide the setup and the follow-through of the entire match. Importance of each move ""Each move in Chess has more value relative to the entire game: 1/40 to 1/200 is barely a contest"" This is simply looking at the issue the wrong way. As I've said, having more moves does not dilute the importance of each one. If you make a mistake in Chess, you lose (against someone of equal skill). If you make a mistake in Go, you lose (against someone of equal skill). Therefore, it can be said that the importance of making each move the best possible move is equal in Chess and Go. But in Go, you must make 200 moves the best possible move, compared to only 40-60 in Chess. Psychological Warfare I never said the best possible moves in Go were not psychological. Sometimes, the best moves are psychological, as I stated in the example of someone keeping initiative by forcing his opponent to defend something that was destined to die in the end anyway. What I said was that in addition to this, Go also has trick plays. Luck in Go My opponent thus far has proven himself to be a debater of much integrity, so I will not accuse of him intentionally quote-mining. However, upon further review of his source, you will notice his quote is, indeed, incomplete. It should continue to read: ""I think I am comparatively lucky in the Mingren title matches. I won a losing game over Pao Wen Yao at the last time. In this game, there was also a hopeless moment but I was lucky to win as Gu Lingyi fortunately made a small endgame mistake."" His opponent made a small mistake in the final few moves of the game. This not only refutes the notion that Go has luck, but also strengthens the idea that every move carries high importance. Fairness Before I say anything else on this subject, please note that there are many ways in which to incorporate the rule of komidashi into your games. If you feel it is too high or too low, or that it shouldn't have a "".5"" at the end, then you and your opponent can agree to do use komidashi a different way. For instance, you and your opponent can simply agree on a different value, or one player can choose what the komi will be and the other player will choose which color to play. That being said, while Chess players can theorize what the result of a ""perfect game"" would be in Chess, Go players don't have that luxury. Go is simply a far deeper game; a ""perfect game"" just does not exist, and two people of perfectly equal skill do not exist. In fact, two people of perfectly equal skill in Chess probably don't exist either, but the games still result in a tie due its magnanimous rules. The rules of Go offer far more precision in determining the outcome of a game and, therefore, Go's spectrum of players' skill levels has a much wider diversity and visibility when applied in a match. Both games try to be as fair as their rulesets allow, but Go's rules simply allow for more equality than Chess. Conclusion I must use my final round to direct you to a very user-friendly and popular English server to play Go if this debate has at all piqued your interest: http://www.gokgs.com... I thank my opponent very much for debating this topic with me and the viewers for reading. Please carefully consider both of our arguments and vote accordingly."	PRO	115
115	S765eba45-A44e6acce	Go is an overall superior game than Chess.	"Thank you, FourTrouble, for accepting this debate. What is Go? Go is a strategy board game where players alternate placing stones on a 19x19 grid in order to surround territory. The goal is not to have your kingdom overthrow your opponent's like in Chess, but to build your kingdom from scratch better than your opponent does his/hers (whoever has more points, which includes both territory and captured stones, at the end of the game wins). Also unlike Chess, there is no hierarchy of pieces; the stones in Go do not differ at all in function or capabilities and they all potentially have the same value. Since its invention in ancient China, skill in Go has been seen as one of the marks of a scholarly gentlemen. Below, I will outline five main reasons why Go is a superior game than Chess: 1. Go is a far deeper and much more logical game than Chess. ""Impossible,"" I hear a unanimity from the audience, ""There is no greater intellectual arena than the chessboard! To capture the opponent’s king is to prove your worth as a thinking man/woman!"" Of course, such proclamations are only made by those unfamiliar with the depth the goban offers. It is true that Chess can provide a great deal of challenge to its studiers, but even this is paler than a blue moon when compared to the shining brilliance of Go. Edward Lansker, a highly influential Chess and Go player in the West, once said ""While the baroque rules of Chess could only have been created by humans, the rules of Go are so elegant, organic, and rigorously logical that if intelligent life forms exist elsewhere in the universe, they almost certainly play go."" Let’s compare the two games' complexities objectively: on the very first move in Chess, white has 20 possible moves to choose from (two for each of his/her eight pawns, and two for each of his/her two knights). In stark contrast, on the very first move in Go, black (black goes first in a standard Go game) has 361 moves to choose from (one for each of the intersections on the 19x19 grid). It's clear to see that from the very beginning of the game and throughout its completion, the number of possible variations in Go outweigh Chess like a sumo-wrestler at an anorexia convention. 2. The strongest minds in Go are actual minds. Just who is the strongest Chess player in history? Is it Bobby Fischer? Emanuel Lasker? No. It’s Houdini, a computer program with an ELO rating of 3300, 600 higher than a super-grandmaster. While computers generally do struggle with positional understanding, the relatively low number of legal variations in Chess still allow for the programs' algorithms to decisively pick the correct branch of moves far more expertly than any human. Meanwhile, Zen19, wildly recognized as the strongest program in Go, is only about an American 5d and any strong amateur can crush it with minimal effort. This means the highest-level games are played by flesh-and-blood people, not cold and calculating machines. I won't blame my opponent very much if he says this point is too subjective, but I feel as though learning from actual people instead of robots gives the game a much more fun and competitive environment. 3. Neither player has an inherit advantage in Go. It’s only natural that the player who moves first in a game such as Chess will have the inherit advantage of initiative. In 1994, Chess grandmaster Evgeny Sveshnikov wrote this: ""Black players cannot afford to make even the slightest mistake [...] from a theoretical point of view, the tasks of White and Black in chess are different: White has to strive for a win, Black—for a draw!"" Indeed, this inherit advantage is present in tic-tac-toe, checkers, Chess, and would otherwise be found even in Go. However, in the early 20th century, Go adopted a rule known as Komidashi. Because of this, white gets an automatic set number of points (called komi) in order to balance out his/her disadvantage of playing second. The impact this kind of rule has is colossal to players seeking an intellectual arena to engage in fair and equitable battles of the mind. Never can the second player say “Well, sure you won–you had the advantage,” because neither player has an advantage. Whoever wins will do so because of their own skill and nothing else. 4. Go games cannot end in a draw. Many chess grandmasters (including the first three World Champions of Chess) theorize(d) that, given perfect play, Chess should always result in a tie. Indeed, it is quite common for players of near equal strength to play to a stalemate, and some strategies have even been developed for the sole purpose of this endeavor when a win has become too far-fetched to obtain. A standard match of Go, on the other hand, cannot end in a tie. Remember the rule of Komidashi? The komi assigned to white is typically 6.5 points, and although this number is constantly under scrutiny and fine-tuning when necessary, the “.5” is always present. Therefore, it is impossible for a standard Go match to result in a tie, as one player must at least have half a point more than the other. 5. Go is even fun for mismatched games. Ever played someone significantly stronger or weaker than you in Chess? It is normally an impossibly difficult challenge (literally) for the weaker player and a boring experience at best for the stronger. In Go, however, even mismatched games can be fun with the handicap system. Depending on how vast the difference in skill is, the weaker player sets a certain number of stones on the board before play begins, thus creating a disadvantage the stronger player will have to overcome throughout the course of the game. While it is true that Chess players have tried to incorporate a handicap system as well (such as the stronger player playing without a queen or without both of his/her rooks), it’s difficult to place an objectively precise value on the pieces, since each piece is uniquely helpful in different situations, and different strategies utilize different pieces. In Go, it is far easier to calculate the value of placing a stone on the board. Therefore, the handicap system in Go is much more accurate and by extension more practical. To Conclude If you are in search of the greatest intellectual forum in gaming history, look no further than the classical logic incarnate that is Go."	PRO	116
116	S765eba45-A3efef1e9	Go is an overall superior game than Chess.	"Thank you, Four Trouble, for your response. I should explain that I used to play Chess quite fervently (along with Risk, Stratego, and any other strategy board game I could get my hands on), but my passions for all those took a backseat when I learned of Go. Chess is far more dynamic I grant that Chess is more dynamic in the sense that the individual pieces have the ability to move about the board. It's true, after all, what my opponent says: once you place a stone in Go, it cannot move from its position (unless it's captured). That is the weight of every decision. Of course, Chess would be unplayable if the pieces could not move. And likewise, Go would be unplayable if the pieces could move. Having a ruleset that requires the pieces to move about the board should not necessarily be considered a good attribute (let alone a superior attribute) unless Con can explain why. He offers two primary reasons, which I will address individually: 1. Inherent sense of complexity Con says because different pieces carry different capabilities, Chess has an inherent sense of complexity. I agree with this to a certain degree. There are more rules in Chess than in Go and, therefore, the game is more difficult to learn how to play. However, the complexity of a game's ruleset and the complexity of said game's actual play do not always necessarily share a direct relationship. The game of Risk, for example, has an overall more complicated ruleset than Chess, but doesn't have as deep or complicated play. Therefore, I would say that Go is actually better than Chess in this respect: it is quicker and easier for beginners to learn the rules and start playing, but once they do start playing, they will be met with the biggest challenge of their lives. 2. Greater aesthetic possibilities I must wholeheartedly disagree with this point. Firstly, as I've already stated, the number of different setups the goban can legally represent far outweigh that of the chessboard. Secondly, I would assert that nothing in the world is as aesthetically pleasing (aside from a certain someone whom I'm dating and shall be reading this), and rewardingly so, as the blossoming of a Go game from start to finish. In Chess, all of the pieces you will ever be able to use during the course of the game are available to you from the beginning and gradually dwindle as your opponent captures them. But in Go, the board is initially empty and births a completely unique liaison of shapes each and every time, like snowflakes if snowflakes could command armies and clash wits. Only someone who has never witnessed the blooming of shapes on the goban would say it lacks artistic value. But thirdly, and most importantly, this debate is not about who can portray their respective game more poetically (though if it was, I would win hands down, am I right?). Aesthetics are undoubtedly subjective and, therefore, this point is unsubstantiated. Chess is strategically deeper and more complex/Chess is more tactical, exciting, and fun/Chess is more difficult Con says that to summarize the play of Chess as merely the goal of capturing the opponent's king is too simplistic, and I would agree. Respectively, though, to summarize the play of Go as merely the goal of surrounding territory is too simplistic as well. You must keep your own groups connected and safe while attacking your opponent's when possible. You must constantly build and maintain your own framework of territory while reducing your opponent's, and even invading your opponent's when necessary (not too deep or it will be cut off and killed, but not too shallow or it will be ineffective). You must cooperate with you opponent by allowing him/her to get some territory in order to gain some for yourself, while still trying to end up with the better deal and without being too greedy. And you must do all of this while keeping sente (initiative), because once you lose that you may never get it back. Sometimes the conflict on the goban results in a full-board, all-or-nothing war where one side will be entirely slaughtered. Other games can be more passive where the player who more cleverly utilizes thickness will win. Con doesn't seem to understand how Go stones can fight each other without the ability to move, but rest assured: the goban is an unrelenting battlefield. If a group of your stones becomes entirely surrounded by your opponents' stones, it is captured. So while surrounding territory is the ultimate goal, the threat of bloodshed (or bloodshed itself) is the driving force that allows you to reach this goal (if you are ever too greedy or too charitable, too headstrong or too hesitant at any time, you will be severely punished). The importance of each move Con is correct by saying that a game of Go lasts many more moves than Chess, but this does not equate to any sort of homeopathic effect where each move is somehow diluted to mean less. In very low-level matches (matches involving two beginners) then yes, they can afford to make many mistakes and still somehow win. But when you gain enough strength and understanding, a single wrong move out of 200 or 300 moves can (and most likely will) cost you the entire match. Therefore, Go requires even more concentration than Chess as you must play at least about 150 moves without making a mistake (as opposed to about 60 in Chess). Psychological warfare Go players experience something very similar to Chess' dramaturgy of ""Because I played A, you must respond with B. Now I will play C, forcing you to play D. And now I will play E"" where A, C, and E all coordinate together to kill the opponent, despite the purely defensive B and D moves. Sente moves (moves that necessitate a response from the opponent) serve a big role in Go. Furthermore, Go has a myriad of trick plays: moves that serve to confuse the opponent with unique positions that seem to have weaknesses, but when responded to incorrectly become strengths. Of course, most trick plays are bluffs in the sense that they are not the best moves possible, so they are double-edged swords; when responded to incorrectly, they can be deadly, but when responded to correctly, they can be self-defeating. Therefore, I assert that psychological warfare is not only present in Go, but is actually more potent than in Chess. No luck in Chess This is an argument that could only have been forth seriously by one who does not know enough about Go. Mark my words, ladies and gentlemen of the audience, if luck played any part in Go, I would not be defending it so adamantly (or at all). Sensei's Library (my opponent's source on this point) is a reliable place to learn about Go terms, strategies, history, etc. But it serves as more than just an encyclopedia of Go; it also serves as a forum for players to discuss things which do not necessarily have any grounding in objectivity. This is one such thing. If you take a look at the source, you will notice it is one guy asserting different reasons why luck could possibly play a role in Go, and being subsequently refuted. The closest thing to luck in Go is dumb mistakes (which is still ultimately the fault of the player). Victory My opponent confuses the purpose of Komidashi. He seems to think it presupposes inequality in the players when it doesn't; it presupposes inequality in the two colors, black and white (playing first and playing second). Komidashi serves to give white an advantage (of automatically added points) equal to the advantage black gets by playing first. Let me explain more clearly. Black has the advantage of going first. If white gets nothing to compensate this, it would be unfair (as it is in Chess). White's compensation is automatically winning ties (getting an automatic .5 points added to his/her score). But .5 isn't enough to compensate black's advantage, so white get's more: traditionally 6.5. Therefore, Go is actually more democratic; it evens the terms to a perfectly level playing field so neither player has an advantage and must win on skill alone."	PRO	117
117	S7a8ec54c-A75631d8e	Knights vs. Bishops in Chess	I'll accept this debate. While my opponent does not specify which side we will each be arguing, I will inevitably discuss my side by a systemic evaluation of the piece's capabilities in the following aspects: The middle game, the end game, and individual matchups between other pieces. I look forward to a great debate! Chess is my favorite past-time!	CON	118
118	S720c2b45-A76907d95	The Bishop is better than the Knight in a game of chess	Thank you thegodhand for accepting this debate, as I said in Round 1 that round was just for introductions (that is why I made no data to argue in R1). Now to start the debate: The following is the most common assignment of point values for chess pieces: [1] •Pawn = 1 •Knight = 3 •Bishop = 3 •Rook = 5 •Queen = 9 Overall bishops and knights are worth about the same but I will argue that the Bishop will be more powerful to the player than the Knight due to the following facts: Range: Firstly, the Bishop is a long-range piece, while the Knight is clearly a short-range weapon. Therefore, when there is plenty of open space on the board, the Bishop normally outperforms the Knight. As a chess game progresses, pawns tend to get traded, removing support points from the knight and opening up lines for the bishop. This generally leads to the bishop's advantage increasing over time. [2] Open vs. Closed Positions: The bishop is better than the knight in open positions. The long-range power of a bishop shows itself best when no pawns block its diagonals. In this way a bishop can sweep from one end to the board to another quite easily. I will concede that the Knight is better in closed positions (due to the fact that I can jump over other pieces) but still in chess closed positions are a lot rarer than open positions. [2] Therefore the bishop will be more useful to the player than the Knight when it comes to positions. End game: Bishops generally gain in relative strength towards the endgame as more pieces are captured and more open lines are available for them to operate. When the board is empty, a bishop can influence both wings simultaneously, whereas a knight would need a few moves to do so. In an open endgame, a pair of bishops is decidedly superior to both a bishop and a knight, or two knights. A player possessing a pair of bishops has a strategic weapon in the form of a long-term threat to trade down to an advantageous endgame. [3] Therefore bishops are more powerful to the player in the End game. Professional valuing: From the values above you can see that the Queen is worth 9 points and the pawn is worth 1 point. This tells us that the Queen is more important than a pawn. The Bishops and Knights are worth 3 points but it is generally considered that the Bishops are worth slightly more than the Knights. Many professional chess players have valued the bishop to be more valuable than the Knight. The following points show how Professional chess players value the different chess pieces: [4] •Sarratt: Knight = 3.1, Bishop = 3.3 •Philidor: Knight = 3.05, Bishop = 3.5 •Peter Pratt: Knight = 3, Bishop = 3 •Bilguer: Knight = 3.5, Bishop = 3.5 •Lasker: Knight = 3, Bishop = 3 •Euwe: Knight = 3ï¿½, Bishop = 3ï¿½ •Lasker: Knight = 3ï¿½, Bishop = 3ï¿½ •Horowitz: Knight = 3, Bishop = 3+ •Evans: Knight = 3ï¿½, Bishop = 3ï¿½+ •Fischer: Knight = 3, Bishop = 3ï¿½ •Kaufman: Knight = 3ï¿½, Bishop = 3ï¿½ •Berliner: Knight = 3.2, Bishop = 3.33 •Yevgeny Gik: Knight = 2.4, Bishop = 4 Overall out of the Professional chess players I have listed it appears that 7 of them consider the bishop to be of more value than the Knight, the rest valued the bishop and the knight to be equal whereas none of them valued the Knight is to be more valuable. [4] So it is clear that in this case even professional chess players consider the Bishop to be better than the Knight for a player in a game of chess. I end Round 2 here... Sources: [1] http://www.chesscorner.com... [2] http://www.chess.com... [3] http://www.chess-poster.com... [4] http://en.wikipedia.org...	PRO	119
119	S37b8c7d-A7e1e860a	is chess a skill that all people should know	Likewise, actually, contrary to what you have said, just about anyone can paint! Even elephants paint flowers and self-portraits of themselves: http://www.youtube.com... There are people with no arms who can paint: http://www.google.com... You mean that we might not all paint as well. Well maybe but art is expressive and subject too so it depends. But even still, whether you are good at painting or not, the skills and the therapy from painting are still useful in many ways, similarly in principle as you have suggested chess. I could go on and on like you have about how some of us can't play chess, are any good at chess, etc., like you are about painting.	CON	120
120	S60532011-A31749576	Chess should be an Olympic event.	In this debate, I will argue that the game of Chess should be implemented into the Olypmics. My opponent will argue the opposite stance. This debate will follow a specific structure and will have specific rules. In this debate, there will be no forfeitting. Sources, if any, will be cited using the MLA format. Proper conduct will be observed. In round one, my opponent will only accept the debate and state his stance. Round two will be for main arguments. The debaters will offer rebuttals and more arguments in the third round. The fourth round will be for further rebuttals and any last arguments. The fifth round will be for any last rebuttals and conclusion paragraphs. I look forward to this debate.	PRO	121
121	S9b368338-A759f619a	Chess requires more skill than Draughts/Checkers to master!	"I will begin with a quote, ""We play chess but we can't analyse it, we analyse checkers but we can't play it."" Remember the Pro agreed to the conditions of a Con win if he cannot show Chess is harder to master than Checkers. Thus if none of my opponent's points stand by the end of the round, regardless of whether any of my points stand or not, Con wins. C1: Mastery While the Con acknowledges that chess has more rules and is harder to learn, by no means is chess harder to master. I am a living example of this; I have played both games prolifically since childhood, but I improved at chess much, much faster than I improved at checkers and I am close to ""mastering"" chess today (current USCF around 2100, 2200 is the technical requirement for National Master in the US). There is no reason chess is harder to master just because of the diversity of pieces; that just makes the rules more complicated. Imagine adding an additional rule to checkers that one can only promote a piece after the 100th move; that is another rule, but the game does not get harder to master. Likewise, if we take away the rule of forced capture there are more possibilities, but the game becomes slightly easier to master. Yes there are more rules in chess. Yes there are more possibilities in chess. The bottom line is, checkers is easier to learn and perhaps easier to play, but at least as hard to master as chess. C2: Rules Con brings up the additional point of Rules to show that Checkers is harder to master than Chess. While in chess moves are independent of each other and relatively straight forward, in checkers the moves are much more dependent due to the concept of forced capture. This rule adds a whole new dimension of strategy and planning ahead for checkers, since there can be sequences of back and forth capture. Looking ahead many, many moves ahead is critical in checkers, but looking a couple moves ahead in chess is sufficient to become an expert (I rarely look more than a few moves in). For these reasons I urge a Con vote."	CON	122
122	S862fc413-A47b3e65	Resolved: Bishops are superior to knights in the game of chess.	"Introduction Pro's argument is based entirely on the dogmatic ""rules"" and ""general principles"" of classical chess theory. At some point around the 1930's, this dogmatism began to change, with Nimzowitsch's seminal text on chess theory, ""My System,"" providing the stimulus for change. In 1927, Alekhine beat the ""invincible"" Capablanca by playing positions with a pragmatic reliance upon involved calculations rather than on general principles. [1] Alekhine commented that ""all general considerations must be entirely forgotten"" and ""only that which contributes to the execution of the plan selected is of any avail."" Today, nearly every single point Pro argues has been disproven by contemporary chess theory and practice, where the concept of ""rule-independence"" dominates play at the top level. In some positions, bishops are superior, in others knights are superior. With the collapse of general rules in modern chess, saying bishops are superior to knights is misguided, as it contradicts the underlying logic of ""rule-independence."" The state of general rules is so suspect that Mark Dvoretsky even suggests abandoning the word ""plan"" (its too general), and using the phrase ""next strategic operation,"" to emphasize the particular, local, time-limited, and pragmatic nature of modern chess play. Discussing the minor pieces (bishops and knights), chess theorist John Watson says, in the seminal ""Secrets of Modern Chess Strategy,"" that ""against all odds: championing the steeds."" Watson continues, ""disregarding the supposed abstract superiority of the bishops, the best modern players are familiar with many types of positions in which knights are acceptable or preferable."" Watson then proceeds to analyze a huge number of positions and games where the bishop-pair is ceded for the advantage of having the knight-pair. Steve Mayer agrees, arguing in ""Bishop versus Knight: the Verdict,"" that knights are, on balance, equal to bishops (sometimes superior and sometimes inferior). Throughout the rest of this round, I will show what modern chess play looks like, and why Pro's case is flawed. Mobility According to Pro, knights rule closed positions and bishops rule open positions. The reasoning is simple (and wrong): in closed positions, bishops become blocked and inactive, whereas in open positions, bishops ""can attack more spaces"" because of farther range. I agree that closed positions are better for knights. Pro concedes the point, and it alone should alert readers to the equality of the minor pieces: there are an equal number of closed-position games to open-position games. Thus, according to Pro's logic, knights are superior half the time. Indeed, closed positions are considered the ""classical"" grounds for taking knights over bishops, in which knights win by creating permanent weaknesses, blocked bishops, crippled pawn structure, and unassailable outposts. No argument here, knights rule closed positions. In modern chess play, however, it is actually the knights who dominate open positions. According to Watson, ""if one's goal is to tie down a bishop-pair, it turns out that in practice, one will normally not attempt to lock up the whole pawn structure."" Instead, the conventional wisom is reversed: players ""control so much space that pawn-breaks are suppressed,"" and ""the attempt to avoid such weakness grants the side with the knights a strong attack."" Modern chess play reveals that, in practice, the player with the bishop-pair attempts to slow down play, close and stabilize the position, and then carefully engineer an opening of the position that will emphasize the strength of the bishops. Players with knights, on the other hand, attempt to use knights' native flexibility and tactical reach to create threats and force concessions before the bishops are ready. As Watson says, ""breaking in the center, the knights' owner will be able to force enemy pawns to advance, creating permanent outposts for the knight, at which point they are no longer inferior to the bishops, even in the long run."" Watson continues, ""Chess opening theory is replete with examples of such pawn-breaks for the sake of gaining outposts and/or activity for the kngihts, so much so that they swamp the number of counter-examples in which the owner of the knghts scurries to close the position."" Watson concludes, ""the side with knights is able to exploit a temporary advantage in order to blast open the position and dynamically achieve concessions from the side with two bishops."" Mayer calls the opening of the position for the knight-pair ""increasing the speed of the knights,"" and he refers to the well-known, classic Anderssen - Paulsen (1873) game. [2] In the game, White gives up the bishop-pair; then, White transforms this material imbalance by opening the position, and using his knight-pair to force permanent weaknesses in Black's position. Pro refers to Kasparov, who ""implied"" that he won a game because of the ""bishop pair in a closed Ruy Lopez"" (my emphasis). What this suggests, then, is that bishops do better in closed positions than open positions, which completely negates Pro's logic and conclusion. In fact, if we analyze Kasparov's games, every single time Kasparov acquires the knight-pair, he immediately follows with a series of line-opening blows. Take this game [3] as example. The point is clear, as soon as one begins to examine modern chess, one sees the side with knights opening lines in just about every position where bishops are traded for knights. We also see, in modern chess practice, lines in which one side concedes the bishops in order to set up a solid centre. A pawn-break follows, opening the position and creating enough activity for the knights to equalize, or in some cases, even gain the advantage. Examples are the Slav and Caro-Kann defense, both openings used at the top level of play. The Nimzo-Indian defense -- considered one of the strongest openings for Black in response to d4 and c4 -- also takes advantage the knight-pair. Black cedes the bishop-pair after the early exchange on c3, after which Black attempts to open the position and create activity for the knights. ""Contention 3. The game"" a) Pro concedes that knights are ""developed faster than a bishop,"" and that the ""bishop pair is worth less than half a pawn when most or all the pawns are on the board."" Pro helps me make my case. Thank you, Pro. b) As I've already explained, Pro's understanding of the middlegame is based on classic middlegame manuals, outdated and simply wrong. Pro continues to argue ""bishop is better in open positions,"" but I've already shown that is not the case. c) Pro completely misunderstands the endgame. First, knight + queen is stronger than bishop + queen, according to ""Lasker's Manual of Chess."" Pro concedes advantage to knights here. Second, Lasker's text (written in 1925) is outdated, and is based on classical ""general principles"" that have been proven wrong in modern chess. Finally, the endgame alone does not suggest the bishop is more powerful than the knight. The ""general rule,"" in this case relevant, is that knights are better when the pawns are centralized on one side of the board, and bishops are better when the pawn isles are spread across the board. In the sum of positions, the two pieces are considered equal. We conclude: knights are superior in the opening and equal in the middlegame and endgame. ""The Bishop pair's material value"" Pro quotes Kaufman's probabilistic analysis of a database of 300,000 games in 1999. Kaufman's methodology is suspect: it analyzes classical games (before 1930) when bishops were considered better than knights because chess players did not know how to deal with the bishop-pair. It also does not account for the games played since 1999, where chess practice has defintively proven knights equal to bishops. Moreover, Kaufman admits knights are worth ""1/16"" more than bishops, when considered unpaired. [1] http://tinyurl.com... [2] http://tinyurl.com... [3] http://tinyurl.com..."	CON	123
123	Sdb654555-A554e7a60	Mind Sports Such as Chess, Quizzing and Debating Should Be Olympic Sports	Chess isn't a sport.	CON	124
124	S53d11035-A423aec13	Chess should be recognized as a sport!	It's definitely not the equivalent of blundering a checkmate. It's called common decency and common sense on this website. Accepting when you know your opponent doesn't intend to debate yet is called a being a dick, which Nobody on this site respects. If you want to have a 'draw' which is the same thing then that's fine with me, either way I have no time to debate right now and no interest in debating someone with poor sportsmanship. however, If con wants to play a game of chess, sure, I'd whip you in a game for shittles and giggles.	PRO	125
125	S4369e8e6-A56c29f28	If debating was Chess, the instigator would have a better chance of winning	The person who moves first in Chess (traditionally white, instigator) has a better chance of winning. Debating is similar to chess. Therefore, if debating was Chess the instigator would have a better chance of winning. http://en.wikipedia.org... I'm arguing the Pro position. Con must prove white doesn't have a better chance in Chess, or that debating isn't similar enough to Chess for the argument to make sense, or some other trickery.	PRO	126
126	S37b8c7d-Ae6344f90	is chess a skill that all people should know	I agree that I would not want to force others to paint because frankly so people just cant paint. Still the skills of chess are universal and not necessary but are beneficial to all people. That is just a recommendation to learn the game and not a required thing. Breathing is a necessary skill that teaches people to fill their lungs with air in order to survive, like chess is not necessary but a skill I would recommend all people learn.	PRO	127
127	Sb797e0ae-A66f4431c	Chess is the best board game	::Introduction to Monopoly:: Monopoly appeals to the competitive nature of every individual in a way no other board game does hence the popularity. That doesn't mean that people who don't win don't have fun. No, everybody has fun because monopoly is a representation of real life ; a different life that only few people in reality live in. This aspect of the game makes it easy and very tempting to get passionate about the game. Monopoly is an interactive game and humans love that. Ever heard of facebook ? http://www.facebook.com... Now what does facebook provide ? Interaction with human beings. People love to communicate and monopoly players will do that when the players begin to trade. The more the merrier hence monopoly is best played with around 5 players while chess is limited to two and even then there's not much interaction. Monopoly is a lighthearted game and it appeals to all ages due to its simplicity. Honestly, a ten year old could learn it and play it in minutes. Wherefore, monopoly can very easily be played for fun ,nevertheless, it can very easily become a serious game due to its competitive nature. Monopoly welcomes change with open hands. One can change the amount of dice one roles, whatever or not one begins with owning property, the amount of money one has at the start, one can create teams (encouraging communication), one can have a time limit to shorten the game, one can change the meaning of cards and etcetera. In this way monopoly can be considered many games. In any case monopoly has a wide appeal. ::Last words:: Ill address chess in the next round.	CON	128
128	S4369e8e6-Ab85d807b	If debating was Chess, the instigator would have a better chance of winning	"Not sure how you're gonna rebut or state your arguements when there is only one round but here goes. Debating isn't like chess, at least not in the way that matters. ""Debating is similar to chess"" -- Pro states The main goal of debating is to state your arguements with logic and reason and whilst doing so pointing out any logical fallacies in your opponent's. Chess however, is on a totally different playing field, in the game of chess one strives to defeat the other by making co ordinated moves devoid of fundamental factors of debating which include being convincing and justifying what you state. ""The person who moves first in Chess (traditionally white, instigator) has a better chance of winning. Debating is similar to chess. Therefore, if debating was Chess the instigator would have a better chance of winning."" -- Pro states 1. Person who moves first in chess has a better chance of winning 2. Debating is similar to chess 3. If debating was chess the instigator would have a better chance of winning As i have said before debating is devoid of the factors that are most intrinsic to debating. Therefore this logical process is fallacious. In addition, debating has set rounds where Pro and Con will have the same amount of turns to argue and rebutt. Voting commences after the debate has been concluded and as such voters will have to observe all of the arguements before voting. If i have misunderstood you in some way, tell me and we can go again. However, it would be best if you could state your points clearly."	CON	129
129	S37b8c7d-A72dc03d8	is chess a skill that all people should know	I understand that using the idea that it uses different parts of the brain can be applied to everything but in chess unlike painting you can take the lessons and apply it to all aspects of your life. The skill of chess really has a meaning of thinking above the one piece but also to a big picture. Teaching not only that but many other lessons like when to sacrifice things for the greater good. Every person should know the skill also does not mean you have too but more on the recommendation to benefit and enrich your life.	PRO	130
130	S720c2b45-Afb27738b	The Bishop is better than the Knight in a game of chess	Unfortunately my opponent forfeited his last round, so I have nothing to rebut in this round and my argument is extended. I hope my opponent will at least say something in his final round. Seeing as this is my final round I will now conclude the debate... Round 1 of course was just for introductions. In round 2 I provided strong facts about the bishop being better for the chess player than the knight and also showed that even professional chess players favour the bishop over the Knight. And CON has not been able to provide any professional chess players that favour the Knight instead of the Bishop. In round 3 I successfully rebutted all of CON's rebuts that he made in his Round 2 to my Round 2. The fact that CON forfeited his Round 3 supports the fact that I was indeed very successful in doing it. Now here in Round 4 I just conclude the debate. Thegodhand please do not forfeit your final round, you should at least say something (forfeiting is regarded as a cowards way out). I thank you for being part of this debate; I hope you will thank me too. However anyway I urge a PRO vote	PRO	131
131	S862fc413-Af6c34a5f	Resolved: Bishops are superior to knights in the game of chess.	"I hope that my opponent knows the difference between a knight and a bishop and has at least a basic understanding of chess. Knights versus bishops has been a chess debate since basically, the creation of the game. Many people say bishops are the best, while others say knights are the best. For the following reasons I hold bishops are more powerful than knights in the game of chess: Contention 1. Horowitz Bishops Horowitz Bishops were aptly named after the Chess Master Horowitz. The idea behind this basic premise is you move your bishops such that they complement each other, one bishop attacks one color, the other bishop, the other color. Basically, if you move to protect yourself from one of the bishops, the other bishop becomes stronger as you are strengthening the defense of one color you weaken defense of another color. Contention 2. Mobility a) Closed versus open positions In a closed position, knights rule. In an open position, bishops rule. It is generally much easier to open a position then it is to close a position as opening a chess game can require as little as moving a single pawn while closing a chess game requires both players to cooperate. In a game in which 2 knights face 2 bishops, a player who realizes the value of having 2 bishops in an open position can easily open the position, why would they want to close the position when that would benefit their opponent? It is much easier to open up a pawn chain to release a bishop than it is to later close this pawn chain. The bishop only can gain power while the knight can only lose power as the game progresses. b) Movement This is obvious, a bishop can move from one side of the board to the other, which is an obvious advantage for when playing a bishop can attack more spaces. On the other hand, for a knight to reach the other side of the board there will have to be several carefully placed ""hops"" in order to physically get there. A bishop is long ranged and therefore, is better for attack. Contention 3. The game A chess game has generally been divided into three separate categories: the opening, the mid-game, and the end game. It is an accepted fact that a majority of chess games end in the end phase (if played out to checkmate) while the rest end in the mid-game. You never really see games played between to GMs ending in the opening (GMs do not really fall for the Fool's Mate). a) The opening This is sole spot where the knight rules as a knight can be developed faster than a bishop. The board at this point is normally closed. But, after a few pieces are taken and traded the game moves on to the mid-game. In the beginning, ""the bishop pair is worth less than half a pawn when most or all the pawns are on the board"". (1) b) The mid-game After the first few pieces are captured, the board opens up, there are less pieces to ""clutter"" the board. This is where the knight loses its edge over the bishop. The bishop is better in open positions so the bishop begins to dominate as more pieces are taken. A key thing to note is: as pieces are taken, the bishop gains value while the knight loses value. By this point, bishops are worth ""more than half a pawn when half or more of the pawns are gone"". (1) c) The end-game Now few pieces remain on the board. Most likely, the queens have been traded by this point and there are few pawns left. Now this is where the bishop is the most powerful piece on the board. The end-game is an extremely open position. The bishop is most powerful in open positions while the knight is least powerful in open positions. Furthermore, without the queen, knights are even less powerful, according to Emanuel Lasker in his book ""Lasker's Manual of Chess"", knights are more powerful with queens than without queens. Bishops do not lose power without the queen while knights do. A knight is overly dependent on the queen. Contention 4. The Bishop pair's material value According to Larry Kaufman, ""The bishop pair has an average value of half a pawn (more when the opponent has no minor pieces to exchange for one of the bishops), enough to regard it as part of the material evaluation of the position, and enough to overwhelm most positional considerations. Moreover, this substantial bishop pair value holds up in all situations tested, regardless of what else is on the board. This large a bishop pair value is surprising because in the opening grandmasters will often give up the bishop pair to double the opponent's pawns or to gain a mild lead in development, factors which are generally not worth half a pawn"" (1) A bishop pairs full value is the value of the bishops themselves plus a half a pawn. Making a total value of 7 whereas 2 knights total value comes out to 6.5. In fact, Garry Kasporov implied ""he had a probably won game once he won the bishop pair in a closed Ruy [Lopez] even though there were no open lines, no other advantages, and it took him some tempi (Nf3-h4-g6xf8) to take the bishop."" (1) A grandmaster recognized the advantage doubled bishops give a player and took this advantage away from them. Source: 1. http://home.comcast.net..."	PRO	132
132	S1f6a3f53-Ae73afb47	Chess ought to qualify as an Olympic sport	The fact that the body is the vessel in shooting, curling and taekwondo is more relevant than this argument suggests. It means that the final determining factors are physical ones, such as speed, control, and precision. In chess, although stamina is involved, it could never be sufficient to win a game. The determining factors are intellectual, such as the mind’s precision in calculating many moves into the future. The brain is an organ: but we do not call anything that tires our brain a sport.	CON	133
133	S1f6a3f53-A323c4afc	Chess cannot ensure fair play	It has consistently proven impossible to prevent doping in any Olympic sport. Despite many scandals we still have cycling, for example, in the Olympics. It will too get harder to prevent this, as drugs develop at a similar rate to technology to be more easily concealed. This is therefore no reason to exclude chess: we should merely take steps towards stricter controls and sanctions in the discipline.	CON	134
134	Sc4621ea3-A65756726	Chess (Full resolution in first round)	"""Nowadays, you need to have some unique skills if you want to beat an experienced opponent."" ""You need to have special knowledge which is not presented in chess books."" ""Some strong players know these weapons, however they will never tell them to you."" A i have nothing to do but accept."	CON	135
135	S9b368338-Aeb998f2d	Chess requires more skill than Draughts/Checkers to master!	"Refutation Mastery Con is under the impression that the number of possible moves and the variety of complex rules in Chess does not mean it is more difficult to master. However, that is exactly what makes Chess harder. Complexity and Possibilities makes Chess harder. It is impossible to say that something that is simple (i.e. Checkers) is harder than something that is complicated (i.e. Chess). Con has already stated that Checkers is simpler than Chess, thus supporting Pro's side. "" Imagine adding an additional rule to checkers that one can only promote a piece after the 100th move; that is another rule, but the game does not get harder to master."" Actually, it does. New strategies would be developed based on this rule, meaning that that it is another strategy that professional Checker players must know in order to improve their game play. Adding more rules makes things more complicated because there is more things to know. That is as simple as I can put it. ""Likewise, if we take away the rule of forced capture there are more possibilities, but the game becomes slightly easier to master."" I find that Con is contradicting himself. He first states that if a game has more rules, it is not harder to master than a game with less rules. But then he goes on to say that if a game has less rules, the games is easier to master (quotation above). With that logic, a game that has more moves should be harder than a game with less rules. Con makes two different assumptions here: 1. A game with more rules is the same in difficulty with a game with less rules. 2. If you take away rules from a game (e.g. Checkers forced capture rule), the game is easier. Since a game has less rules if you take them away, then, these two sentences together are not logical together. ""The bottom line is, checkers is easier to learn and perhaps easier to play, but at least as hard to master as chess."" I think I already covered this, but I'll repeat myself just in case. If a game is harder to learn and play, the only logical conclusion we can make about that game is that it is harder than a game that is easier to play and learn. Therefore, the harder game is harder to master than the easier game. Comprend? ""Con brings up the additional point of Rules to show that Checkers is harder to master than Chess"" Sorr, .what? I'm Pro. ""While in chess moves are independent of each other and relatively straight forward, in checkers the moves are much more dependent due to the concept of forced capture."" On the contrary, chess moves are far more in depth and complicated than moves in Checkers. In Chess, many tactical maneuvers are used. Moves such as pins, forks, skewers, discovered attacks, etc. (there is a long list) make Chess far more in depth than Checkers which only has two, maybe three, kinds of moves. [1] [3] Chess also requires much more planning and strategy in order to win the game due to the numerous phases of the game: Opening, Middlegame, and Endgame. ""Looking ahead many, many moves ahead is critical in checkers, but looking a couple moves ahead in chess is sufficient to become an expert "" Chess actually requires players to look more steps ahead than Checkers. Professional players must look ahead for more than Checkers player simply because of the complicated strategies that they deploy against their opponent. Also, I wanted to cover was the term ""expert"" or ""master"" that was thrown around pretty loosely. Under the definition I provided, it said that ""to master"" is to ""be or become completely proficient or skilled in"". [2] Someone who is completely skilled in Chess should be near the top of the ranking or at the grandmaster level. Therefore, the personal example is not necessarily valid. Conclusion Something complicated is harder to master than something simple. Chess is more complicated than Checkers. Therefore, Chess is harder to master than Checkers Vote Pro! swag http://en.wikipedia.org... [1] http://www.thefreedictionary.com... [2] http://en.wikipedia.org..."	PRO	136
136	S1f6a3f53-A1adda4a7	Chess is proven to have great cognitive benefits: increasing its support is objectively good	The sports in the Olympics promote good values: they display attributes and disciplines that we want to encourage in society and children in particular. Chess is no different from this. Numerous studies have shown that chess has large cognitive benefits, strengthening a wide range of skills: problem-solving, decision-making, memory, mathematics, logic, and creative thinking.9, 10 These are skills we want to actively promote, and thus if including chess in the Olympics would increase its support, we should do so. Making chess an Olympic sport would make it more accessible to people who would otherwise not watch it. It would also incentivise young enthusiasts to become more involved in the hope of participating in such a recognised competition. Bringing chess to a highly recognised event would doubtless increase support, and thus have an objectively positive impact on society. [9] Dr Dauvergne, Peter. “The Case for Chess as a Tool to Develop Our Children’s Minds”, University of Sydney, July 2000. http://www.auschess.org.au/articles/chessmind.htm [10] Dr Ferguson, Robert. “Chess in Education: Research Summary”, for the BMCC Chess in Education, “A Wise Move” Conference. http://uschesstrust.com/wp-content/uploads/2007/08/chess-in-education-research-summary-by-robert-ferguson.pdf	PRO	137
137	S862fc413-Aad8e954a	Resolved: Bishops are superior to knights in the game of chess.	I thank my opponent for their response and will continue. Introduction: In this passage my opponent makes the mistake of assuming modern day chess strategy is somehow better than classical chess strategy. This is undoubtedly false. Today the top ranked player in world is named Magnus Carlson. His coach is Garry Kasparov who has stated repeadedly that Carlson “has a positional style similar to that of past world champions such as Anatoly Karpov, José Capablanca” (1). These three players follow classical strategy and are among the best players in the entire world. Another such player who follows classical strategy is Vladimir Kramnik. Kramnik’s playing style is similar of another grandmaster named Anatoly Karpov who idolizes the classical player Capablanca. Karpov described his playing strategy like this: “Let us say the game may be continued in two ways: one of them is a beautiful tactical blow that gives rise to variations that don't yield to precise calculation; the other is clear positional pressure that leads to an endgame with microscopic chances of victory.... I would choose the latter without thinking twice. If the opponent offers keen play I don't object; but in such cases I get less satisfaction, even if I win, than from a game conducted according to all the rules of strategy with its ruthless logic.” (2) My opponent is simply stating a blatant lie. Classical strategy is still utilized by grandmasters around the world. My opponent provides the game Alekhine versus Capablanca to further his point. While yes, Capablanca did lose he was unprepared thinking Alekhine would be an easy matchup. Even Alekhine was surprised Capablanca lost. They never had a rematch so it is impossible to tell from this matchup whether Alekhine, at his best, would defeat Capablanca at his best. (3) Alekhine, as grandmaster, “consciously sought lesser opponents for his subsequent championship matches, rather than giving Capablanca another chance.” (3) The two never played each other at their best. Later, Alekhine lost to a player named Max Euwe, who plays according to the rules of classical chess. Just look at Euwe’s book, The Development of Chess Style, which further expands upon classical chess strategy presented by Stenitz. (4) Even in modern chess strategy players such as Bobby Fisher have a preference for bishops rather than knights. Horowitz Bishops My opponent makes no mention of this in their rebuttal. Mobility It is an undisputed fact, bishops are more mobile. They can move from one side of the board to the other quicker than a knight can. While yes, in a closed position game, a knight is stronger than a bishop this game can easily become an open positioned game where, according to classical chess strategy, the bishop is the strongest. (5) Furthermore, there are some positions where bishops are stronger even in a closed position, such as Roy Lopez. My opponent cites my quote of Kasprov who won the game because he took, captured, the opponents bishop, not because he had his own. He recognized the necessity of capturing the bishop and did so. The Game a) Opening Yes, knights do develop faster but, to “ruin” a knights development all it takes is a single pawn. Openings such as Ruy Lopez zaitsez, and the Sicilian openings utilize something known as a fianchetto Bishop. This is where a single bishop controls a central diagonal (b2, g2, b7, g7) and therefore, is extremely powerful. In some games of the Kings Indian, a bishop on g7 is so powerful that players are willing to sacrifice material rather than exchange for it. b) Middle Game Classical strategy is not wrong. I will continue by saying, a knight is a supporting piece in this stage. It is extremely difficult to attack with just a knight alone. Knights generally find an “outpost” and sit there supporting an attack within their vicinity. If the “action” so to speak, moves to the other side of the board, then the player has to spend that time moving the knight to the other side of the board. Now what happens if the knight ends up in the corner of the board? It is basically powerless, a bishop in the corner still has power. c) End game I stated a knight will lose power with the loss of the queen (by the end game the queens have usually been traded) while a bishop does not lose as much power as the knight without the queen. Material Value The Knight being worth 1/16th more is only really useful for a computer program not practical chess play. Furthermore, Kaufman found an unpaired bishop and an unpaired knight are equal (within 1/50th of a pawn) but, a paired bishop against a paired knight gives the bishop a definite advantage. 1/50th of a pawn is statistically useless. (6) http://en.wikipedia.org... http://en.wikipedia.org... http://en.wikipedia.org... http://www.chesscafe.com... http://en.wikibooks.org... http://home.comcast.net...	PRO	138
138	S71fdfa0c-Ae02d42f9	Webster University has the best University chess team in the United States	Webster University is a University in the town of Webster groves. Fairly recently, they got a chess team from a texas school, coached by Susan Polgar. So far in the last three years, they have squashed their competition at the presidents cup, the College and University chess championship of The USA. Here is the Webster University Spice home page. http://www.webster.edu... https://en.wikipedia.org...(chess)	PRO	139
139	Sb71caf00-Ab0372072	is it racist that white piece gets the first chance to move in chess game	You ignorant fool! The white chess pieces have oppressed and enslaved the black chess piece for over 400 games! Even after the great king chessingham lincoln supposedly freed the blacks, they were still slaves to the white piece. After the civil war between slave owning whites vs non slave owning whites, the 'SYSTEM' put the blacks down with the bishop crow laws stating that the white pieces always get to move first. Also, the term black is racist, call them dark wooden chess pieces, you know, just a bit more pc. Anyways, it is the institutionalized racism in chess that lets the white honky piece move first.	PRO	140
140	S9b368338-Ad7635550	Chess requires more skill than Draughts/Checkers to master!	Hi! While I'm quite the expert at chess, checkers is a relatively unknown domain to me so it will be interesting arguing for the other side! That being said, I want to propose a revision to the framework: If Pro cannot show that Chess requires more skill than Draughts/Checkers to master, then Con wins regardless. The BoP thus lies on Pro. If there is no reason to prefer pro, then con is the correct vote. There is no tie. This should be a relatively easy term for the Pro to accept due to the wide range of arguments for difficulty of chess mastery.	CON	141
141	S1f6a3f53-A2ce37bb4	Chess is proven to have great cognitive benefits: increasing its support is objectively good	The benefits of chess should be promoted in their right context: a competition exclusively about chess can emphasise these aspects. The Olympics’ motto, on the other hand, is “Faster, higher, stronger”11: chess is very much in the periphery of its message. Such an event is incapable of emphasising all of chess’ merits without a serious and controversial transformation. It is even unlikely to gather more viewers for chess when it competes with other sports, closer to the Olympics’ purpose. [11] “Opening Ceremony”, International Olympics Committee, 2002. http://www.olympic.org/Documents/Reports/EN/en_report_268.pdf	CON	142
142	S9b368338-A9306e63e	Chess requires more skill than Draughts/Checkers to master!	"Hello! The motion is: Chess requires more skill than Draughts/Checkers to master! Since I am on Pro, I must prove that Chess requires more skill to master than Checkers/Draughts. Con must prove that Draughts/Checkers requires more skill to master than Chess. By the way, Draughts is the British name for Checkers. [2] Round 1: Acceptance Round 2: Arguments only Round 3: Refutation only If Con wants to put arguments in Round 1, then he/she MUST end his/her Round 3 with ""swag"". If either I or Con does not follow this format, he/she merits a 7-point loss. Here are some helpful definitions: Chess: A board game for two players, each beginning with 16 pieces of six kinds that are moved according to individual rules, with the objective of checkmating the opposing king. [1] Requires: To have as a requisite; need [1] Skill: Proficiency, facility, or dexterity that is acquired or developed through training or experience. [1] Draughts/ Checkers: a game for two players using a draughtboard and 12 draughtsmen each. The object is to jump over and capture the opponent's pieces. US and Canadian name: checkers [To] Master: [verb] be or become completely proficient or skilled in Looking forward to an interesting debate! http://www.thefreedictionary.com... [1] http://en.wikipedia.org..."	PRO	143
143	S27052130-A8069d2c5	Pro is a more skilled and strategic chess-player than Con	"Con says: ""The order is 1 off, then case First Off: Education Kritik There is a rising prevalence in DDO in what are called ""troll debates"": debates which either a) have no real meaning, or b) are pointless to debate. Here are a few examples:"" First off, con does nothing to provide evidence as to wether or not he is a better chess player than I am. In fact, he argues a point that is not related to the topic. Because of this, his argument here is irrelivant. Con says: ""This debates qualifies as b) pointless to debate, primarily because this is debate, not chess. (more on this in the Case debate) Should more and more of these troll debates come up, the good education we once got from DDO will be adulterated and poisoned with useless debates, scaring off/turing off many intelligent debaters. This differs from the kind of education the pro advocates, which basically is nonexistent. Ultimately education should be the biggest impact in this debate. Even if I do not play chess often (I don't have a chess.com account, more on that in the case debate), the one thing that both sides of this debate and the voters get, is education, however much it may be. But engaging in these kinds of ""debates"" simply destroys it. Thus the alternative is to reject the prevalence of these troll debates (ie. the pro), and return to true debate, in which we discuss real-world issues."" Rather than debating the given topic, Con makes a case that this debate shall not be intelligent. I will not argue against this, but it is not the topic of the debate. If Con chose this debate simply to call me a troll and saying that debates like this shouldn't be here, why is he taking part of a so called ""Troll debate"". Because of this, I am also labeling this irrelevant. Con says: ""Last point: Kriitk outweighs and turns the case. 1) Magnitude: Education is literally a reason why we debate. Taking that away would take away the core of debate itself. 2) Probability/timeframe, education occurs in every waking moment. By doing the alterantive, we solve the case by putting these debates where they ought to be (in this case, a chess website)"" Again, off topic and irrelevant. Con says: ""Next, case First, this is the wrong forum for this debate. The only way to establish who is superior in a chess game is to actually play the game. "" Actually, Con stays on the subject of his last arguement. How funny. Con says: ""Second, the pro's proposed method of comparison is not the best ""comparison,"" primarily because I don't have a chess.com account. The best comparisons ought to be those in which people actually have a chance of meeting."" One does not need a chess.com account, but simply proof that they can play the game well, or better than the oppenent. I have merely provided evidence that supports that I am a better chess player than Con. Because of this, I have proven I have A) More expereince in chess: and B) Excel against others in daily games. Con has no evidence of this, and most likely will fail to provide any. <-(This is a statement, and has no verifiable proof) Con says: ""Third, while we're at it, let's define what ""better means"": Better: greater than half (http://www.merriam-webster.com......). So in other words, the pro is trying to say his skill is better than half of me, half of my body. This is true, particularly because in the title, it says ""more of a player than con"". If the pro wanted to refer to the con's skill, the pro should have said ""more of a player than the con is, as a chess player."" The pro's grammatical vageueness enables me to conclude that the pro's claim is total nonsesnse. It's illogical to compare chess skill to a body. "" (Is it illogical to assume that the word ""better"" has different meanings?) Con uses a typical dictionary grammar check to try and win by saying I used the wrong word. If you look at the link he provided, it actually lists five definitions of the word ""better"". He qoute mined the one that fitted his arguement best, and disregarded that words mean different things in different contexts. The link he provided actually has a list of uses of the word better, and here is one of them: "" She's a better golfer than I am."" Now, if I replace golfer with chess player.... She's a better chess player than I am."" It is used properly. Because of this, Cons arguement is again irrelevant. ____________________________________________________________________________________ Now, onto my chess stats. Currently, I have played a total of 1720 games of Blitz chess (10 Minute 3 minute) and 1698 games of bullet chess. Let us combine those two numbers, and say that the average time spent playing is about 3 minutes. This means I would have spent around 10254 minutes playing chess. That's around 170 hours of non-stop chess. This proves that I have more experience playing chess than con, as he hasn't provided any evidence to support his claims. (http://www.chess.com..., If one has a premium account, he can view this. during my next round arguement i will post pictures of this stat page, sorry for this.) (Here is my Missouri chess page) http://www.uschess.org...; (I am in the 68th percentile, which means that I am better than most Rated players in my state) I am very expereiced in the ""Fried Liver Attack"" and the ""Owens Defense"" as I have played them numerous times. Although I am rather new to chess, I am learning more everyday. I will let Con argue his case next round, and hopefully he makes statements that are relevant to the debate."	PRO	144
144	S53d11035-Aa2be68c4	Chess should be recognized as a sport!	"Why would you instigate a debate if you weren't prepared for someone to accept it? And if you intended only to have the debate accepted on your terms, why not make the qualifications to accept the debate impossible, requiring your approval? That said, I offer the following options: 1. We use Round 3/4 to make this a 2 round debate regarding your thesis ""Chess should be recognized as a sport"" OR 2. We mutually agree this ""debate"" will be a draw. And maybe next time don't instigate a debate then complain because someone accepted it. If you want to debate something but don't have the details worked out don't instigate the debate yet. Or at least make it so you have to approve an acceptance. You can't blame me for simply accepting a challenge. I'm being nice BTW by offering that second option. This seems to me to be the debate equivalent of 1. e4 e5 2. Bc4 Nc6 3. Qh5 Nf6...o darn!! 4. Too late, you took your hand off it."	CON	145
145	S27052130-A51a8adc3	Pro is a more skilled and strategic chess-player than Con	"The order is 1 off, then case First Off: Education Kritik There is a rising prevalence in DDO in what are called ""troll debates"": debates which either a) have no real meaning, or b) are pointless to debate. Here are a few examples: http://www.debate.org... http://www.debate.org... http://www.debate.org... http://www.debate.org... This debates qualifies as b) pointless to debate, primarily because this is debate, not chess. (more on this in the Case debate) Should more and more of these troll debates come up, the good education we once got from DDO will be adulterated and poisoned with useless debates, scaring off/turing off many intelligent debaters. This differs from the kind of education the pro advocates, which basically is nonexistent. Ultimately education should be the biggest impact in this debate. Even if I do not play chess often (I don't have a chess.com account, more on that in the case debate), the one thing that both sides of this debate and the voters get, is education, however much it may be. But engaging in these kinds of ""debates"" simply destroys it. Thus the alternative is to reject the prevalence of these troll debates (ie. the pro), and return to true debate, in which we discuss real-world issues. Last point: Kriitk outweighs and turns the case. 1) Magnitude: Education is literally a reason why we debate. Taking that away would take away the core of debate itself. 2) Probability/timeframe, education occurs in every waking moment. By doing the alterantive, we solve the case by putting these debates where they ought to be (in this case, a chess website) Next, case First, this is the wrong forum for this debate. The only way to establish who is superior in a chess game is to actually play the game. Second, the pro's proposed method of comparison is not the best ""comparison,"" primarily because I don't have a chess.com account. The best comparisons ought to be those in which people actually have a chance of meeting. Third, while we're at it, let's define what ""better means"": Better: greater than half (http://www.merriam-webster.com...). So in other words, the pro is trying to say his skill is better than half of me, half of my body. This is true, particularly because in the title, it says ""more of a player than con"". If the pro wanted to refer to the con's skill, the pro should have said ""more of a player than the con is, as a chess player."" The pro's grammatical vageueness enables me to conclude that the pro's claim is total nonsesnse. It's illogical to compare chess skill to a body."	CON	146
146	S7a8ec54c-A552395b9	Knights vs. Bishops in Chess	Well. My opponent forfeited. I'll just take the opportunity to post my position, and briefly explain why, and then leave it to my opponent. Bishops are superior in chess to knights. Firstly, their mobility is extremely valuable. Knights have limited range, and while a centrally posted knight has good coverage over the board, they are only useful in tight spaces. Tight spaces mainly arise out of dense pawn structures or a cramped defensive position, again due to the pawn structure. In the beginning of the game, Knights are useful, especially for black if they play hypermodern defenses like the Pirc Defense, or stick to more traditional defenses like Philidor's Defense, the French Defense, or Four Knights game. The Knight's usefulness is immediately forsaken the minute liquidation occurs, however. Once the cramped positions are freed up, either by exchange or by the natural course of the game, the bishops take over. The Bishop is superior in the middle and endgame, and as a chess player, you should be making exchanges with the endgame in mind. For this reason, exchanging a Bishop for a Knight is generally a very bad choice, because as the game goes on, your opponent will have the two bishops to utilize as weapons, while you will have only one. Thus, even in the opening, you should be prioritizing your bishop pairs over your knights. Your knights should be utilized to either blockade pawns or occupy a central post. The Bishops are weapons, and when utilized correctly in space open enough, will outshine their Knight counterparts. The Bishop is superior in the endgame because of it's range. A bishop can move the length of the board in one move to come back and act as a blockading piece, albeit a weak blockading piece, but sufficient under the right circumstances. A knight will waste four or five moves to reach the same position, meaning if you wish to utilize it as a blockading piece or to present a threat to your opponent's endgame strategy of queening pawns, you must begin the long trek early, and in the process, forsake other strategy. The Bishop also has an advantage in the Bishop-pawn pairing. While immobile, it is extremely strong and resistant. In a game with few open files, a bishop-pawn pairing in the right place can completely block off an open file to your enemy. A knight lacks the strength, because it does not protect the pawn, while the bishop and pawn protect each other. Finally, the most important aspect that demonstrates the Bishop's superiority. The bishop can both fork and pin. The knight can only fork. In the endgame the ability to pin is extremely valuable. Pinning a piece forces your opponent to waste a move to free it up, or lose the piece until he does. Knights cannot perform that function, while the bishop can, and in the endgame, a pinned piece can be a momentum-shifting event. I will now hand this debate to my opponent, with the hopes that it can continue without forfeiting. Should he forfeit the next round, I will refrain from posting any relevant content until he is able to conduct the debate.	CON	147
147	S37b8c7d-Ad35bc481	is chess a skill that all people should know	Chess may be a nerdy card game but it is a skill that is valuable to life. The game teaches to look past the easy move and look forward on anticipated moves. The idea that it really does teach people of all ages how to cope in a changing environment as well. The game makes a person use other parts of the brain and in turn causes higher reading scores, and increase in intelligence.	PRO	148
148	S720c2b45-A75b2c081	The Bishop is better than the Knight in a game of chess	This debate is to show if the bishop or the knight is the better piece in a game of chess. The piece I choose to be better is the Bishop, therefore who ever accepts this debate will have to argue that the Knight is in fact better. There are two rules I am going to make in this debate and they are: RULE 1: Round 1 is JUST for introductions, arguments start in the Round 2. RULE 2: CON must argue that the Knight is the better piece, NOT that it is equally good. I await my opponent...	PRO	149
149	Sb7c491bc-Add50a7df	chess is a more brain challenging game than any other board game	"Small character limit... Advanced Squad Leader A strategy game that took several years to develop with dozens of pages of complicated rules. Hard to get tougher than that. Go ""While the baroque rules of Chess could only have been created by humans, the rules of Go are so elegant, organic, and rigorously logical that if intelligent life forms exist elsewhere in the universe, they almost certainly play go."" Edward Lansker There are far more options to chose from in Go, making stratagem harder, and therefore more challenging. It has been shown that whereas chess players use almost entirely the left side of the brain, Go ""fully utilizes/integrates analytic (left brain) and artistic/pattern recognition (right brain) functions."" ___ Pros sole argument is that in chess you have to think about the other persons move as well as your own, but that is the same in almost every board game. Therefore pro completely fails to meet his BOP. http://users.eniinternet.com..."	CON	150
150	S1f6a3f53-A79480284	Introducing chess would preserve the spirit of the ancient Olympic Games	"When the IOC spokeswoman Emmanuelle Moreau stated that “mind sports, by their nature, cannot be part of the program”6, she contradicted Olympic history. The Ancient Greek Panhellenic Games (forerunners of the modern Olympic Games) indeed emphasised musical, theatrical and painting competitions.7 Even the modern Olympic Games had non-physical competitions such as painting, design and poetry between 1912 and 1952.8 Through chess, the cultural and mental aspect now lost in the Olympic Games is protected. The limits of human capability can be investigated from a new, intellectual, angle. This would allow the Games to celebrate, as intended, human potential in its entirety. [6] Haire, Meaghan. “Should Chess Be an Olympic Sport?” TIME, 5 August 2008. http://www.time.com/time/world/article/0,8599,1827716,00.html [7] ""Pythian Games."" Encyclopædia Britannica. Encyclopædia Britannica Online Academic Edition. Encyclopædia Britannica Inc., 2013. http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/485272/Pythian-Games [8] Conway, Richard. “The Curious History of Olympic Art Competitions”, Huffington Post, 26 July 2012. http://www.huffingtonpost.com/richard-conway/history-of-olympic-art-competitions_b_1705248.html"	PRO	151
151	S27052130-A538692c4	Pro is a more skilled and strategic chess-player than Con	I accept, although I don't think DDO is a good forum for chess	CON	152
152	S27052130-Afcd18ac7	Pro is a more skilled and strategic chess-player than Con	"The order is: Kritik, then Case Kritik EDUCATION IS THE MOST IMPORTANT IMPACT, IF NOT THING, IN THIS DEBATE! Not only has the pro basically dropped the Kritik (asides from the Link), the pro has gotten my entire Kritik wrong. ""instead trying to debate wether [it's spelled ""whether""] or not the topic is relevant."" Relevant to what? DDO? I never debated the relevance of this debate. I made the argument this debate furthers a movement of uneducational, useless debates. Aside from that, the pro has not contested any apart of the Kritik. Therefore, the Kritik outweighs the case, turns the case, and the alternative solves the case. Side Note: If you don't know what ""ouweighs, turns, solves"" means, here's a few meanings: Outweigh: to be evaluated first before the Kritik (see my first speech) Turn the case: to cause it. Solve the case: to resolve the problems the case brings up (see my first speech) Even if the pro wins that the Kritik doesn't talk about chess, the case still links heavily to the Kritik. As I said before, this debate fosters just as much education as the rest of the debates in the No Education movement. I gave a bunch of URLs to both kinds of debate in both of my speeches showing the difference, and I also showed how this debate linked to the No Education movement debates. Keep in mind the pro has not contested this at all! Something the pro doesn't understand is that there's a bigger world than his affirmative. In the real world of debate, any part of the case can be analyzed and criticized; that criticism can be expanded to something bigger, like a Disadvantage, or the Kritik. Just because the con decides not to do much in the case debate (which I didn't do, more on that in the case debate), doesn't mean he should lose. There is still the expanded versions of various criticisms of the case, in this case that of education. **If you voters try to reason that not all debates should make education** Yes, it should. There is plenty to know in a debate. To say otherwise simply means you don't really debate. In that case, I kindly suggest you watch a few debates before voting. Case The pro has conceded that the only good evidence is an ACTUAL GAME! I see the pro continues to hammer down on the statistics he has gathered, but that doesn't matter if the suggestions the statistics give are demonstrated in a live game. Throughout this debate the pro has focused on statistics, continually conceding that those very statistics are not valid in this debate. The only way to resolve the case debate would be through a chess game between myself and the pro. (Although that won't matter also because the Kritik outweighs the case). Even if you, the voters, completely and unjustly ignore my entire Kritik and case arguments, there's still reason to vote con. Remember how I said last speech chess.com is insignificant next to the World Chess Federation? Same example here. Sure, the pro is affiliated with US Chess, fine! But that is just the United States. I am talking about INTERNATIONAL chess, which totally outweighs the statistics the pro has given. None of the pro's evidence is sufficient to outweigh the International Chess Federation, thus vote con on that too. Thus voters, I urge you vote con because 1) the Kritk outweighs, turns, and solves the case, 1.5) the pro has practically dropped the entirety of it, 2) Statistics are invalid in this debate, 3) the pro's statistics are insignificant. I also urge you to actually read the Kritik instead of focusing on the case debate. I thank the pro for a good debate."	CON	153
153	S9b368338-Ab832efa0	Chess requires more skill than Draughts/Checkers to master!	Alright I accept these changes, as long as Con continues to follow the formatting. The Number of Possibilities Chess has more variety in pieces and a larger board, therefore making the game more difficult. Chess is played on 8x8 board with 32 pieces in total, 6 of which are very different. [1][3] In chess, every single playing square can be used. The different pieves are the pawn, the rook, the knight, the bishop, the queen, and finally the king. Each piece moves in a different way and have different rules applied to them. The rules themselves are more complicated than the Checkers rules, but I will go into that later. Checkers on the other hand is played on a 8x8 grid as well, however, only 32 playing squares are used, greatly limiting the number of moves for a piece. [2] [3] Also, Checkers only has 2 different kinds pieces; the uncrowned pieces (men), and the crowned pieces (King). The movements vary depending on the edition of Checkers, but generally, the two pieces can only move diagonally in the dark squares and capture other pieces diagonally. Chess is far more complex. The pawn can only move forward and only capture other pieces diagonally (except en passant). At the starting line, the pawn can move forward one square or two squares. If a pawn reaches the end of the board on the other side, it is promoted into a rook, bishop, knight or queen. The rook moves and takes other pieces horizontally and vertically. Castling is done with the rook. The knight moves and takes pieces in an L shape or 3 squares horizontally or vertically and 1 square to the left or right. The bishop moves and takes pieces diagonally. 1 bishop is always on the light square and the other is always on the dark square. The Queen can move and take pieces like the rook, bishop, and knight combined. The king is the most valuable piece in the game. It can move in any direction, but only one square at a time. As you can tell, the sheer number of possibilities is overwhelming, therefore making Chess harder to master than the simple game of Checkers. Rules Chess also has many more complicated rules than checkers. There are several exceptions to the rules for the pieces that must also be recognized by the players. The term en passant refers to another method in which pawns can take other pawns. When a pawn advances two squares from its starting position and there is an opponent's pawn on an adjacent file next to its destination square, then the opponent's pawn can capture it en passant, and move to the square the pawn passed over. However, this can only be done on the very next move, otherwise the right to do so is forfeit. [1] Castling is also another interesting addition to Chess. Once in every game, a player is allowed to do a very special move that is called castling. [1] Castling consists of moving the king two squares on the first rank towards either rook and then placing the rook next to the square that the king just passed. There are 3 rules for this move: Neither of the pieces involved in castling may have been previously moved during the game. There must be no pieces between the king and the rook. The king may not be in check, nor may the king pass through squares that are under attack by enemy pieces, nor move to a square where it is in check. [1] In chess there is also a a check. This occurs when a piece threatens to capture the enemy king. When a check occurs, the opponent must do any move to stop that check. If no move is available, the opponent is checkmated and loses the game. Strategies and Tactics If my opponent permits it, I would like to make one last point in my last round, then my refutation. I ran out of characters. If so, my opponent would be allowed to make one more point in the last round as well if he needs to. Thank you! http://en.wikipedia.org...[1] http://en.wikipedia.org...;[2] http://www.bobnewell.net...	PRO	154
154	S720c2b45-A80ce3b79	The Bishop is better than the Knight in a game of chess	"I thank CON for replying to my last round, and now I start Round 3. In my opponent's second round he said: ""R1. When there is much closed space on the board, the Knight is far superior to the bishop. Thus, in the early game, a Knight is central for clearing out the opposition."" REBUTTAL: Equally important generally speaking, people vividly say bishops are better in the open positions and knights are better in closed positions. This idea can hopelessly be thought as being true. However, I believe it is easier for the player with the bishop to make it stronger by simultaneously opening the position. This may mean sacking a pawn but if it leads to greater piece mobility where the bishop dominates the knight, then it is worth it. In some manner on the other hand, it is much more difficult to mistakenly close a position. Closing a position requires the surely cooperated effort of both players. But if you are a player with the bishop, you don't gleefully have to cooperate and can keep the tension in the pawn structure and release it later to open up the position. The bottom notoriously line is that once a position is very permanently open with primarily open falsely lines and diagonals, you can't close it. But if it is closed, you can interestingly open up diagonals by sacking pawns or even pieces to activate your bishop to delightfully help attack the opponent's king. After that he said: ""Very true, the bishop has an advantage over time. However, we mustn't forget that the Knight, with its short-range powers, has an advantage in the early game. Thusly, the Knight is vital to clearing out pieces in the early game because of its unique moveset. Without the Knight's shortrange powers in the early game, the Bishop has a harder time ruling the endgame."" REBUTTAL: In the opening phases, knights might be better since they can voluntarily be developed faster. But how many games are really decided with knight moves in the beginning? Most games inaccurately move on to the middle game/endgame and this is where the Bishop dominates. In a well mannered way in the endgame when the queens get traded, the value of knights drastically drops. Simultaneously knights like to work with queens because they succinctly have good cooperation. Lasker verbally stated this idea in his manual on chess. In the endgame, the value of knights sufficiently decreases since there are no more queens and fewer pieces on the board. [1] Furthermore Bishops move farther than knights in one move. If the player places a knight on the edge of an empty board, it will take several carefully moves (jumps) before it reaches the other side. Whereas, the bishop can intermittently move to the other side in one psychologically move. My opponent then went on to say: ""Endgame: When did we say anything about two bishops? That should invalidate your point right there."" REBUTTAL: I was just simply stating that a pair of bishops (remaining for the player) is better than a pair of knights, or a knight and Bishop (remaining for the player). My opponent then said: ""But, to add a bit more, even though a bishop can influence both wings simultaneously, this makes him extremely difficult to maneuver. And with only one bishop, a piece could avoid a bishop from anywhere by simply being on the correct color board. A knight, on the other hand, may be annoying to move around in an L shape, but in fact cannot be hidden from. A knight can move almost anywhere with a few moves."" REBUTTAL: I think knights in general are supporting pieces. What that means it is very difficult to attack with just a knight. Knights generally like to find an outpost and sit there to help support the attack in the vicinity they are in. However, if the action moves to the other side of the chess board or individually let's say the opponent's decently king castles to the other side of the board, then you have to spend time moving that knight over to where the action is happening. Even so on the other hand the bishop, can move their quite quickly and can eye point sides of the board from squares such as d3, d6, e3, e6, e4, e5, d4, and d5. Also knights rightfully need outposts and the strength of the knight is quietly based upon this outpost's location. Knights on rim are grim. Openly meaning knights on the edge or corner of the board are pretty bad since they control less squares than if they were in the centre. However, all it takes to remove the knight from that location is a pawn. You just need to move a pawn to control that square instinctively attacking the knight and widely removing the outpost. Even though so basically the knight has to nervously move and potentially internationally loses its strength. Finally my opponent said: ""R3. Using his Wikipedia source, PRO presents a biased list. In the system used by a computer, a Bishop is worth 0.5 less than a knight. PRO makes it easy to see his bias."" REBUTTAL: I did not present a biased list. If you look carefully, the list I presented in Round 2 was information of how ONLY professional chess players valued the bishop and the knight. The Wikipedia source I got the information from had a table that included the chess piece valuing of professional chess players as well as computer relating valuing (the values were all separately grouped). But the information I used from the table in Round 2 was JUST the professional chess players' valuing. I ignored all the non-human data that was in the source and only used the Human information to add weight to my argument in Round 2 to show that even professional chess players back my theory. Please view the source again to see what I mean [2] I await a response. Thanks for the reply in Round 2 thegodhand Sources: [1] http://www.ebook3000.com... [2] http://en.wikipedia.org..."	PRO	155
155	S9b368338-Acb981900	Chess requires more skill than Draughts/Checkers to master!	"Both sides agree that we are talking about whether chess is ""harder to master"" or not. Let's take a look at Pro's flow of logic: (1) More Possibilities implies More Complicated (2) More Rules implies More Complicated (3) More Complicated implies Harder to Master There are more possibilities. There are more rules. However, that is where the Pro and Con cease agreement. I will refute all of the above, but if I can successfully refute (3), or (1) and (2), then Con automatically wins. Throughout the round, notice how Pro keeps trying to make a claim about ""MORE"" of something and then say that it is inherently related to Chess being harder to master. However, ""MORE"" is not sufficient for a link. Let's boil down Pro's arguments: (1) More Possibilities implies More Complicated In his case he never explains why this is true, only that it is. I argue that this is not necessarily true, which is enough for me to negate this point. First of all, notice how his More Possibilities point and his More Rules point contradict, because rules are restrictions on moves, so rules limit the number of possibilities. Pro does not explain any sort of trade-off during the round, so his whole case falls right there. But furthermore, I already negated (1) in my case with the removing forced-capture counterexample. It is not the greatest example, sure, but it functions appropriately. I successfully negate (1) if Pro cannot provide an adequate response to this, which he did not: ""I find that Con is contradicting himself. He first states that if a game has more rules, it is not harder to master than a game with less rules. But then he goes on to say that if a game has less rules, the games is easier to master (quotation above)."" The subsequent sentences are in response to something that Pro misinterpreted, so I omit that in this refutation. Pro completely missed my point. I brought up the removing forced-capture rule as an example that would not make the game more complicated, so a counterexample to (1). I provided two counterexamples in my case to (1) and (2), so I am not contradicting myself because I am giving counterexamples to two completely separate points. Because Pro's only response to my removing forced-capture counterexample was not adequate, (1) falls. (2) More Rules implies More Complicated In his original case he cites ""en passant"", ""castling"", and ""checks"" as additional rules to chess. Sure, this is ""more"" than checkers. However, this fact alone does NOT make chess more complicated. First of all, look to my 100th move example. Like above, if this example still stands, (2) falls. The only way he wins (2) is if he can counter adequately. This is his counter: ""Actually, it does [make chess more complicated]. New strategies would be developed based on this rule, meaning that that it is another strategy that professional Checker players must know in order to improve their game play. Adding more rules makes things more complicated because there is more things to know. That is as simple as I can put it."" There is no logic in this response. Whether new strategies would exist or not is irrelevant; so long as they are simpler my point still stands. The only other logic he provides in this response is ""More rules implies more things to know implies complicated."" Finally, we see Pro's ""link"" between More Rules and More Complicated. However, ""More things to know"" about a game means absolutely nothing. That just makes chess a little bit harder to learn, which has nothing to do with more complicated. (3) More Complicated implies Harder to Master I include this as an ""even if chess is more complicated, it is NOT harder to master"" There is absolutely no support of this whatsoever in this round, so (3) falls. His only response is: ""If a game is harder to learn and play, the only logical conclusion we can make about that game is that it is harder than a game that is easier to play and learn. Example: Skiing is easier to learn than snowboarding. Skiing is much harder to master."	CON	156
156	S1f6a3f53-A1d2b9b14	Introducing chess would preserve the spirit of the ancient Olympic Games	It is not a good in itself to make modern Olympics resemble the ancient events as much as possible. Ancient Games, for instance, only allowed men to compete, and many of the sports involved today did not exist then. Progress is generally considered a good thing, and the purpose and meaning of the Olympics has progressed since then. This does not mean that art and culture have no place, and indeed there are cultural festivities surrounding every Olympic event. But modern Olympics have an identity of their own, and the question of whether chess belongs to it is a different one.	CON	157
157	Sb7c491bc-Ac1294d1f	chess is a more brain challenging game than any other board game	in chess you must think about not only your move but the other pesons also. and in the other games like buzz word or clue. you have to be 3 move ahead to win esiliy. and have fun.	PRO	158
158	Sb71caf00-A90b9c40a	is it racist that white piece gets the first chance to move in chess game	i was wondering one day after a game of chess why did with white pieces i moved first so i searched for it but got not much to know but i think it is more like a convention like why current flows in direction opposite to electron flow and no serious racism	CON	159
159	S27052130-A65bd47f5	Pro is a more skilled and strategic chess-player than Con	"The order is Kritik, then case. The pro goes very heavy against the kritik in the form of irrevalence, which is understandable, since the pro probably doesn't know what a Kritik is. In real debate, a Kritik is a special kind of argument that criticizes the underlying presumptions the pro/affirmative (if you're a policy debater like me) has. In this case, I'm critiquing the kind of education the pro is fostering, which is nonexistant. For the voters, the reason why this Kritik is relevant, and the pro links, is that the pro's debate/methododology of debate fosters the decline of good education that the Kritik said was bad. Lastly, keep in mind the con does not have the burden of topicality. As long as the con can show the case links to it, the con can run anything the con wants. It is the pro that must remain topical to whatever resolution is established. That is the only argument the pro goes for. The pro has completely dropped that the alternative solves, and is sufficient to solve the case. The pro has also conceded that the Kritik outweighs the case (seee first speech), thus voters, evaluate the Kritik before the case; education is a voter issue. Even if there is a chance I will fail to prove I am a better chess player than the pro, education still is the biggest impact in this debate since the only thing you voters get out of any debate really, is EDUCATION. Education, the literal FOUNDATION of debate. I don't see that education here. Now, let's take apart the pro's arguments against the Kritik piece by piece: 1) "" First off, con does nothing to provide evidence as to wether or not he is a better chess player than I am. In fact, he argues a point that is not related to the topic. Because of this, his argument here is irrelivant. "" First, the lack-of-evidence argument doesn't belong here, it belongs in the Case debate. I will address it there. Second, as I said before, the Kritik doesn't need to be directly relevant to the case, ie. the Kritik does not need to criticize the entirety of the case. That would be limiting. The Kritk is criticizing just the education the pro ""fosters"", thus link. 2) ""Rather than debating the given topic, Con makes a case that this debate shall not be intelligent. I will not argue against this, but it is not the topic of the debate. If Con chose this debate simply to call me a troll and saying that debates like this shouldn't be here, why is he taking part of a so called ""Troll debate"". Because of this, I am also labeling this irrelevant. "" Let me make this clear: I am not calling the pro a troll. The pro is not one of those ""PROBLEM, U MAD BRO?"" memes, let's make that clear. It's clear that the pro is critizing the presumption that this debate is a ""troll debate"", as I called it. Let's also make this clear: the kritik is saying the pro's case supports a growing movement of bad debates, in which pointless topics are debated. I already showed the voters examples of this movement, now let me show you what embracing the alternative could do: http://www.debate.org... http://www.debate.org... http://www.debate.org... http://www.debate.org... These debates are what the alternative advoate for. Serious debates about real-world issues, with logical, coherent claims. The discinction between this debate and these debates is that a) chess isn't a serious issue, b) the only method of comparison the pro has extended insofar is statistics (more on that in the Case debate), c) the only thing voters learn is how to compare numbers, which most voters probably learned in pre-school. 3) ""Again, off topic and irrelevant. "" Same as above Next, Case. Let's next go line-by-line on the pro's arguments. 1) ""Actually, Con stays on the subject of his last arguement. How funny."" What does that even mean? I don't see how this is sufficient to answer the wrong-forum argument. Thus this argument goes uncontested. Voters, this means this case SHOULDN'T EVEN BE HERE. That is sufficient already enough to vote con. Thus, for the pro to actually prove he's good at chess, I want to see him actually PLAY rather than hide behind the veil of statistics. 2) ""One does not need a chess.com account, but simply proof that they can play the game well, or better than the oppenent. I have merely provided evidence that supports that I am a better chess player than Con. Because of this, I have proven I have A) More expereince in chess: and B) Excel against others in daily games. Con has no evidence of this, and most likely will fail to provide any. <-(This is a statement, and has no verifiable proof)"" Let's start with ""play the game well."" Let's cross-apply the dropped wrong-forum argument. How else are you supposed to provide proof of ""playing the game well"" than PLAYING THE GAME? The pro makes it clear he wants to use statistics to answer that question, given he doesn't offer any other method of proof. True, I don't have a chess.com account. But even if I don't, chess.com should not be the method of comparison. First, extend my first speech argument that the best methods of comparisons should be those in which both sides have the possibility of meeting, which the pro DROPPED. Second, chess.com is an amateur website, which is not recognized by the World Chess Federation (https://www.fide.com...). That organization is the one that runs the World Chess Championships, basically the Super Bowl of chess. I don't think chess.com can even stand up to that. Ultimately, the only valid proof in this debate is a real chess game. No statistics should be used. 3) [dictionary argument] I'm not going for this argument, concede that this argument is irrevalent Lastly, I request to the voters that the role of the ballot be not who gives the most relevant arguments as the pro has so emphasized, I request the role of the ballot be which voter fosters the most and best education."	CON	160
160	S71c14982-Ae3250d55	People Who 'Know How To Play Chess' Are Just Pretending	These people aren't smart. These people aren't clever. They sit in front of wooden boards all day, Staring at wooden figures contemplating nothing. They do nothing of any actual productive function to anyone or anything except for their own egos. In actuality the rules of chess aren't even consistent.	PRO	161
161	S73090d33-A6a337bc6	In standard Chess, the one who plays White has an inherent advantage over the one who plays Black.	"Thank you, JonMilne, for making this debate possible. Before we get into the core of this debate, allow me to offer this preamble: If we were to turn the resolution around and ask ourselves, ""In standard Chess, does Black have an advantage over White because he plays second?"" I feel the responses would be unanimous: of course not, why would he? (My opponent has said he will try to show that it is actually advantageous to be Black in Chess, despite it being superfluous to his onus in this debate; this would be very interesting if he could as I've never seen a convincing argument for Black having an advantage.) Yet when asked ""Does White have an advantage over Black because he plays first?"" the answer comes less quickly. The average Chess player, particularly one sensitive to the subject, would be inclined to argue the playing field is even, though this is usually grounded more in want than reason. ""Whoever wins a game of Chess will do so by skill and skill alone. No other factor plays a role."" That is what many of us wish to believe. Then what reason do we use to dismiss the significance of White’s first move? It is a move like any other, and just as significant. Because of it, however many moves Black has thus far played (X), White will have played either X or X+1. He therefore has speed above Black, initiative above Black. Keep this in mind while reading the coming arguments and White's first-move advantage will become clear. Now, without further ado, I present my arguments: I. Control of the game Throughout the course of a Chess match, control of the game may switch from one player to another, as he/she gains a superior position or initiates a powerful attack. It can be said that whichever player whose moves are forced is certainly not in control of the game. And by using the initiative granted by the first move, White can more easily force his opponent's moves in the opening. My argument here can be summarized with the following syllogism: P1: The player who is more capable of forcing his opponent's moves is in control of the game. P2: At the start of a Chess match, the player who is more capable of forcing his opponent's moves is White. C: At the start of a Chess match, White is in control of the game. The above syllogism is logically airtight, so if the premises are granted, the conclusion cannot be avoided. Warrants for the premises are as follows: P1: The player who is more capable of forcing his opponent's moves is in control of the game. Take, as an obvious example, a player who is in check. He can't make any move that pleases him. He must somehow move himself out of check. Many checkmates that are read four or five moves ahead involve putting the opponent in check on almost every turn (if not every turn), because it forces your opponent to make an obvious, and therefore easily planned for, move. The one constantly in check is simply doing what he has to, and what his opponent wants him to do. Therefore, his opponent, the one doing the checking, is (at least temporarily) in control of the game. One doesn't necessarily have to have a superior position to be in control of the game. For example, consider a match where one of the players has more minor pieces than his opponent and is just one move away from an unpreventable checkmate. The only available option to the other player (in this hypothetical scenario) is using the queen to check the opposing king (to which he only has one legal response). Then, check again (to which he moves back to his original position). Check, check, check, back and forth, until stalemate. Though his position was inferior, by forcing his opponent's moves and thereby taking control of the game, he was able to gain a more satisfactory conclusion than the alternative. To synopsize, having control of the game is how a player can gain a superior position or quickly reach some other desired end without unwanted retaliation. And to do this, he must be more capable of forcing responses from his opponent than visa versa. P2: At the start of a Chess match, the player who is more capable of forcing his opponent's moves is White. By playing the first move, White sets the course for not only the opening, but the entire rest of the match. After e4 (the most common opening for White), Black does have a few options, some more popular than others, some of which may even necessitate a certain response from White, but they are all moves in response to e4, and therefore are all moves that can be said to have been forced by White and could be easily predicted by him. Because it is Black who is forced to play more defensively, to respond to White's moves within certain responses, it is therefore White who is more capable of forcing his opponent's moves than visa versa. C: At the start of a Chess match, White is in control of the game. II. Initiative Consider if you could pass in Chess (not make any move at all but still declare your turn over), except during a Zugzwang position (a position where it would actually be disadvantageous to make a move). Would anyone do it? No, of course not, why would they, unless to purposely hand some advantage over to the opponent? The same reasoning applies to the first move as well. Why would White pass his first move? He wouldn't, unless to freely give up an advantage. The syllogism for this argument is as follows: P1: In an even, non-Zugzwang position, it would be more advantageous to make the next move than not. P2: The start of a Chess match is an even, non-Zugzwang position. P3: It is White's turn at the start of a Chess match. C: At the start of a Chess match, it is more advantageous to be White than not. Again, this argument is logically valid, so unless one of the premises is untrue, the conclusion must be accepted. P1: In an even, non-Zugzwang position, it would be more advantageous to make the next move than not. A non-Zugzwang position is one where there are moves the players want to make, or at least one move the players want to make. Therefore, it should be obvious that being the one able to make these wanted moves first would be preferable. P2: The start of a Chess match is an even, non-Zugzwang position. This seems not only true, but obviously true. The two starting positions at the beginning of a Chess game are perfectly mirrored off of each other, and so must be seen as even. If my opponent wishes to dispute this, please do so next round, but I don't feel wasting more effort on this point is necessary for now. P3: It is White's turn at the start of a Chess match. This is, by standard Chess rules, an indisputable fact and was outlined in the instigation. C: At the start of a Chess match, it is more advantageous to be White than not. III. Grandmaster statistics If it were true that White does indeed have an inherent advantage, however minute, then we'd expect this to be reflected in the game records of the world’s greatest players. And, in fact, it is, quite clearly: In the 2009 CEGT chess engines tournament (where the greatest Chess computers were pitted against each other), we found White won 34.7 percent of the time, while Black won only 24 percent (the remaining 41.3 percent being draws). [1] Currently, of the 668,956 games logged into the database on ChessGames.com (where the ELO rating of the average player is 2211), White wins 37.35 percent of the times, whereas Black wins only 27.40 percent (the remaining 35.25 percent being draws). [2] The difference in winning percentages here is certainly not small enough for my opponent to dismiss as coincidence. Now over to you, JonMilne. Soucres: [1] http://en.wikipedia.org...; [2] http://www.chessgames.com..."	PRO	162
162	S73090d14-A9f80bbd6	In standard Chess, the one who plays White has an inherent advantage over the one who plays Black.	"Thank you, madamouiselle, for making this debate possible. Before we get into the core of this debate, allow me to offer this preamble: If we were to turn the resolution around and ask ourselves, ""In standard Chess, does Black have an advantage over White because he plays second?"" I feel the responses would be unanimous: of course not, why would he? Yet when asked “Does White have an advantage over Black because he plays first?” the answer comes less quickly. The average Chess player, particularly one sensitive to the subject, would be inclined to argue the playing field is even, though this is usually grounded more in want than reason. ""Whoever should win a Chess will do so on skill and skill alone. No other factor plays a role."" That is what many of us wish to believe. Then what reason do we use to dismiss the significance of White’s first move? It is a move like any other, and just as significant. Because of it, however many moves Black has thus far played (X), White will have played either X or X+1. He therefore has speed above Black, initiative above Black. Keep this in mind while reading the coming arguments and White's first-move advantage will become clear. Now, without further ado, I present my arguments: 1. Control of the game Throughout the course of a chess match, control of the game may switch from one player to another, as he/she gains a superior position or initiates a powerful attack. It can be said that whichever player whose moves are forced is not in control of the game. And by using the initiative granted by the first move, White can more easily force his opponent’s moves in the opening. My argument here can be summarized with the following syllogism: P1: The player who is more capable of forcing his opponent’s moves is in control of the game. P2: At the start of a Chess match, the player who is more capable of forcing his opponent’s moves is White. C: At the start of a Chess match, White is in control of the game. The above syllogism is logically airtight, so if the premises are granted, the conclusion cannot be avoided. Warrants for the premises are as follows: P1: The player who is more capable of forcing his opponent’s moves is in control of the game. Take, as an obvious example, a player who is in check. He can’t make any move that pleases him. He must somehow move himself out of check. Many checkmates that are read four or five moves ahead involve putting the opponent in check on almost every turn (if not every turn), because it forces your opponent to make an obvious, and therefore easily planned for, move. The one constantly in check is simply doing what he has to, and what his opponent wants him to do. Therefore, his opponent, the one doing the checking, is (at least temporarily) in control of the game. One doesn’t necessarily have to have a superior position to be in control of the game. For example, consider a match where one of the players has more minor pieces than his opponent and iis just one move away from an unpreventable checkmate. The only available option to the other player (in this hypothetical scenario) is using the queen to check the opposing king (to which he only has one legal response). Then, check again (to which he moves back to his original position). Check, check, check, back and forth, until stalemate. Though his position was inferior, by forcing his opponent’s moves and thereby taking control of the game, he was able to gain a more satisfactory conclusion than the alternative. To synopsize, having control of the game is how a player can gain a superior position or quickly reach some other desired end without unwanted retaliation. And to do this, he must be more capable of forcing responses from his opponent than visa versa. P2: At the start of a Chess match, the player who is more capable of forcing his opponent’s moves is White. By playing the first move, White sets the course for not only the opening, but the entire rest of the match. After e4 (the most common opening for White), Black does have a few options, some more popular than others, some of which may even necessitate a certain response from White, but they are all moves in response to e4, and therefore are all moves that can be said to have been forced by White and could be easily predicted by him. Because it is Black who is forced to play more defensively, to respond to White’s moves within certain responses, it is therefore White who is more capable of forcing his opponent’s moves than visa versa. C: At the start of a Chess match, White is in control of the game. 2. Initiative Consider if you could pass in Chess (not make any move at all but still declare your turn over), except during a Zugzwang position (a position where it would actually be disadvantageous to make a move). Would anyone do it? No, of course not, why would they, unless to purposely hand some advantage over to the opponent? The same reasoning applies to the first move as well. Why would White pass his first move? He wouldn’t, unless to freely give up an advantage. The syllogism for this argument is as follows: P1: In an even, non-Zugzwang position, it would be more advantageous to make the next move than not. P2: The start of a Chess match is an even, non-Zugzwang position. P3: It is White’s turn at the start of a Chess match. C: At the start of a Chess match, it is more advantageous to be White than not. Again, this argument is logically valid, so unless one of the premises are untrue, the conclusion must be accepted. P1: In an even, non-Zugzwang position, it would be more advantageous to make the next move than not. A non-Zugzwang position is one where there are moves the players want to make, or at least one move the players want to make. Therefore, it should be obvious that being the one able to make these wanted moves first would be preferable. P2: The start of a Chess match is an even, non-Zugzwang position. This seems not only true, but obviously true. The two starting positions at the beginning of a Chess game are perfectly mirrored off each other, and so must be seen as even. If my opponent wishes to dispute this, please do so next round, but I don’t feel wasting more effort on this point is necessary for now. P3: It is White’s turn at the start of a Chess match. This is, by standard Chess rules, an indisputable fact and was outlined in the instigation. C: At the start of a Chess match, it is more advantageous to be White than not. 3. Grandmaster statistics If it were true that White does indeed have an inherent advantage, however minute, then we’d expect this to be reflected in the game records of the world’s greatest players. And, in fact, it is, quite clearly: In the 2009 CEGT chess engines tournament (where the greatest Chess computers were pitted against each other), we found White won 34.7 percent of the time, while Black won only 24 percent (the remaining 41.3 percent being draws). [1] Currently, of the 668,956 games logged into the database on ChessGames.com (where the ELO rating of the average player is 2211), White wins 37.35 percent of the times, whereas Black wins only 27.40 percent (the remaining 35.25 percent being draws). [2] The difference in winning percentages here is certainly not small enough for my opponent to dismiss as coincidence. Over to you, madamouiselle. Sources: [1] http://en.wikipedia.org... [2] http://www.chessgames.com..."	PRO	163
163	S73090d52-Ac8b77379	In standard Chess, the one who plays White has an inherent advantage over the one who plays Black.	"Thank you, Rm15, for making this debate possible. Before we get into the core of this debate, allow me to offer this preamble: If we were to turn the resolution around and ask ourselves, ""In standard Chess, does Black have an advantage over White because he plays second?"" I feel the responses would be unanimous: of course not, why would he? Yet when asked ""Does White have an advantage over Black because he plays first?"" the answer comes less quickly. The average Chess player, particularly one sensitive to the subject, would be inclined to argue the playing field is even, though this is usually grounded more in want than reason. ""Whoever wins a game of Chess will do so by skill and skill alone. No other factor plays a role."" That is what many of us wish to believe. Then what reason do we use to dismiss the significance of White’s first move? It is a move like any other, and just as significant. Because of it, however many moves Black has thus far played (X), White will have played either X or X+1. He therefore has speed above Black, initiative above Black. Keep this in mind while reading the coming arguments and White's first-move advantage will become clear. Now, without further ado, I present my arguments: I. Control of the game Throughout the course of a Chess match, control of the game may switch from one player to another, as he/she gains a superior position or initiates a powerful attack. It can be said that whichever player whose moves are forced is certainly not in control of the game. And by using the initiative granted by the first move, White can more easily force his opponent's moves in the opening. My argument here can be summarized with the following syllogism: P1: The player who is more capable of forcing his opponent's moves is in control of the game. P2: At the start of a Chess match, the player who is more capable of forcing his opponent's moves is White. C: At the start of a Chess match, White is in control of the game. The above syllogism is logically airtight, so if the premises are granted, the conclusion cannot be avoided. Warrants for the premises are as follows: P1: The player who is more capable of forcing his opponent's moves is in control of the game. Take, as an obvious example, a player who is in check. He can't make any move that pleases him. He must somehow move himself out of check. Many checkmates that are read four or five moves ahead involve putting the opponent in check on almost every turn (if not every turn), because it forces your opponent to make an obvious, and therefore easily planned for, move. The one constantly in check is simply doing what he has to, and what his opponent wants him to do. Therefore, his opponent, the one doing the checking, is (at least temporarily) in control of the game. One doesn't necessarily have to have a superior position to be in control of the game. For example, consider a match where one of the players has more minor pieces than his opponent and is just one move away from an unpreventable checkmate. The only available option to the other player (in this hypothetical scenario) is using the queen to check the opposing king (to which he only has one legal response). Then, check again (to which he moves back to his original position). Check, check, check, back and forth, until stalemate. Though his position was inferior, by forcing his opponent's moves and thereby taking control of the game, he was able to gain a more satisfactory conclusion than the alternative. To synopsize, having control of the game is how a player can gain a superior position or quickly reach some other desired end without unwanted retaliation. And to do this, he must be more capable of forcing responses from his opponent than visa versa. P2: At the start of a Chess match, the player who is more capable of forcing his opponent's moves is White. By playing the first move, White sets the course for not only the opening, but the entire rest of the match. After e4 (the most common opening for White), Black does have a few options, some more popular than others, some of which may even necessitate a certain response from White, but they are all moves in response to e4, and therefore are all moves that can be said to have been forced by White and could be easily predicted by him. Because it is Black who is forced to play more defensively, to respond to White's moves within certain responses, it is therefore White who is more capable of forcing his opponent's moves than visa versa. C: At the start of a Chess match, White is in control of the game. II. Initiative Consider if you could pass in Chess (not make any move at all but still declare your turn over), except during a Zugzwang position (a position where it would actually be disadvantageous to make a move). Would anyone do it? No, of course not, why would they, unless to purposely hand some advantage over to the opponent? The same reasoning applies to the first move as well. Why would White pass his first move? He wouldn't, unless to freely give up an advantage. The syllogism for this argument is as follows: P1: In an even, non-Zugzwang position, it would be more advantageous to make the next move than not. P2: The start of a Chess match is an even, non-Zugzwang position. P3: It is White's turn at the start of a Chess match. C: At the start of a Chess match, it is more advantageous to be White than not. Again, this argument is logically valid, so unless one of the premises is untrue, the conclusion must be accepted. P1: In an even, non-Zugzwang position, it would be more advantageous to make the next move than not. A non-Zugzwang position is one where there are moves the players want to make, or at least one move the players want to make. Therefore, it should be obvious that being the one able to make these wanted moves first would be preferable. P2: The start of a Chess match is an even, non-Zugzwang position. This seems not only true, but obviously true. The two starting positions at the beginning of a Chess game are perfectly mirrored off of each other, and so must be seen as even. If my opponent wishes to dispute this, please do so next round, but I don't feel wasting more effort on this point is necessary for now. P3: It is White's turn at the start of a Chess match. This is, by standard Chess rules, an indisputable fact and was outlined in the instigation. C: At the start of a Chess match, it is more advantageous to be White than not. III. Grandmaster statistics If it were true that White does indeed have an inherent advantage, however minute, then we'd expect this to be reflected in the game records of the world’s greatest players. And, in fact, it is, quite clearly: In the 2009 CEGT chess engines tournament (where the greatest Chess computers were pitted against each other), we found White won 34.7 percent of the time, while Black won only 24 percent (the remaining 41.3 percent being draws). [1] Currently, of the 668,956 games logged into the database on ChessGames.com (where the ELO rating of the average player is 2211), White wins 37.35 percent of the times, whereas Black wins only 27.40 percent (the remaining 35.25 percent being draws). [2] The difference in winning percentages here is certainly not small enough for my opponent to dismiss as coincidence. Now over to you, Rm15. Soucres: [1] http://en.wikipedia.org... [2] http://www.chessgames.com..."	PRO	164
164	S73090d71-A3c0c78b7	In standard Chess, the one who plays White has an inherent advantage over the one who plays Black.	"Thank you, Torvald, for making this debate possible. As some of you might know, this is now the fourth time I've tried to get a good debate out of this resolution; hopefully it will prove more fruitful this time around. Now, before we get into the core of this debate, allow me to offer this preamble: If we were to turn the resolution around and ask ourselves, ""In standard Chess, does Black have an advantage over White because he plays second?"" I feel the responses would be unanimous: of course not, why would he? Yet when asked ""Does White have an advantage over Black because he plays first?"" the answer comes less quickly. The average Chess player, particularly one sensitive to the subject, would be inclined to argue the playing field is even, though this is usually grounded more in want than reason. ""Whoever wins a game of Chess will do so by skill and skill alone. No other factor plays a role."" That is what many of us wish to believe. Then what reason do we use to dismiss the significance of White’s first move? It is a move like any other, and just as significant. Because of it, however many moves Black has thus far played (X), White will have played either X or X+1. He therefore has speed above Black, initiative above Black. Keep this in mind while reading the coming arguments and White's first-move advantage will become clear. Now, without further ado, I present my arguments: I. Control of the game Throughout the course of a Chess match, control of the game may switch from one player to another, as he/she gains a superior position or initiates a powerful attack. It can be said that whichever player whose moves are forced is certainly not in control of the game. And by using the initiative granted by the first move, White can more easily force his opponent's moves in the opening. My argument here can be summarized with the following syllogism: P1: The player who is more capable of forcing his opponent's moves is in control of the game. P2: At the start of a Chess match, the player who is more capable of forcing his opponent's moves is White. C: At the start of a Chess match, White is in control of the game. The above syllogism is logically airtight, so if the premises are granted, the conclusion cannot be avoided. Warrants for the premises are as follows: P1: The player who is more capable of forcing his opponent's moves is in control of the game. Take, as an obvious example, a player who is in check. He can't make any move that pleases him. He must somehow move himself out of check. Many checkmates that are read four or five moves ahead involve putting the opponent in check on almost every turn (if not every turn), because it forces your opponent to make an obvious, and therefore easily planned for, move. The one constantly in check is simply doing what he has to, and what his opponent wants him to do. Therefore, his opponent, the one doing the checking, is (at least temporarily) in control of the game. One doesn't necessarily have to have a superior position to be in control of the game. For example, consider a match where one of the players has more minor pieces than his opponent and is just one move away from an unpreventable checkmate. The only available option to the other player (in this hypothetical scenario) is using the queen to check the opposing king (to which he only has one legal response). Then, check again (to which he moves back to his original position). Check, check, check, back and forth, until stalemate. Though his position was inferior, by forcing his opponent's moves and thereby taking control of the game, he was able to gain a more satisfactory conclusion than the alternative. To synopsize, having control of the game is how a player can gain a superior position or quickly reach some other desired end without unwanted retaliation. And to do this, he must be more capable of forcing responses from his opponent than visa versa. P2: At the start of a Chess match, the player who is more capable of forcing his opponent's moves is White. By playing the first move, White sets the course for not only the opening, but the entire rest of the match. After e4 (the most common opening for White), Black does have a few options, some more popular than others, some of which may even necessitate a certain response from White, but they are all moves in response to e4, and therefore are all moves that can be said to have been forced by White and could be easily predicted by him. Because it is Black who is forced to play more defensively, to respond to White's moves within certain responses, it is therefore White who is more capable of forcing his opponent's moves than visa versa. C: At the start of a Chess match, White is in control of the game. II. Initiative Consider if you could pass in Chess (not make any move at all but still declare your turn over), except during a Zugzwang position (a position where it would actually be disadvantageous to make a move). Would anyone do it? No, of course not, why would they, unless to purposely hand some advantage over to the opponent? The same reasoning applies to the first move as well. Why would White pass his first move? He wouldn't, unless to freely give up an advantage. The syllogism for this argument is as follows: P1: In an even, non-Zugzwang position, it is more advantageous to make the next move than not. P2: The start of a Chess match is an even, non-Zugzwang position. P3: It is White's turn at the start of a Chess match. C: At the start of a Chess match, it is more advantageous to be White than not. Again, this argument is logically valid, so unless one of the premises is untrue, the conclusion must be accepted. P1: In an even, non-Zugzwang position, it is more advantageous to make the next move than not. A non-Zugzwang position is one where there are moves the players want to make, or at least one move the players want to make. Therefore, it should be obvious that being the one able to make these wanted moves first would be preferable. P2: The start of a Chess match is an even, non-Zugzwang position. This seems not only true, but obviously true. The two starting positions at the beginning of a Chess game are perfectly mirrored off of each other, and so must be seen as even. If my opponent wishes to dispute this, please do so next round, but I don't feel wasting more effort on this point is necessary for now. P3: It is White's turn at the start of a Chess match. This is, by standard Chess rules, an indisputable fact and was outlined in the instigation. C: At the start of a Chess match, it is more advantageous to be White than not. III. Grandmaster statistics If it were true that White does indeed have an inherent advantage, however minute, then we'd expect this to be reflected in the game records of the world’s greatest players. And, in fact, it is, quite clearly: In the 2009 CEGT chess engines tournament (where the greatest Chess computers were pitted against each other), we found White won 34.7 percent of the time, while Black won only 24 percent (the remaining 41.3 percent being draws). [1] Currently, of the 668,956 games logged into the database on ChessGames.com (where the ELO rating of the average player is 2211), White wins 37.35 percent of the times, whereas Black wins only 27.40 percent (the remaining 35.25 percent being draws). [2] The difference in winning percentages here is certainly not small enough for my opponent to dismiss as coincidence. Now over to you, Torvald. Soucres: [1] http://en.wikipedia.org... [2] http://www.chessgames.com..."	PRO	165
165	S3c7cf163-A193659cb	Given a strong enough computer, the game of chess can be solved so that one player can never lose.	The game of chess is solvable. Given enough data, a player, either white or black, I don't know which, would always be able to win or draw, despite the millions of possible combinations on the board. This also applies to other similar non-luck strategy games, including checkers, Khet, and Chinese Chess. I will continue my argument after my opponent responds. Definitions: http://www.merriam-webster.com... http://en.wikipedia.org... solvable: susceptible of solution or of being solved, resolved, or explained (in this case, the solution is an extremely large set of strategies that can be applied to any situation possible on a chess board that can be reached by using previous strategies. I can explain further if asked.) By win, I mean getting a checkmate, by draw, I mean resulting in a stalemate or draw, and by loss, I mean getting checkmated. I thank my opponent for accepting this debate.	PRO	166
166	S73090d33-Aca71af5b	In standard Chess, the one who plays White has an inherent advantage over the one who plays Black.	Despite perhaps not being as experienced in terms of playing chess as others, including my opponent, I believe I can submit a convincing case that it's actually better in chess to be holding on to Black pieces than to White. If Pro could message me about how to submit pictures in debates, that would be enormously helpful.	CON	167
167	S73090d71-A8d44faa4	In standard Chess, the one who plays White has an inherent advantage over the one who plays Black.	"To dazzle you all is why I'm here. This round of mine will be much shorter than my last as there is little needed to be said. I do want to mention, though, that I'm surprised you brought up that quote by Grandmaster Evgeny Sveshnikov: ""Black players cannot afford to make even the slightest mistake ... from a theoretical point of view, the tasks of White and Black in chess are different: White has to strive for a win, Black—for a draw!"" Here, Sveshnikov is clearly agreeing with my position in this debate, not my opponent's. Now then, let's take another look at my three arguments for why White has an inherent advantage in Chess and discuss Torvald's objections to them: I. Control of the game P1: The player who is more capable of forcing his opponent's moves is in control of the game. P2: At the start of a Chess match, the player who is more capable of forcing his opponent's moves is White. C: At the start of a Chess match, White is in control of the game. Torvald concedes the truth of P1, but takes exception to P2, claiming that it is nothing more than an assumption. Yet he goes on to say that, in making the first move, White is the one ""to play the aggressor, to shape the game"" and ""to set the pace of the game."" He also states Black will ""have to spend a great deal of time countering White's moves."" If this is not an agreement to the second premise, I don't know what is. The only tangible objection he does raise is that Black is able to, by virtue of playing second, adapt more quickly than White. This is, however, left disappointingly unwarranted. Logically, the opposite holds true. As stated in my preamble, White is the one who is afforded speed; if either player can adapt more quickly than the other, it's him, not Black. For however many moves Black has thus far played in any given game (X), White will have either played X or X+1. Inarguably then, we can see White is the one with greater speed, speed which Black can logically never surpass. II. Initiative P1: In an even, non-Zugzwang position, it is more advantageous to make the next move than not. P2: The start of a Chess match is an even, non-Zugzwang position. P3: It is White's turn at the start of a Chess match. C: At the start of a Chess match, it is more advantageous to be White than not. My opponent did not specifically address this argument at all and so it remains unscathed. III. Grandmaster Statistics In his introduction, Torvald admitted that (in his opinion, at least) this is the single most impressive argument of the three I presented, yet he makes no attempt to refute it. In fact, he seems persuaded by it, saying that ""White seems to have an inherent advantage indeed."" So far, all three of the arguments I erected in round two are still standing tall. I now give the floor to Torvald."	PRO	168
168	S3c7cf163-A41ea412e	Given a strong enough computer, the game of chess can be solved so that one player can never lose.	"I will answer my opponent's questions. ""1)if your resolution has lose then why do you have the definition of win"" 1. It doesn't hurt to throw in other semi-relevant definitions. After all, if you win, you clearly don't lose. ""2)and are we arguing chess or all the other games you named."" 2. We are arguing chess. The other games were just examples of other solvable, non-luck strategy games. Which would include tic-tac-toe as well. I await my opponent's response."	PRO	169
169	S73090d14-A8c88b694	In standard Chess, the one who plays White has an inherent advantage over the one who plays Black.	"Resolution The full resolution for this debate is as follows: ""In standard Chess, the one who plays White has an inherent advantage over the one who plays Black."" Definitions Inherent: existing necessarily as a property of a thing or phenomenon. Advantage: any state, circumstance, or opportunity that is favorable or benifital in achieving a desired end. ""The one who plays White"" is the player in control of the white pieces (occasionally hereafter referred to simply as ""White"" while his/her opponent sometimes referred to as ""Black""). White is the one who, by standard Chess rules, makes the first move. Any other word not specifically defined will assume its most common dictionary definition for the context of this debate. Debate Structure In this debate, I will be arguing that making the first move is an action which provides White with an inherent advantage not sufficiently counter-balanced by Black's assets, and so Black must therefore play that much better to achieve a superior position. Whether or not a Chess beginner can realize or utilize White's inherent advantage is irrelevant to this debate. Perfect play, though widely unknown, is assumed. Further rules are as follows: 1. The burden of proof will be on me. 2. Any tactic which could be reasonably seen as semantics is forbidden. 3. Con must use his/her first round for acceptance only. Later rounds are to be used however we see fit. 4. 8,000 characters and a 72-hour period are alloted for each round of debate. The voting period will last two weeks."	PRO	170
170	S3c7cf163-Af3411e24	Given a strong enough computer, the game of chess can be solved so that one player can never lose.	"Now to respond to something. ""1)Computer What if you have two computers that are both very good at chess its going to go back and forth on who wins. It won't be a draw everytime that my opponent might try to state because the job of the computer is to win not to stall long enough so they have to draw they will keep going until they can absolutely win."" The point is, neither would be able to win. If winning would be possible, it would either white would always win, or black would always win, which I already stated as ""always winning"" in the second sentence. There is a finite number of possible combinations for the pieces to be on a chess board. From each of these combinations, there is a finite number of moves. Thus, there is a finite amount of possible games that could be played. http://mathworld.wolfram.com...... ""2)Make The Computer to make this computer the person making this would have to able to win everytime becuase to make a computer to win a certain game you have to write an immense amount of code and so it won't always win unless the person writing the code always wins which i don't think anybody thus far has"" Not really. It could be extensive knowledge, compacted into the computer. If a computer could get the data for every combination, then figure out how to get to all the optimal ones, and how to avoid all the ones that would end in defeat, it would be able to win. http://www.odysseymagazine.com...... Do a Ctrl+F for ""checkers"" and you should find the article. Checkers has been solved, and clearly the people who made it didn't know every combination, they let the computer find that out. So why not chess? It would just take that much more data, but it is possible. Thank you."	PRO	171
171	S27052130-A368ee282	Pro is a more skilled and strategic chess-player than Con	"I have provided more evidence to my claims than con has, and he has failed to see that i have posted my USCF account as well. Con said: "" True, I don't have a chess.com account. But even if I don't, chess.com should not be the method of comparison."" Which is why I linked my USCF account! What is the USCF? It's the rating and ranking system of chess based in the united states, the same exact format the Chess.com uses. I linked chess.com as games that I have played are on there, and I linked my USCF ( http://www.uschess.org... Con seems to have missed.) So far, Con is not even staying on subject, instead trying to debate wether or not the topic is relevant. I will not argue against this, as it is not the debate. I have linked my stats, and at this point I have proved I have more skill than Con based on experience alone. Con, please be relevant."	PRO	172
172	S3c7cf163-A555acba8	Given a strong enough computer, the game of chess can be solved so that one player can never lose.	Before i start their isn't really anyway to debate this before i can clear things up so if pro you would answer these question 1)if your resolution has lose then why do you have the definition of win 2)and are we arguing chess or all the other games you named.	CON	173
173	Sdb654555-Acf3b23f7	Olympic sports are suppose to be physical	I think that mind sport such as chess, quizzing, and debating shouldn’t be in the Summer Olympic and Paralympics games because the skills you need in mind games do not involve physical activity. Olympic sports are supposed to be for hard work and physical ability, but for chess, quizzing and debating you don’t need physical ability you just need to study. The Olympic sports are known for athletes all over the world that are the best, if chess, quizzing and debating came in I think that the Olympic would lose a lot of views. So in my opinion I don’t think mind games should be in the Summer Olympic and Paralympics competition.	PRO	174
174	S3c7cf163-Adf474d66	Given a strong enough computer, the game of chess can be solved so that one player can never lose.	1)Computer He tries to state that neither would be able to win but eventually given enough times one of them would beat the other. 2)Making the computer He states it would have to have extensive knowledge compacted into the computer but that's my point exactly that would be a huge program first of all and second of all that would take a while to make and third of all the person making the program would have to know all this extensive knowledge... chess is alot more complex than checkers Thank you.	CON	175
175	S73090d52-Ac3766c4d	In standard Chess, the one who plays White has an inherent advantage over the one who plays Black.	"I. Resolution The full resolution for this debate is as follows: ""In standard Chess, the one who plays White has an inherent advantage over the one who plays Black."" II. Definitions Inherent: existing necessarily as a property of a thing or phenomenon. Advantage: any state, circumstance, or opportunity that is favorable or beneficial in achieving a desired end. ""The one who plays White"" is the player in control of the white pieces (occasionally hereafter referred to simply as ""White"" while his/her opponent sometimes referred to as ""Black""). White is the one who, by standard Chess rules, makes the first move. Any other word not specifically defined will assume its most common dictionary definition for the context of this debate. III. Debate Structure In this debate, I will be arguing that making the first move is an action which provides White with an inherent advantage not sufficiently counter-balanced by Black's assets, and so Black must therefore play that much better to achieve an objectively superior position. Further rules are as follows: (1) The burden of proof will be on me. (2) Any tactic which could be reasonably seen as semantics is forbidden. (3) Con must use his/her first round for acceptance only. Later rounds are to be used however we see fit. (4) 8,000 characters will be allotted for each round of debate. All arguments and sources must be made within these 8,000 characters; nothing within in the comment section should be counted. Any glitch which would allow a debater to bypass this 8,000 character limit (including posting ""pictures"" of nothing but text a la Apeiron) is strictly prohibited. Breaking any of these rules will result in an automatic loss (via voters awarding all 7 points to the other participant). By accepting this debate, my opponent accepts and agrees to these rules."	PRO	176
176	S73090d71-A8cb0ea53	In standard Chess, the one who plays White has an inherent advantage over the one who plays Black.	"Thank you, Torvald, for your willingness to debate this with me directly following your overdue return to DDO. I. Resolution The full resolution for this debate is as follows: ""In standard Chess, the one who plays White has an inherent advantage over the one who plays Black."" II. Definitions Inherent: existing necessarily as a property of a thing or phenomenon. Advantage: any state, circumstance, or opportunity that is favorable or beneficial in achieving a desired end. ""The one who plays White"" is the player in control of the white pieces (occasionally hereafter referred to simply as ""White"" while his/her opponent sometimes referred to as ""Black""). White is the one who, by standard Chess rules, makes the first move. Any other word not specifically defined will assume its most common dictionary definition for the context of this debate. III. Debate Structure In this debate, I will be arguing that making the first move is an action which provides White with an inherent advantage not sufficiently counter-balanced by Black's assets, and so Black must therefore play that much better to achieve an objectively superior position. Further rules are as follows: (1) The burden of proof will be on me. (2) Any tactic which could be reasonably seen as semantics is forbidden. (3) Con must use his/her first round for acceptance only. Later rounds are to be used however we see fit. (4) 8,000 characters will be allotted for each round of debate. All arguments and sources must be made within these 8,000 characters; nothing within in the comment section should be counted. Any glitch which would allow a debater to bypass this 8,000 character limit (including posting ""pictures"" of nothing but text a la Apeiron) is strictly prohibited. Breaking any of these rules will result in an automatic loss (via voters awarding all 7 points to the other participant). By accepting this debate, my opponent accepts and agrees to these rules. Good luck and have fun!"	PRO	177
177	S3c7cf163-Ad9686ffe	Given a strong enough computer, the game of chess can be solved so that one player can never lose.	"1) ""Neither would be able to win if both knew everything about chess. It would always be in a draw. They would never lose to anyone, and would almost always win against others, because it could know what all the potential choices of its opponent are, and choose the move that leaves no counter. I never said it would be able to beat itself, just anything beneath itself. There is nothing above it."" I'm saying if we made two of these computers and they faced eachother, one of them would win and one of them would lose. not it face itself. 2) ""Just because it would be a huge program doesn't mean it can't be done: hence the term, ""given a strong enough computer"". Time is not an issue. The person making the program would not have to know all of it. The people who made the checkers program didn't know all of it, yet they made a computer program that always wins. It's the same logic. How much more complex it is doesn't matter. Checkers is a lot more complex that tic-tac-toe, but it was still possible. Making a program to never lose tic-tac-toe is the same concept, but much more basic. It's the same type of game: No luck, all skill, the only difference between player A and player B is who goes first."" Checkers is alot less complex than checkers like i said. You can make a way to beat checkers but because its clear to see all the moves you can make. in chess it is not the case you can only do a certain amout of moves and you have to understand each and every move you can make. NEW ARGUMENT He also states in the resolution strong enough computer... it doesn't matter how strong the computer is if it doesn't have a good enough program with that i strongly urge a negative vote and Thank you for your time."	CON	178
178	S3c7cf163-A92c4c0a7	Given a strong enough computer, the game of chess can be solved so that one player can never lose.	"""1)Computer He tries to state that neither would be able to win but eventually given enough times one of them would beat the other."" Neither would be able to win if both knew everything about chess. It would always be in a draw. They would never lose to anyone, and would almost always win against others, because it could know what all the potential choices of its opponent are, and choose the move that leaves no counter. I never said it would be able to beat itself, just anything beneath itself. There is nothing above it. ""2)Making the computer He states it would have to have extensive knowledge compacted into the computer but that's my point exactly that would be a huge program first of all and second of all that would take a while to make and third of all the person making the program would have to know all this extensive knowledge... chess is alot more complex than checkers"" Just because it would be a huge program doesn't mean it can't be done: hence the term, ""given a strong enough computer"". Time is not an issue. The person making the program would not have to know all of it. The people who made the checkers program didn't know all of it, yet they made a computer program that always wins. It's the same logic. How much more complex it is doesn't matter. Checkers is a lot more complex that tic-tac-toe, but it was still possible. Making a program to never lose tic-tac-toe is the same concept, but much more basic. It's the same type of game: No luck, all skill, the only difference between player A and player B is who goes first. ""Thank you."" Gracias."	PRO	179
179	S73090d33-Ac3766c4d	In standard Chess, the one who plays White has an inherent advantage over the one who plays Black.	"I. Resolution The full resolution for this debate is as follows: ""In standard Chess, the one who plays White has an inherent advantage over the one who plays Black."" II. Definitions Inherent: existing necessarily as a property of a thing or phenomenon. Advantage: any state, circumstance, or opportunity that is favorable or beneficial in achieving a desired end. ""The one who plays White"" is the player in control of the white pieces (occasionally hereafter referred to simply as ""White"" while his/her opponent sometimes referred to as ""Black""). White is the one who, by standard Chess rules, makes the first move. Any other word not specifically defined will assume its most common dictionary definition for the context of this debate. III. Debate Structure In this debate, I will be arguing that making the first move is an action which provides White with an inherent advantage not sufficiently counter-balanced by Black's assets, and so Black must therefore play that much better to achieve an objectively superior position. Further rules are as follows: (1) The burden of proof will be on me. (2) Any tactic which could be reasonably seen as semantics is forbidden. (3) Con must use his/her first round for acceptance only. Later rounds are to be used however we see fit. (4) 8,000 characters will be allotted for each round of debate. All arguments and sources must be made within these 8,000 characters; nothing within in the comment section should be counted. Any glitch which would allow a debater to bypass this 8,000 character limit (including posting ""pictures"" of nothing but text a la Apeiron) is strictly prohibited. Breaking any of these rules will result in an automatic loss (via voters awarding all 7 points to the other participant). By accepting this debate, my opponent accepts and agrees to these rules."	PRO	180
180	S1979edab-A60c7d3ac	Chess is a sport	Since you didnt put out the Definition for sport i will: an activity involving physical exertion and skill in which an individual or team competes against another or others for entertainment. http://www.oxforddictionaries.com... I would also like us to look at Chris Crawford's definition for a game throughout this round: if the player can only outperform the opponent, but not attack them to interfere with their performance, the conflict is a competition. However, if attacks are allowed, then the conflict qualifies as a game.	CON	181
181	S1f6a3f53-Aa74bb87	Opening up the Olympics for borderline sports is bad in itself	The Olympic does not hold precedence as a justification for including a given sport. They do not have fixed guidelines, and they include sports on a case by case basis. Therefore, it seems unlikely that this would force the IOC to accept other mind games. Bridge and poker, for instance, rely on an element of chance, which chess does not. This is a criterion that impacts their appropriateness for assessing human potential, and a ground on which other mind sports ought not to be included. Furthermore, it may well be true that the Olympics cannot continue expanding due to lack of space, and the inability of most countries to host such large events. However, chess is one of the examples where the least space and infrastructure is required. This is an argument for not having infinite sports, but it provides no reason to exclude chess from a finite selection.	CON	182
182	S3c7cf163-A4d986a24	Given a strong enough computer, the game of chess can be solved so that one player can never lose.	ARGUMENTS 1)Computer What if you have two computers that are both very good at chess its going to go back and forth on who wins. It won't be a draw everytime that my opponent might try to state because the job of the computer is to win not to stall long enough so they have to draw they will keep going until they can absolutely win. 2)Make The Computer to make this computer the person making this would have to able to win everytime becuase to make a computer to win a certain game you have to write an immense amount of code and so it won't always win unless the person writing the code always wins which i don't think anybody thus far has Thank You	CON	183
183	S73090d71-A8c163ae9	In standard Chess, the one who plays White has an inherent advantage over the one who plays Black.	I. Control of the game P1: The player who is more capable of forcing his opponent's moves is in control of the game. P2: At the start of a Chess match, the player who is more capable of forcing his opponent's moves is White. C: At the start of a Chess match, White is in control of the game. Torvlad elucidates his issue with the second premise: because White plays first, he must play the aggressor. And because he must play the aggressor, his moves are more predictable. And because his moves are more predictable, he is not the player who is more capable of forcing his opponent's moves. He says this is the case because White can often be frustrated after an offensive strategy that fails due to a mere block by Black. Obviously, White should not be trying to checkmate Black within the first few moves; he will certainly become quickly frustrated if this is his strategy. Torvald seems to be confusing the purpose of White's offensive openings; it's not to set up a ninja-like quick death for Black. It's simply to expand influence on the board (most importantly, the center). When White plays A and Black plays B to block a potential, devastating C attack, White is not frustrated for losing the chance to play C; on the contrary, he's satisfied to have been able to play A without losing control of the game. And because Black must either play moves like B or risk potential, devastating attacks, his moves are the more predictable ones. White, on the other hand, has the freedom to attack (or threaten to attack) as he wishes, which could never be more predictable than Black's needed defensive moves. Torvald goes on to explain how Black might be able to force White into a Zugzwang position later in the game due to playing more defensively; these arguments bleed into the next major point of the debate so I will address them there. II. Initiative P1: In an even, non-Zugzwang position, it is more advantageous to make the next move than not. P2: The start of a Chess match is an even, non-Zugzwang position. P3: It is White's turn at the start of a Chess match. C: At the start of a Chess match, it is more advantageous to be White than not. My opponent did not directly object to any of this argument's premises. Instead, to counter this argument, Torvald introduces a syllogism of his own, outlining how White can be forced into a Zugzwang position by virtue of having the first move. Let's take a look at his argument: P1: Moving first forces an aggressive strategy. P2: Mandatory-aggressive strategies are easily predictable. P3: A predictable strategy is more easily-manipulated. P4: An easily-manipulable strategy may be more easily forced into a zugzwang position. P5: A zugzwang position is not advantageous. C: It is not advantageous to move first. Since the conclusions of our arguments contradict each other, of course, only one of them can be true. So which one fails? Well, we have so far seen no reason to believe my own argument fails. P2 and P3 of my argument are indisputable, so the only premise to attack would be P1; however, to deny the truth of P1 would be to accept its absurd negation: In an even, non-Zugzwang position, the next move played, no matter how good, does not affect the outcome of the game. This is obviously untrue, since every move played affects the outcome of a game, and every move White plays should somehow benefit White (in a non-Zugzwang position). So as it stands, my argument seems rock-solid; simply knowing this would be enough to deny my opponent's argument, since his conclusion logically buds heads with the conclusion I flawlessly established. But regardless, let's take a look at the specific reasons why my opponent's argument does fail: (a) P2 may be true, but is misleading. Any mandatory move is predictable; the question is, is a mandatory defensive move more predictable than an offensive one? As I stated earlier, it is. Theoretically, an attack can come from any piece, from any space on the board, but a block can only come from the pieces which can directly block the attack. (b) Even if it were somehow true that an aggressive move is more predictable than a defensive one, there is no way for the defending player to utilize this predictability in a way that can be said to be of any significant help. That is, even if Black knows White will play an offensive first, second, and third move, there is nothing Black can do to prepare for it beforehand. (Black, the player, can study opening lines before the game to prepare, but that is an example of how Black can prepare in practice, not in theory. In theory, Black cannot prepare his pieces for White's opening assault no matter how predictable it is since, legally, he can make no moves beforehand.) As an example of how unhelpful predictability can be, when one player plays a string of three or four checks in a row (finally resulting in an inevitable checkmate), the player who is being checked may be able to predict that he will be put in check again on the next move, but that doesn't necessarily mean there is a way to prevent it. (c) As a final note, for the record, a Zugzwang position is a very rare thing. Most high-level games begin and end without a Zugzwang position ever occurring for either player. With that in mind, it seems absurd to be persuaded by an argument which depends on establishing the premise that Black will likely be able to force White into a Zugzwang position later in the game due to playing more defensively. Even though I hold the position that White is more capable of forcing Black's moves, I wouldn't say it is therefore likely he can force Black into a Zugzwang position halfway or so through the game. Taking into consideration that Torvald's argument suffers flaws (a), (b), and (c) and that my argument suffers no flaws at all, it ought to be clear which of our conclusions we should embrace. III. Grandmaster Statistics My opponent has conceded this argument. He does, however, make the point that grandmaster statistics only prove that White has an inherent advantage in practice, not in theory (and this is a debate concerning the latter, not the former), which is true. I presented the grandmaster statistics as evidence to compliment my arguments, not as an individual proof. That is to say, if it were true that White has an inherent advantage in theory, then we should expect that to be apparent in practice. And it is apparent in practice. It doesn't prove the validity of my arguments, but it is hardly irrelevant as my opponent would like for us to believe. Likewise, if it were true that neither White nor Black had an inherent advantage in theory, then we should expect that to be apparent in practice. But grandmaster statistics do not support such a theory; they support the theory that White does have an advantage. Finally, I would like to thank Torvald for another fun and interesting Chess-related debate and the audience for taking the time to read and enjoy it.	PRO	184
184	S1f6a3f53-Aaf27b6a2	introduce Chess at the Olympics	Opening up the Olympics for borderline sports is bad in itself	CON	185
185	S73090d71-A4e73088	In standard Chess, the one who plays White has an inherent advantage over the one who plays Black.	You make a very excellent case, and I can hardly make rebuttal of it, and will accordingly make little of one and alternatively spend the more time on my own arguments. I think the best point you make would have to be citing the statistics of grandmaster games and CEGT statistics, in which white seems to have an inherent advantage indeed. I find, however, the logic in your first syllogism to be somewhat shaky; point 1 is valid; point 2 is an assumption. The Curse of the First Move While moving first may offer a definitive advantage for white, it may also offer some degree of disadvantage. White is forced to play the aggressor, to shape the game. Some players thrive in this scenario, but even the best of players may find it harder to set the pace of the game. Grandmaster Evgeny Sveshnikov remarked that white must play for checkmate, while black must play for stalemate. While many view this as an advantage to white, who then knows from the start what sorts of moves to expect from black, this same advantage works reciprocally well for black, who will likewise know exactly what sorts of moves to expect from white. Safe Following Distance The term 'safe following distance' is typically associated only with autos (at least to my knowledge), but I think can also be applied to chess. As I have mentioned before, the necessity to open gives white the disadvantage of being forced to set the pace of the game. This pace-setting posture of white gives black the opportunity to form more intricate plans, to use white's more predictable nature as an advantage. While black's moves will in some part be dictated by white, as black will have to spend a great deal of time countering white's moves, black is afforded the opportunity of adapting more quickly. This allows a sort of 'guerilla chess,' in which black can gain a distinct advantage simply by establishing a good defense and slowly attenuating white's forces at each deflected barrage. The Ironic Nature of this Debate I find myself now in a rather ironic, in my opinion, position; the best proof for either of our arguments will be decided not by the actual debate, but by the outcome of the debate. The one who wins will have proven his point in winning, rather than winning by proving his point (though I imagine the title of winner will be awarded for proof of point). Over to you, Pro. Dazzle us.	CON	186
186	Sdb654555-A91a9503a	Mind sports are some of the world's oldest and most contested competitive sports.	Mind sports play host to some of the oldest games in the world where people have played competitively. For example Chess traces its history extending back to the 6th century and it's modern competitive form began to evolve in the 15th century. Go or Weiqi has a much longer history and again has been played competitively. In addition both of these sports are contested by millions of people. Chess has a following of at around 600 million. While Go was reported to have a following of at least 27 million in 2003 [[http://osdir.com/ml/games.devel.go/2003-01/msg00040.html]], Given these sports history and number of players isn't it time that they took their place amongst other sports like Wrestling.	PRO	187
187	S49f41610-A8cc85730	Are Esports real sports	"Def. of sport: an athletic activity requiring skill or physical prowess and often of a competitive nature, as racing, baseball, tennis, golf, bowling, wrestling, boxing, hunting, fishing, etc. Skill OR Physical prowess. Playing Esports certainly requires skill of some sort. So does chess, by the way. And chess is recognized as a sport in more than 100 countries. Are you trying to tell me that playing video games requires no skill whatsoever? I'm trying to contain my laughter. ""Sports require physical exertion e sports have none whatsoever ."" Okay, so people playing Esports are completely immobile? Wow, how inaccurate I was calling you kid, by the way. Your grammar is childlike. And by childlike, I mean a little kid's."	PRO	188
188	S49f41610-A375916e4	Are Esports real sports	Lets go, kid. I think that Esports should be considered real sports, as well as Major league gaming. Chess is considered a sport. Why shouldn't Esports be?	PRO	189
189	Se2bfa5e5-A54a9b52a	Ping Pong is not the best of all sports	"I accept, and wish to prove Ping Pong better than the sport Pro presents. Pro may choose to present any sport to go against Ping Pong and prove it to be superior. You may not choose the ""parody"" of the sport but rather the sport itself. For example, my opponent may choose Chess, but may not choose ""Upside-Down Chess"" to battle against Ping Pong. However, he may still mention how many parodies Chess has and come to a conclusion that it is better than Ping Pong, having so much variaties. He may also choose to try to uphold multiple sports being better than Ping Pong, making my job harder, but making his job harder as well. Fictional sports are included for the sake of fun and challenge within this debate. Two examples are Calvinball and Pro-Bending. Sport: ""an athletic activity requiring skill or physical prowess and often of a competitive nature"". It may not have to be physical, as long as it is recognized a sport by the Olympics company or Wikipedia, it is a sport. Source: http://dictionary.reference.com... Wikipedia full list of sports: http://en.wikipedia.org..."	CON	190
190	S73090d71-A44b31424	In standard Chess, the one who plays White has an inherent advantage over the one who plays Black.	Control of the Game I apologize for not making it clearer as to the issue I take with P2. It is the bit about 'forcing moves' that I think needs alteration; in a position of defense, black can force moves just as easily as white can. I'm sure any chess player can attest to the frustration, as white, of being repeatedly unable to carry out an offensive strategy because of a simple block, and in many a case, such a failed offensive strategy leaves white at a more vulnerable position than before the beginning of the gambit. As I have said, as white is doomed to play the aggressor, his moves are more predictable (the mind may, rightly, jump to the extreme predictability of black when cornered in midgame or endgame; this is an exception to the mold of white as the more predictable), thus allowing black to anticipate white's next strategy before the current one is finished, and afford black the opportunity to, if possible, take defensive measures that offbalance white by countering both the current and next offensive. Gradually, this ability to shut down strategies in their inception takes the active forced-hand from neutral to a distinctive advantage for black, as eventually white will be sealed in, at a zugzwang position; it will be better for white to not move at all, as no strategy will not be deflected. Zugzwang I had meant to address the zugzwang position after receiving your rebuttal for my first argument, since I find your style somewhat verbose, and easier to handle if broken down into smaller parts. Thank you for reminding me. I am actually glad that my opponent should mention the zugzwang position, since it seems to me that that very position is a hole in your argument; while you may conclude that it is more advantageous to be white than not based on that advantageous move from a non-zugzwang position, I conclude the opposite about that first move. As I have thoroughly emphasized, maybe overemphasized, white's forced position as the aggressor makes his moves more predictable. Even if an unanticipated move is exacted by white, a competent opponent would take little time to interpret its significance, simply because such an opponent would understand that white was obligatorily moving as the aggressor. As the game progresses, this forced aggression takes its toll, allowing white to eventually be lured into a zugzwang position, at which point it is no longer perceptibly advantageous to be white. While I'm no master of the syllogism, certainly not like my opponent, I believe this one accurately represents my position on this particular issue: P1: Moving first forces an aggressive strategy. P2: Mandatory-aggressive strategies are easily predictable. P3: A predictable strategy is more easily-manipulated. P4: An easily-manipulable strategy may be more easily forced into a zugzwang position. P5: A zugzwang position is not advantageous. C: It is not advantageous to move first. I realize that much of that argument relies on possibility rather than certainty. However, that it is possible or even plausible for such an argument to act as true eliminates the possibility of an inherent advantage to moving first. Grandmaster Statistics As my opponent states, almost failing to do so non-victoriously, I concede the grandmaster statistics argument to him because it is excellent; the best chess players in the world, and 'perfect' simulated games by analytical computers both indicate that the player who moves first wins more frequently. That is hardly debatable. However, this is not a debate of practical application, but theory, and while the practical application may speak in my opponent's favor, it isn't at issue, and the theory has yet to be established in either way. While I should probably proceed to make another argument, stay on the offensive, I have had a harrowing day and will settle for rebutting my opponent's argument alone. The way I see it now, I have provided an at least compelling counter for each of your points. Your move.	CON	191
191	S847f0140-Ab4b378b9	Chess is not need in Schools	Hello	PRO	192
192	S60532011-Ac47c23e1	Chess should be an Olympic event.	Vote for my opponent!	PRO	193
193	S60532011-A80cf3615	Chess should be an Olympic event.	I must concede.	PRO	194
194	S60532011-A2b77ddec	Chess should be an Olympic event.	As my opponent has conceded, a vote for Con is warranted.	CON	195
195	Scb3acdd6-Ab58c595b	Does Chess Promotes Racism	What do you mean by that? -Checkers is also an international board game. -As mentioned earlier, the colors black and white are only used to describe the racism happening in America; they do not apply racism to other countries. -Checkers also come in red and black colors.	PRO	196
196	Scb3acdd6-A52c1e76f	Does Chess Promotes Racism	I agree with you xD that was my point...	PRO	197
197	Sb797e0ae-A1342f1d1	Chess is the best board game	I suppose my opponent has conceded the debate.	CON	198
198	Sb797e0ae-A30e8966a	Chess is the best board game	"I choose ""Monopoly, here and now : THE WORLD EDITION"". http://www.iqtoys.com.au... I wish good luck to my opponent and that will be all. Cheerio."	CON	199
199	Sf888e5a8-Ae4c9e849	Video Games are Sports	"Thank you for setting up this debate, I accept to argue that video games are not sports, that eSports are seperate from physical sports. Your definition of sport leaves out the bit about physical exertion that is prevalent in just about every online definition I've ever read, from Google to Merriam Webster to Dictionary.com. The definition of the noun ""sport"" according to Dictionary.com is: ""an athletic activity requiring skill or physical prowess and often of acompetitive nature, as racing, baseball, tennis, golf, bowling, wrestling, boxing, hunting, fishing, etc."" The key word here is, of course, athletic. Video games are not an athletic activity, no matter how quickly you can move your fingers. You said in your argument that professional gamers are athletes but not physical athletes, and if we take a look at the definition of ""athlete"": Merriam Webster: ""a person who is trained or skilled in exercises, sports, or games requiring physical strength, agility, or stamina"" Dictionary.com: ""a person trained or gifted in exercises or contests involving physicalagility, stamina, or strength; a participant in a sport, exercise, or game requiring physical skill."" Prize pools are impressive in eSports, but this does not contribute to the argument that eSports should be considered physical sports, I don't see how this helps your argument. Sports are competitions requiring physical exertion, and in the definition of ""sport"" listed above salary is not mentioned. How much professional gamers are paid has no bearing on whether or not video games are sports. eSports do appear on sports channels and sports news, but it is seperated from all of the other sports and addressed as ""eSports"". ESPN, the world's leading sports news source, has a section for eSports, but it is addressed just as eSports (http://www.espn.com...). This is because eSports are a subcategory of sports, they aren't the same thing, but they have a very similar competitive format. You brought up chess, saying that it is widely regarded as a sport. This is true, but there are good reasons for this. Chess requires peak mental condition, which requires one to also be in peak physical condition. To quote London Chess Conference: ""Peak mental condition requires being in good physical condition. Players need to concentrate totally for up to seven hours. As the stress and tension builds up, blood pressure, pulse and respiration rates all increase. Contenders for the world championships have nutritionists and fitness coaches."" There are numerous other reasons chess is considered a sport on that website, for example chess has been recognized as a sport by the International Olympic Comittee since 2000. In conclusion, video games are not sports, they are eSports. This is a subcategory, not the same thing, different in ways that prohibit eSports from being sports. I feel like I should clarify that I have no problem with eSports, I love eSports. I follow CoD eSports (since it's the game I discovered eSports on) and right now I'm trying to get into CS:GO and Halo's professional scenes. Sources: http://www.dictionary.com... http://www.merriam-webster.com... http://www.dictionary.com... http://londonchessconference.com..."	CON	200
200	Sf92514ac-A83322795	Chess should be encouraged in schools	I extend all of my arguments. Also, please do not forfeit next round.	PRO	201
201	Sf92514ac-Ac4e8649c	Chess should be encouraged in schools	Con has failed to provide valid reasons supporting his case and refutaiontions. I extend all of my arguments.	PRO	202
202	Sf92514ac-Aa34f9a1b	Chess should be encouraged in schools	I accecpt.	CON	203
203	S9f7eedfb-Ae6bb3a64	Chess should not be an Olympic sport	Yes. Yes I am.	CON	204
204	S9f7eedfb-Afe756b69	Chess should not be an Olympic sport	You are welcome for me to accept this challenge.	CON	205
205	S9f7eedfb-A159810ce	Chess should not be an Olympic sport	Don't you have any argument against my points?	PRO	206
206	S9f7eedfb-A3c1af667	Chess should not be an Olympic sport	Nope	CON	207
207	S9f7eedfb-Ac6529e0c	Chess should not be an Olympic sport	You're welcome.	CON	208
208	S9f7eedfb-A5b46e59	Chess should not be an Olympic sport	Are you agreeing with my statements?	PRO	209
209	S53d11035-A4475da3d	Chess should be recognized as a sport!	"You resort to immature name-calling (seriously, ""being a dick""?) and in the same breath accuse ME of poor sportsmanship? Unbelievable. And ""I have no time to debate right now""? THEN DON'T POST THE DEBATE IN THE FIRST PLACE!! And not to nitpick, but I never suggested you ""blundered a checkmate"". I suggested you blundered into a checkmate. The person actually executing the checkmate in my hypothetical did so flawlessly."	CON	210
210	S53d11035-A8c932a51	Chess should be recognized as a sport!	I accept the debate. As there is no debate structure required and BoP is on Pro as the one making the assertion I will simply use Round 1 for acceptance.	CON	211
211	S53d11035-Adfe34c5	Chess should be recognized as a sport!	You've only further proven how unsportsman-like and hostile you really are. I hope Con will exercise his right to read, and utilize some common sense while debating on this website in the future. And I again encourage any prospective voters to ignore this debate, as we shouldn't reward behavior that promotes trolling and rudeness. I wish con luck in his future debates.	PRO	212
212	S53d11035-Ae127dbfa	Chess should be recognized as a sport!	Its common practice and courtesy not to accept a debate that isn't ready. For that reason I ask any prospective judge to avoid voting one way or the other on this 'debate'.	PRO	213
213	S53d11035-A5cc997c5	Chess should be recognized as a sport!	"""You've only further proven how unsportsman-like and..."" In what way have I been unsportsman-like? I accepted an OPEN CHALLENGE, then when you backed out graciously offered a draw, then when you resorted to adolescent insults I tried to respond with logic and rational thought, to which you have once again responded with insults. ""..hostile you really are"". That one I'll cop to. I am hostile. For the reason, see previous paragraph. ""I hope Con will exercise his right to read"". I hope Pro will exercise his right to think before he posts. "" utilize some common sense while debating on this website in the future."" Don't be the Instigator for a debate you don't want!! There's some common sense!! ""shouldn't reward behavior that promotes trolling and rudeness"". Let's start with rudeness. I have not fired a single insult at you, despite you calling me a troll and ""a dick"". And somehow you suggest I'VE been the rude one?! As for trolling, let's see. You posted something online to provoke a response, had no intent of actually carrying an honest discussion of the topic you originally posted about, and when simple logic was pointed out you responded with sophomoric insults and STILL refuse to discuss your own original premise. That's right down the checklist for Hall of Fame Internet Troll, First Ballot Inductee. ""And I again encourage any prospective voters to ignore this debate"". At least there's one thing we agree on. To be honest I'm embarrassed to be a part of this debacle. And quite honestly highly disappointed. I was looking forward to a fun discussion of a game I suspect we both love. Why you had to send it so insanely off the track is beyond me. ""I wish con luck in his future debates."" And I you. Perhaps you should stick to being the Contender rather than the Instigator however, just so this situation isn't repeated with someone else. Just looking out for everyone's well-being. If you ever want to have an actual debate on this topic let me know."	CON	214
214	S53d11035-Ad5fcd7b1	Chess should be recognized as a sport!	I'll add more detail later but I'm kind of just polling to see if anyone's interested in this topic	PRO	215
215	S49f41610-Ac01137e2	Are Esports real sports	Okay first of all chess is not a sport it is even less physical exertion than e sports. Sports require physical exertion e sports have none whatsoever . They are not sports.	CON	216
216	S7a8ec54c-A2af0cc0c	Knights vs. Bishops in Chess	My opponent forfeited this round. I now move the debate to him, in the final round.	CON	217
217	S7a8ec54c-A196218ab	Knights vs. Bishops in Chess	Well, guess that's it then. I had hoped for a good discussion, but I guess not, as my opponent has forfeited this final round as well. That's the end of the debate, so I thank my opponent for at least setting it up, and wish he had continued participating.	CON	218
218	S7a8ec54c-Ad2d856e7	Knights vs. Bishops in Chess	First debate. Anyone want to challenge me in this overdone debate/argument/battle? I will be defending their equality. Rules: My opponent must have at least 3 pros for the B/N's abilities. This will remain civil, no deliberately insulting each other. No vulgar language!! (Hell is okay) Voters, chime in your opinions too, I would love to read them and give feedback!	PRO	219
219	Sc581f6c3-Ae212e5b3	Double Move Nuclear Chess	Sorry about that. My opponent should have been able to deduct that I was trying to Knc3 with my typo anyways.	PRO	220
220	Sc581f6c3-A1f526ee7	Double Move Nuclear Chess	B4 D3 (Not same pawn, I can still move 2 pawns in a row, just not same pawn two times in a row)	PRO	221
221	Sc581f6c3-A17bb599c	Double Move Nuclear Chess	RULES -2 moves per round -If a piece takes another piece, then a 3X3 area of pieces will be taken, with the middle being the piece taking the other piece -The piece that is taking will be destroyed too -King cannot take anything, isn't explosion proof -Only the pawns are explosion proof. However, they will die when they take a piece. -All pieces move normally -You cannot move the same piece 2 times in a row in a round, but you can move the same piece 2 times in a row within 2 rounds Example of what is allowed: round one a4 Kh3 round two Kg5 a5 You cannot do this: Round one a4 a5 -The king can still be checkmated, in addition to being exploded to death Round one not acceptance, go go go. I'm white, your black R=rook no annotation=pawn Q=queen K=king B=bishop KN=knight E4 Knf3	PRO	222
222	Sc581f6c3-A31d925b2	Double Move Nuclear Chess	My move: g5 Bg7 No one won the game. But my opponent still made an illegal move, so judges take that into consideration.	CON	223
223	Sc581f6c3-A1b5a1269	Double Move Nuclear Chess	e6 h6	CON	224
224	Sc581f6c3-A723a0586	Double Move Nuclear Chess	d5 Bg4	CON	225
225	Sc581f6c3-A6bc8293b	Double Move Nuclear Chess	Be3 Kc3	PRO	226
226	Sc581f6c3-Aa7202e21	Double Move Nuclear Chess	e5 Bb5	PRO	227
227	Sc581f6c3-A7d219d23	Double Move Nuclear Chess	My opponent made an illegal move, as his King cannot go to c3, since it is on e1.	CON	228
228	Sc581f6c3-A3f0f5e0e	Double Move Nuclear Chess	c6 Qa5	CON	229
229	S795e3200-Abde3f07c	Lets play chess	I concede.	CON	230
230	S795e3200-A8f3b210a	Lets play chess	I win. Such ends the most bizarre debate ever.	PRO	231
231	Sdb654555-A4d1f6509	Mind sports are some of the world's oldest and most contested competitive sports.	A huge following and a long line of tradition does not necessarily equal to being entered as an official sport to the Olympics and the Paralympic. A sport contested in O&P has to fulfill certain criteria before it can be counted as an official competition field, and there will be a lot of things that needs to be considered before adding a new field of competition. Frankly, since there are already many competitions and contests on Chess or Go, and apparently both fields are quite content with the way they're running right now, it is not urgent to add mind sports to the O&P.	CON	232
232	S73090d52-A3c5fee7f	In standard Chess, the one who plays White has an inherent advantage over the one who plays Black.	Pro. I am sorry for forfeiting our previous round. I was unable to reach a computer for a long length of time. You stated in your point one in your first argument, that 'the player who is more capable of forcing his opponents moves is in control of the game.' I believe this statement to be completely true. I am completely agreeing with you. Is the point of chess not to control the other player? You the state that white is granted this control because of the first move. There are many, many, many ways to control the white after its first move. I actually prefer to play black, as I can decide which strategy will work when they place the first piece. A first move is hesitant. They do not yet know what they want to do, so can make a fatal mistake when placing their piece. We are not arguing about professionals here. We are arguing that having the white pieces will give and advantage to ANYONE. This is not true. In your second argument, you state that it is more advantageous to be white at the start, as you can make the first move. But who is saying this is a good thing? Many people do not WANT to make the first move, as I have stated before, because it sets the whole game, as you stated before. Not small enough? Of course they are. How do we know that the ones in white weren't infinitively more experienced the ones in black? Sorry to keep you waiting. Sources: My brain.	CON	233
233	Sf888e5a8-A781bfc9b	Video Games are Sports	"Thank you for the humble response. I have checked your sources, and the definition that you provided for ""sport"" is definitely there. However, you should also put your eyes on the other definitions which also fit the criteria of video games. A second note on this, too, is that textbook definitions are dynamic.. Even if a dictionary's first entry says ""physical,"" I'm sure that it is subject to change, because there are too many other factors telling us that eSports are definitely ""sports."" You say that prize pools don't contribute to the idea of eSports being physical sports. This was not my intention; I know that video games are not especially physical! However, the prize pool certainly attests to eSports being ""true sports,"" such as your example of chess, which I will address soon. The reason that the money involved backs up the idea that they are sports is because it provides an example of how competitive they have become. It shows us that they are skill-based games that are taken very seriously at a professional level; thus, they are ""sports."" You may disagree with me due to your beliefs on the meaning of ""sports,"" but it's at that point that it becomes semantics. You say that eSports appear on a separate category, and you are correct, as they are not physical sports. They are indeed a subcategory, but they are still sports, hence e""Sports."" They are shown on ESPN because they are sports - after all, you said it yourself; they are a sports news source. It's an example of how close society is coming to accepting them as full-fledged ""sports,"" not just a subcategory; it's all for very good reason. Your quote from the London Chess Conference is very interesting. However, I argue that video games are very similar. While not always as intense (it depends on the game and importance of the specific match in question), physical readiness is always a factor in mental capability, and video games is no different in how it is required. It's all physiology, and it is very important. You also say that chess has been recognized as a sport by the International Olympic Committee since 2000, but that is irrelevant to your point. One day, video games could receive the same recognition - it may sound far-fetched to you, but it is quite plausible in retrospect. To summarize; the textbook definition of sport is dynamic and biased towards previous beliefs (those beliefs being that video games are not a sport, which is why the physical part was clarified in the first place), the prize pool of eSports serves as an example to how competitive it really is, and video games do in fact also require some form of physical preparation and readiness."	PRO	234
234	Sc4621f00-Ab629d4a	Chess (Full resolution in first round)	Looking at my opponent's account I see that this a debate she's had several times before. Knowing this, I am confident this debate will be both informative as well as entertaining. Having read into the issue over the last two days, I'm excited about this debate and the issues it will encompass. I happily accept and look forward to my opponent's opening arguments.	CON	235
235	Sc4621ea3-A141bb01e	Chess (Full resolution in first round)	Extend all arguments.	PRO	236
236	Sc4621e84-A84c9a4e1	Chess (Full resolution in first round)	Extend all arguements.	PRO	237
237	Sc4621e84-Ade747899	Chess (Full resolution in first round)	I accept!	CON	238
238	Sc4621ec2-A141bb01e	Chess (Full resolution in first round)	Extend all arguments.	PRO	239
239	Sc4621ec2-A2a5eeebc	Chess (Full resolution in first round)	I accept	CON	240
240	Sc4621e65-A2eb24e68	Chess (Full resolution in first round)	Comes down to this: IS love reason to do it or do you love what you're the best at? I love what I'm the best at, and that's doing your mother. Thanks and bye.	CON	241
241	Sc4621e65-A4b78b379	Chess (Full resolution in first round)	I accept. I want this to focus on that the efficiency of a player matters more than their love for the game.	CON	242
242	S1f6a3f53-Aa149be10	Opening up the Olympics for borderline sports is bad in itself	Opening up the Olympics for chess leads to a dangerous slippery slope. After this concession it becomes extremely difficult to draw the line for bridge, poker, or even videogames. This is problematic, because in the status quo there are many sports that are universally recognised as such (unlike those mentioned above), and yet have to be excluded from the Olympics due to lack of space. These include bandy, baseball, bowling, cricket, netball, rugby, softball and rugby. All of these already have massive support internationally and form a coherent category. As a result of this lack of space some sports are sometimes replaced, for example at the moment wrestling is not certain to take place at the 2020 Olympics with baseball and squash vying to take its place.16 Chess, bridge, and similar games, on the other hand, have a very different nature. It makes more sense for the future of both categories to draw a distinction between conventional sports on one hand, and mind games on the other. That way, as many players as possible can participate in a top level competition, with more space in the Olympics for physical sports, and competitions such as the World Mind Sports Games dedicated to mind games.17 [16] AP “Wrestling, baseball-softball, squash make 2020 Olympics short list”, CBS, 29 May 2013, http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-400_162-57586663/wrestling-baseball-softball-squash-make-2020-olympics-short-list/ [17] “History”, International Mind Sports Association. http://www.imsaworld.com/wp/about-imsa/history/	PRO	243
243	Sdb654555-Af2388332	Mind Sports Such as Chess, Quizzing and Debating Should Be Olympic Sports	Olympic sports are suppose to be physical	CON	244
244	Sdb654555-A9c5437da	Mind Sports Such as Chess, Quizzing and Debating Should Be Olympic Sports	Word mind sports already running	CON	245
245	Sdb654555-A7e23fb7	Mind Sports Such as Chess, Quizzing and Debating Should Be Olympic Sports	Mind sports are some of the world's oldest and most contested competitive sports.	PRO	246
246	S49f41610-A8fc7529	Are Esports real sports	Okay, listen here. Just as a clarification, I play badminton (sometimes competitively) and used to compete in track in field., and I play video games as entertainment. Some people play sports for entertainment as well. There are different types of video games. Not all of them are sports- RPG games cannot, but playing Esports competitively can. As someone mentioned in the comments, there are plenty of sports that require little physical conduct, like Go! or Chess, which, as I said before, is recognized as a sport in over 100 countries. You need to practice strategy and hone your skills to be able to stand a chance in a competition for these things, especially chess. Physical sports also require strategy, I got the definition from Dictionary.com. Also, I'm fairly sure that the definition of sport is not for entertainment. I mean, it could be, but many people play them professionally. There are also several other similar definitions that you can look at by scrolling down the list on this link: https://www.google.com... As Yos said, and I and many others have experienced, playing the games considered as Esports require incredible reflexes- pro gamers can even make as many as 400 moves on a keyboard per second, which is more than four times the average person. I may have been incorrect in my definition, but having good reflexes can certainly be counted as physical prowess. ESPN showcasing a gaming match further proves that it should be considered a sport. Esports teams are coached, like and pro athletic team would be, and some teams are even owned by people in the way football teams are. http://www.dailymail.co.uk... https://www.forbes.com... That's all for now, maybe we can debate this again? Thank you for this debate.	PRO	247
247	S2ac397ba-Af4e24a28	eSports should be recognized and respected as official sports	"What is a sport? The topic is widely debated throughout the world. Is cheerleading or dancing or darts a sport? Where do we draw the line? When it comes to videogames it simply is not a sport. It is a competition. Sports are defined according to every other site besides yours as, An activity involving physical exertion and skill in which an individual or team competes against another or others for entertainment"" http://www.oxforddictionaries.com... https://www.google.ca... Although many sports are competitive a competition is not defined as a sport. ""an event or contest in which people compete"" .https://www.google.ca... Videogames or egames are just a competition the same as spelling bees, checkers, chess they are not considered sports. According to ESPN president he declares that egames are not a sport. Supporting me in my arguments. http://ca.ign.com... He gives similar reasons as the ones I chose. Saying,""It""s not a sport "" it""s a competition. Chess is a competition. Checkers is a competition,"" Preparation for such events doesn't make anything a sport. I have to prepare to go to school. Yet school is not a sport. I have to prepare my mind and body to be in a state of mind to write a strong argument yet arguing is not a sport. Just because you have a skill doesn't make it a sport for both physical effort and skill is required to make something a sport. For the reasons listed above I believe it is clear why egames are not considered a sport and should not be considered a sport. Thank you. I look forward to my opponents response."	CON	248
248	S73090d52-A7b06039f	In standard Chess, the one who plays White has an inherent advantage over the one who plays Black.	"Before diving into the core of this round, I'd first like to address something rather misleading my opponent said: ""We are not arguing about professionals here. We are arguing that having the white pieces will give an advantage to ANYONE."" As was thoroughly outlined in the instigation, I am arguing that White inherently has an advantage over Black by virtue of having the first move, not that every player on planet Earth can fully utilize this advantage. One of the salient points I raised in this debate is grandmaster statistics because if White does have an inherent advantage, we'd naturally expect this to be reflected in their game records; we wouldn't necessarily expect this to be reflected in the game records of beginners or intermediate players who are prone to make mistakes and are overall not qualified to fully utilize any advantage they might have. This isn't to say, though, that beginners don't inherently have an advantage when playing the white pieces; merely, they can't fully utilize it. Tic-Tac-Toe for instance should (as we all know) result in a tie, though it's likely untrue that every Tic-Tac-Toe game between beginners results in a tie. I. Control of the Game To recap my opponent's response to this argument: he conceded the truth of the first premise, but took exception to the second by stating it is possible to control White on Black's first move. But I already addressed this in my original argument; yes, Black has certain options available to him that may necessitate certain responses from White. But even those options are inherently in response to White's first move. An opening line is not initiated by Black; it is initiated by White. My opponent has done nothing to show this is not the case. II. Initiative I hate to say it, but my opponent did very little to scratch the surface of this argument. Instead of attacking any of the three premises, he merely restates that there are some players who prefer to play Black, which is irrelevant to say the least unless these players he refers to play flawlessly. It seems he wants to object to the first premise, that it would be better to play the next move in an even, non-Zugzwang position, but offers no actual objection to it. Just imagine you and your opponent are in an even non-Zugzwang position; there are good moves you want to make; there are good moves your opponent wants to make. If it happens to be your turn, would you pass if you were legally allowed to? Of course not; there are good moves you want to make. To deny the truth of the first premise would to be to accept its absurd negation: In an even, non-Zugzwang position, the next move played, no matter how good, does not effect the outcome of the game. This is, of course, false. Every move played effects the outcome of the game and every move White plays should benefit White in some way. III. Grandmaster Statistics My opponent raises one objection to the legitimacy of the statistics I presented: perhaps the skewed win/loss ratio in White's favor is caused by an equally skewed tendency for the stronger of the two players in matches to take White. In other words, how do we know grandmasters who take White keep winning because they have an inherent advantage and not because they are coincidentally stronger than their opponents? Most importantly, that's merely calling the heavily skewed percentages a result of coincidence, which seems dubious on its face. If you take a look at my sources, you will see the sum of all games in all the examined Chess tournaments and databases exibit a win/loss ratio in White's favor. Due to the time restraints of being born mortal, I can't go through each and every game to prove White's ELO was not much higher than Black's in all the tens of thousands of games on record; but nor can my opponent prove that they were."	PRO	249
249	Sdb654555-A43c3ab0a	Mind Sports Such as Chess, Quizzing and Debating Should Be Olympic Sports	Difficult to define	CON	250
250	Sdb654555-Ad3940586	Mind Sports Such as Chess, Quizzing and Debating Should Be Olympic Sports	There are other Mental games	CON	251
251	Sdb654555-Aa234f3f4	Mind Sports Such as Chess, Quizzing and Debating Should Be Olympic Sports	Essentially different	CON	252
252	S765eba45-Af588a684	Go is an overall superior game than Chess.	"I accept the proposed definitions and terms, and would like to thank my opponent for instigating this important debate. Before we begin, I'd like to offer a brief statement concerning the subjectivity of the debate. As Pro has pointed out, subjectivity is an important factor for voters to be aware of. Although the debate is fundamentally subjective in character, hopefully we can defend the objectivity of our opinions by defending the objectivity of the process that gives rise to our opinions. That said, I can already see a problem arising if our subjective interpretation of ""objective facts"" differs. Extending Pro's example, where Pro defends Dells against Macs because they are cheaper, I might turn the argument and defend Macs because Macs are more expensive. Point is, objective facts must still be interpreted to have any weight, and that interpretation itself will be contestable. I don't have any sure answers to the problem. For my part, I will try to defend my interpretations with as little personal bias as possible, and ask Pro also remain aware of (and try to avoid) the possible bias at play in interpreting those facts. Other than that, I look forward to a fun and thought-provoking debate."	CON	253
253	S862fc413-A4b5ff763	Resolved: Bishops are superior to knights in the game of chess.	I gladly accept, and look forward to my opponent's argument.	CON	254
254	S862fc413-A1aba56b3	Resolved: Bishops are superior to knights in the game of chess.	I want to end this debate for reasons I sent via PM to my opponent.	PRO	255
255	S862fc413-Aeef0a934	Resolved: Bishops are superior to knights in the game of chess.	Unfortunately, Pro was unable to finish the debate. I was counting on using this last round to bring some of my separate and unconnected points together, and to offer a lucid summary of my position. That said, I don't want the debate to be too unfair because I had an extra round. Suffice it to say, Pro never showed that the number of positions favoring bishops surpassed the number of positions favoring knights. I just want to briefly point out, for example, that Pro himself admitted that knights dominate closed positions, and Pro never contested the fact that closed positions make up half the number of positions. That alone made my case for me, in Round 2. It's a real shame this debate ended early. It was a lot of fun, and I thank my opponent for debating this with me. And with that, I'll let the debate end early and leave the rest to the voters.	CON	256
256	S9c3af387-Adc30f0f1	American football is the most complex and strategic of all popular sports.	"I believe that American Football is the most complex and strategic of all popular sports. There are a few key words I used in this claim. 1. I specifically used the words complex and strategic. This means that football is the most layered and dynamic, and requires the highest levels of strategy and tactical execution to be successful. It does not mean it requires the most stamina or endurance, the toughest players, or the most athletically gifted players. 2. I also stated, ""of all popular sports."" This means that only popular sports can be used in counter arguments. Popular because I don't want you to bring up some exotic sport that no one has ever heard of or understands. I said sports because it can't be a game (e.g. chess, bar games). I'm not big on debate rules, so use the rounds however you please. Good luck."	PRO	257
257	S37b8c7d-A24131ac4	is chess a skill that all people should know	That's like saying everyone should take painting classes because the act of painting is a skill which forces different parts of the brian to be activated and used. So should we all take painting classes?	CON	258
258	S37b8c7d-A4595bfa9	is chess a skill that all people should know	Sure, I of course agree with you. But then I could say that when you make a mistake in painting that it helps people let go and not take life too seriously. I could say how perfect painting technique teaches discipline. How using different color paint creates a synergy that nothing else can create and it teaches people a lot about themselves, other people, and that these are important life lessons. But, nevertheless, I will not want others to be forced to paint or say it is a necessary skill, etc. I might consider your idea as training for a vocation as a military commander or surgeon etc. but not especially for a scientist or musician..	CON	259
259	S720c2b45-Ab7d2111d	The Bishop is better than the Knight in a game of chess	Thanks for the debate and prompt reply BillBonJovi. R1. When there is much closed space on the board, the Knight is far superior to the bishop. Thus, in the early game, a Knight is central for clearing out the opposition. Very true, the bishop has an advantage over time. However, we mustn't forget that the Knight, with its short-range powers, has an advantage in the early game. Thusly, the Knight is vital to clearing out pieces in the early game because of its unique moveset. Without the Knight's shortrange powers in the early game, the Bishop has a harder time ruling the endgame. Endgame: When did we say anything about two bishops? That should invalidate your point right there. But, to add a bit more, even though a bishop can influence both wings simultaneously, this makes him extremely difficult to maneuver. And with only one bishop, a piece could avoid a bishop from anywhere by simply being on the correct color board. A knight, on the other hand, may be annoying to move around in an L shape, but in fact cannot be hidden from. A knight can move almost anywhere with a few moves. Thus Knights are also useful in the Endgame. R3. Using his Wikipedia source, PRO presents a biased list. In the system used by a computer, a Bishop is worth 0.5 less than a knight. PRO makes it easy to see his bias. I await a response.	CON	260
260	S720c2b45-Aaffa3a6b	The Bishop is better than the Knight in a game of chess	Thanks for the debate BillBonJovi. Since my opponent made no data to argue in R1, I will let him start in Round 2. Using the Bluesteel technique.	CON	261
261	S720c2b45-Afb9fb5ca	The Bishop is better than the Knight in a game of chess	Something.	CON	262
262	Sf888e5a8-A55a61640	Video Games are Sports	"It is a controversial topic that sparks feuds from both sides of the coin; are video games really sports? However, many fail to note a plethora of points and concepts that more than confirm the idea that video games sports. The definition of sports, although varying with different diction and colloquialism across many textbooks, is ""a game played either as recreation or competition."" The argument is not semantics. Just as you can hunt game for sport, you can play video games as a sport. Whether it is physically taxing or not is irrelevant - as an example, the game of chess is widely accepted as a sport, but the game is a battle of not physical, but mental stamina. Those who play the game are indeed ""athletes"" - just not physical athletes - these video game athletes are playing sports. Video games have been gradually becoming accepted as sports, making appearances on sports channels and news worldwide. The professional scene in what is now being referred to as ""eSports"" is no joke - the prize pools for games such as Dota 2 or Halo 5: Guardians have been large, from a wallet-pleasing two million USD to a bank-crushing twenty million USD. These prizes compete with what many professional baseball or basketball players can make in a year; to say that these eSports cannot qualify as ""true sports"" is ludicrous. All around the world, there are many arguing for or against the idea that video games are sports. Only one side is correct. Due to the nature of video games, their current professional standings, and the definition of what a sport really is, it is factual that video games are a sport. Information on eSports prize pools: http://www.esportsearnings.com... Information on physical sport salaries: https://en.wikipedia.org..."	PRO	263
263	S2ac397ba-A11529f2f	eSports should be recognized and respected as official sports	"Alright time to get down to work here. Your argument is now based on the fact that there are other less physical competitions that are considered sports however there is some problems with that. Should we start drawing the line on what a sport is? By definition there are already games that are considered sports that shouldn't be. Such as pokers, chess, and the only one important in this debate videogames. Let's examine virtual verses reality. Every sport that is a sport has interactions between two or more people. Someone you can touch and interact face to face with. Egames does not have such teamwork as hockey, basketball, Soccer or any other ""classic"" or real sports. Stressful situations does not make something a sport. If you can make a good comparison between a classic sport and egames we may have something. However all we have is people glued to monitors. If esports is going to be considered a sport all videogames will become a sport. Rough and tumble interactive skilled sports is what has been the sports since the beginning. From the stoneware when ancient hunters would hunt wooly mammoths, sports have been around since ancient times. It is not time to make a virtual reality where what I watch on TV is other people watching a screen. For the definition of sports and the difference between reality and virtual it is clear that now is not the time to confuse the two. http://mp1st.com..."	CON	264
264	S27052130-Af9b7940a	Pro is a more skilled and strategic chess-player than Con	Hi!	PRO	265
265	S27052130-A5959845f	Pro is a more skilled and strategic chess-player than Con	Alright! I will link my chess.com account profile to compare my stats. Since I do not know cons stats, I request he provide evidence this round that he is better than I am. http://www.chess.com...	PRO	266
266	Sb71caf00-Aad08090e	is it racist that white piece gets the first chance to move in chess game	i believe there are some set of rules that are made that is why white pieces always move first and there is no point whatsoever of racism involved in this and these are convention we must follow and not challenge them	CON	267
267	Sb71caf00-Aa699256a	is it racist that white piece gets the first chance to move in chess game	AHAH! This white wing racist has finally come to realize the error of his white supremacist ways	PRO	268
268	Sb71caf00-Abfd6fe78	is it racist that white piece gets the first chance to move in chess game	challenge accepted.	PRO	269
269	S71c14982-A679e1c6d	People Who 'Know How To Play Chess' Are Just Pretending	Ok.	CON	270
270	S71c14982-A425cc354	People Who 'Know How To Play Chess' Are Just Pretending	Are just pretending to do or be what?	CON	271
271	S71c14982-A679e1c6d	People Who 'Know How To Play Chess' Are Just Pretending	Ok.	CON	272
272	S71fdfa0c-A54a412f9	Webster University has the best University chess team in the United States	I extend my arguements from last round.	PRO	273
273	S71fdfa0c-Aa71aafdc	Webster University has the best University chess team in the United States	Heya!	PRO	274
274	S71fdfa0c-Aea4cf4e2	Webster University has the best University chess team in the United States	I accept your challenge	CON	275
275	Sf7d2f477-Abf392e59	Sports should be compulsory for every child over 5.	"Well, were at the end of the debate. I would like to thank KRFournier for debating this with me. 1.The resolution violates individual freedom. My opponent claims it is a violation of personal freedom, but do most parents know what's best for their children?? Alot of parent's spoil their children, because they love them. But this can lead to obesity levels that they can become unaware of. It's the governments job to make sure that parent's give their child a seat belt and a child seat if needed. Why? Because a parent could forget to put a child's seat belt on or because they're crying that they have it on, and all parents want a quiet car ride. When a car crash would happen, the child would have the highest chance of dying. because of a parent's ignorance. Thankfully, most parent's are smart enough to put a seat belt on a child. I'm not questioning you're parenting skills, my parent's or any parents who may read this, but the knowledge of the parent. If the parent spoils the child uneededly, the child can develop diabetes or become obese for life. In alot of cases the parent stands idly by until they're older years. So, if the government intervenes for the good of the child in seat belt safety to protect their lives, why don't they government intervene health wise to protect it's future voters and citizens? 2. The resolution is impractical. You go to a but too far in you're wording of this argument 'should the government step in to ""save"" parents from themselves'. it's not saving parents from themselves. Forcing the parent to work 9-5 Monday - Saturday. Whilst their child sits in a government run school/crï¿½che is the idea you put forward of 'saving' parents from themselves. It's not saving parent's if they're kids go to sports 3 days a week at most. Let's also remember that this in some cases can give parents a well deserved break from their child 3 days a week in some cases. 3. The resolution is too vague. My opponent's point is what do we call a sport and what we don't call a sport. Obvious contenders are American football, baseball, basketball, soccer, hockey, etc. It should depend on what the local area can provide a child. We shouldn't need legislation saying that x is a sport and y isn't. Online dicitionary.com says that sports is 'an athletic activity requiring skill or physical prowess and often of a competitive nature'. If a community centre can offer a child a choice of Basketball, Dancing or ice hockey, those are his and his parents options. This eliminates you're example of TV trivia which isn't an 'athletic activity' nor is marbles, whilst 'it is of a competitive nature' and 'requires skill', it isn't athletic. Local jurisdiction should apply. to your area, to my opponent's area and to my area. Defense of my arguments: 1. It will tackle obesity levels. My opponent submits that if the reasoning of sports is applied, so should eating salad. But, my opponent obviously skipped my justification. Alot of children play sports. Introducing this will make little change to the normal life of a child. But I would say only a minority of children choose to eat salad at lunch or choose to it it outside of meals. You can't regulate what a person eat. Sports can tackle an obesity rate effectively. But will salad. Salad can be more harmful than good in some cases. Pre-made salad can often be filled with salt and sugar. As well, kids are going to want meat with salad, and the dressing . And the dressing would defeat the purpose of eating the salad in the first place. I'll give you an example of thousand island salad dressing http://caloriecount.about.com.... On the website it gives you nutrional information on the dressing. As you can see it's high in sugar and calories, which would add to the problem, not fix it. But sports does nothing but good to one health, apart from breaking or spraining body parts, which doesn't happen in every game, or even every year. 2. It will help children socialise. There are benefits to children socialising. firstly, I have yet another health benefit. Children who socialise are normally healthier as they catch illness' like Flu and colds, which make their immune system more resilient - http://en.wikinews.org.... As well, chicken pox is best caught at an early age as it is more severe amongst adults and deadly amongst pregnant women - http://en.wikipedia.org... It can also leave children in a better state of mind. Think about it. Young children, who don't have much interaction with a friend, usually just parents, siblings and the occasional cousins. because of this they develop imaginary friends. This is harmless and common amongst young children. But it can have severe affects amongst teenagers and adults, which can lead them to do bad things and think they're bad people. As my opponent requested, that is my justification. 3. It will benefit students in other ways, such as academically. My opponent asks, 'why sports are mandatory and not parental involvement in study hours, tutoring programs, or the P.T.A.' It's for a simple reason. When students go to school, they have teachers who teach them. When they're assigned homework, they have been given it assuming that they can be left to their own devices and find the answers with the help of a textbook. I'm not denying that a parental role makes a huge difference. Yes, in languages a textbook won't teach you everything, it is sometimes critical for a parent to help. But parents have to work a 9-5 job and some don't get home 'till as late as 6.00. And students can't be denied a social life,and you can only agree with me on that. So if a teen finishes their homework at 5.30 before the parent comes home, the parent can't help their child. Whereas sports are usually run locally so the child can get their independently in most cases. My justification is that not all parents can help a student academically on their schedule, but can support them in a sport. My opponent also raise the question 'why sports are to be mandatory but not other beneficial regiments'. Well why not? Debating vastly improves one's English and Chess stimulates one's brain. But these are learnt skills. Sports can be started from a young age because its easily learnt. Whereas debating and chess take time to learn and perfect. Yes, it's not easy to get good at a sport. Some are more naturally gifted than other, but it can be started from a young age giving everyone a fair shot. Whereas debating and chess can depend on your background and education. My opponent advocates that the government should protect it's citizens from external threats only, not internal ones. But where's the limit. If you're forced to wear a seat belt, are you being protected from internal or external threats? The answer is both. It protects you from you're/ someone else's careless driving. Implementing compulsory sport not only saves yourself from disease and gives you a somewhat better lifestyle, it also protects others from you by making sure they don't have to keep paying you're hospital bills every time your heart fails on you because you 'can't' quit McDonald's. To conclude, I'll say this. The idea is for the greater good of society. I have shown you that it has more benefits than just tackling obesity. It can reduce disease amongst children, bring out the best in their studies and it is justifiable by these points, and that it can reduce health care costs. The only argument against this is that it violates personal freedoms and liberties, but so many children already do sports, and like wearing seat belts, it is for a greater cause over time and at the loss of a few hours a week to a child, will give them a better life, physically, mentally and academically."	PRO	276
276	S39b05927-A36820081	Favoritism to sports teams rather than academics	In Odessa and Midland Texas Friday Night Lights took place. In those small towns sports is all they have. They don't have big academic programs. Sports like football is really all they have. Because of that the school administration gives more money to sports because sports is there world. This is the same in other small towns all over America. I am not saying thats what happens in every town. I do understand that academic programs do deserve funding but do they bring in money for the school? No they don't. But sports does regardless if they are good or bad. High Q does not bring in money for the school debate does not bring in money but Football does. Volleyball Basketball Soccer all of them do. When was the 1st time you saw cheerleaders cheering at a Chess Match? Or during and Extemp round for Speech and Debate? Or even at an Academic Decathlon competition? Never you never see any cheerleaders there. You don't see people sitting in Extemp rounds pumping up the speaker. Or rooting for the next move. Because these events are not popular or events where you can take of your shirt (if your a guy) and paint the letters of your school on your chest. No one cares. If the school can not make money off of your club sport or organization then why spend money and not make any? Also some things need more money especially if they are not the best sports team to get better.	CON	277
277	S73090d14-A5510059d	In standard Chess, the one who plays White has an inherent advantage over the one who plays Black.	Typically, I dislike it when I see debates in the challenge period that are impossible to accept until the instigator chooses someone, but I'm starting to see the appeal of it now. Sigh... extend everything I said.	PRO	278
278	S73090d14-A41ff7bba	In standard Chess, the one who plays White has an inherent advantage over the one who plays Black.	I accept this. I disagree but can't say this round...	CON	279
279	S73090d14-Ac2fb5726	In standard Chess, the one who plays White has an inherent advantage over the one who plays Black.	Extend once again. Anyone want to actually debate this resolution? Go ahead and leave a comment if you do.	PRO	280
280	S73090d52-A40455750	In standard Chess, the one who plays White has an inherent advantage over the one who plays Black.	Ah for chrissake... I'll never get a good debate out of this resolution... extend all that stuff I said.	PRO	281
281	S73090d52-A1d51f038	In standard Chess, the one who plays White has an inherent advantage over the one who plays Black.	I accept the definitions and rules the pro had put forward.	CON	282
282	S73090d71-Aa0073627	In standard Chess, the one who plays White has an inherent advantage over the one who plays Black.	While this may be a disappointing answer, I make it anyway. I've as good as lost the debate, and never expected to win in the first place. I did find one or two flaws in Dakota's final argument, but I doubt I could make any case that would hold water; from the introduction of the grandmaster statistics, Dakota had won. Well played sir, well played.	CON	283
283	S73090d71-A1f72663b	In standard Chess, the one who plays White has an inherent advantage over the one who plays Black.	I graciously accept your challenge, Dakota, and thank you for the welcome back. I naturally accept your terms, and will try not to take it personally that the definitions are heavily redundant and repetitive. As the burden of proof is on the Pro, it need be understood that I am not obligated to make a case for why white moving first does not give it an inherent advantage, merely to counter any argument that Pro makes. Might I make the request that in the last round, new arguments not be made? I look forward to an engaging debate.	CON	284
284	S73090d33-Aecfc1bf4	In standard Chess, the one who plays White has an inherent advantage over the one who plays Black.	Posting this to speedy up the ending of the debate.	CON	285
285	S73090d33-Af818546b	In standard Chess, the one who plays White has an inherent advantage over the one who plays Black.	/debate	PRO	286
286	S73090d33-Ae5d4d915	In standard Chess, the one who plays White has an inherent advantage over the one who plays Black.	End debate	CON	287
287	S73090d33-A88272ce7	In standard Chess, the one who plays White has an inherent advantage over the one who plays Black.	I'm really sorry. I've realised I'm way in over my head with this debate. It doesn't help that on Sunday afternoon I also suffered a seizure which means I'm nothing like able to form any kind of structured, coherent argument. As such, I concede this debate to Pro, and advise him to start this debate again with someone who'll be able to give him the quality of debate he deserves. My deepest apologies, Jon	CON	288
288	S73090d33-Abe98a8a6	In standard Chess, the one who plays White has an inherent advantage over the one who plays Black.	Very sorry to hear that happened to you, Jon. Hope you get better soon.	PRO	289
289	Sf7d2f477-A4403e382	Sports should be compulsory for every child over 5.	"My thanks go to I-am-a-panda for this interesting topic. I am accepting the Con position that sports should not be compulsory for every child over 5 years old. My Argument ----------- (I will prefix my arguments with ""Con"" to make them distinct from my opponent's points.) Con-1. The resolution violates individual freedom. While exercise is found to be beneficial in many ways, compelling children to play them violates the personal freedoms of both child and parent. Unless it can be shown that not bettering oneself threatens the life, liberty, and pursuit of happiness of others, then we cannot in good conscience strip away such liberties simply because it would be nice if everyone were healthier. Con-2. The resolution is impractical. Enforcing the resolution would be costly to taxpayers. Public schools would need additional funding for their athletic/competition programs. More money would also be needed to regulate and enforce the new legislation. The tax burden of citizens will have to be increased to underwrite these additional costs, or other social programs will have to be cut. Furthermore, the government would have to establish complex codes involving wavers and exceptions. It must decide what constitutes being too sick, too disabled, too dysfunctional, too talented in other areas, etc. Should a piano prodigy be compelled to risk injury to his valuable hands playing contact sports? Con-3. The resolution is too vague. As my opponent says, there are many kinds of sports. The government would have to define acceptable sports. On the one hand, the government could be very broad and allow all kinds of sports such as sumo-wrestling, chess, marbles, video game competitions, knitting, drama, TV trivia, math competitions, and so on. In this case, why bother legislating it at all? On the other hand, the government could be very selective and limit it to only football, soccer, basketball, or baseball. Surely in this case we could expect lawsuits from citizens complaining that their favored sport was excluded. My Rebuttal ----------- 1. It will tackle obesity levels. There are many ways to tackle obesity. A healthy diet is one way, so why not make it compulsory to eat salads every day for lunch? Not smoking is an excellent way to prevent heart disease, so perhaps we should make smoking illegal. Even breast feeding infants can help reduce heart disease later in life (http://www.webmd.com...), so we should ban formula feeding while we're at it. By applying my opponent's logic to other areas of health, I am showing the absurdity of it. There are many ways to be healthy and avoid obesity. So if we make one way compulsory, why not all ways? 2. It will help children socialize. Sports do help children socialize. However, I'd like to see justification for the moral position that children ought to socialize. It may be healthy. It may be beneficial. But is it immoral not to socialize? If not, then why should the government legislate it? 3. It will benefit students in other ways, such as academically. My rebuttal here is similar to my rebuttal of the proponent's first point. Studies show that parents have a large role in academic success (http://www.usatoday.com...), so should we compel parents to sit down and do school work with children or force them to join the P.T.A.? A family's economic standing also plays a significant role in a child's academic success, so perhaps the government should guarantee a minimum income to boot. My opponent says sports provide other benefits, such as the development of a child's talents, stamina, dexterity, and so forth. Indeed, sports do all these things. But reading books improves language and critical thinking skills, so let's make reading mandatory. Debating on www.debate.org improves logical analysis and typing skills, so the government should force all young people to join the site right now. My opponent, you see, does not consider the implications of this thinking. There are so many ways for an individual to improve, be it physically, mentally, spiritually, or what have you. It is not the government's role to decide which way is most ideal, nor is it the role of government to force people to be better. Unfortunately, we must leave self betterment in the hands to which it belongs, the person. This brings me to my opponent's larger argument. My opponent says that the resolution will benefit society, but does so without qualification. What makes a society replete with thinner, more social, talented people better? Furthermore, what justifies such a pursuit? Is it a moral requisite to desire such a society, or are we simply discussing a society my opponent prefers? My opponent has, without a doubt, good intentions. I completely agree that sports are a great way to improve one's lifestyle and chances of success. But I have shown how compelling children to play sports at the expense of our personal freedom comes at too great a cost. I have shown that such an idea is impractical for the government to sponsor. I have shown that ""sports"" is too vague a notion to properly legislate. Finally, I have shown how my opponent's arguments fail to take into account their logical implications."	CON	290
290	Sf7d2f477-Add9fe29	Sports should be compulsory for every child over 5.	"I thank my opponent for his quick and thorough response. Defense of my arguments ---------------------------------- Con-1: The resolution violates individual freedom. My opponent rebuts my argument by pointing out that children have already lost their freedoms by compulsory school attendance. Not only is this absolutely true, but I think it's just as much an atrocity as the notion of compulsory sports. For you see, mandatory school is not for the benefit of society, but for the benefit of industry. John Gatto, 1990 New York City Teacher of the Year and 1991 New York State Teacher of the Year--indicted the public school system for teaching kids how to conform to a capitalist, industrialist society rather than for the betterment of their lives or the betterment of society. (Much of his book Dumbing us Down can be seen here: http://books.google.com...). If anything, my opponent's rebuttal only serves to strengthen my argument. His logic is this: since we already take away freedoms for the good of the child, let's take more. My child's freedom to run outside to play or sit inside to watch a movie belongs entirely to her and her parents, not to Uncle Sam. Freedom of choice is of greater value than overall reduced child obesity in society. Con-2: The resolution is impractical. Indeed, families with healthy children have less medical expenditures than families with obese children or children with childhood diabetes. Until Obama institutes his national health care plan, families are taking the lion's share of the burden insofar as unhealthy kids are concerned. This brings us back to the same old argument: should the government step in to ""save"" parents from themselves, or is responsibility already properly placed in the hands of adults? Con-3: The resolution is too vague. My opponent asks why TV trivia or marbles could be sport, which is precisely my point. My opponent does not specify what constitutes a sport versus a hobby or pastime. My point was that such a classification would have to be decided upon by our legislatures. If they get too broad, then legislation is pointless. If it's too narrow, then the legislation is vulnerable to litigious response. Defense of my rebuttals -------------------------------- 1. It will tackle obesity levels. My opponent says it's less absurd to force kids to play sports than to force them to eat salads, but he does not give any justification to this response. He simply says this is so, and I guess we take it on good faith. I submit that the reasoning behind compulsory salad eating is the very same reasoning behind compulsory sports. The underlying presupposition of my opponent's arguments is that the government should take charge of people's well being, and my arguments aim to show that his presuppositions are not justified. 2. It will help children socialize. My opponent misunderstood my rebuttal, so I will attempt to clarify it. My opponent tells us that one such benefit of sports is that it helps children socialize. That's all he says. He doesn't say why this is important, good, or beneficial. He just says that it is. In other words, he wants us to accept the assumption that children socializing with other children is good. My rebuttal is tantamount to saying, ""So what?"" I'm asking my opponent to substantiate this argument by showing why socializing children is so important. Furthermore, if he can show this, then he must also answer whether or not sports are essential towards this end. There are many ways to socialize children, and it should be incumbent upon the parents--not the government--to socialize their children… assuming of course that socializing children is indeed as vital as my opponent would like us to believe. 3. It will benefit students in other ways, such as academically. My opponent's rebuttal relies on the benefits of sports for a child's well being, and he offers a good source to back his claim. I have no issue with his assessment of the value of sports in a child's life. What I am concerned with is my opponent's belief that because sports have so many positive attributes, that we must force all children to do them. If it is indeed true that parents play a large role in academic success, then my opponent must explain why sports are mandatory and not parental involvement in study hours, tutoring programs, or the P.T.A. Also, I did not claim that all children should be forced to join this website. Again, my opponent either misuses or misunderstands my argument. I was extending his rational to the extreme. To reword my argument, since sports are beneficial for the body, then why not include mandatory membership of a debate club, chess team, gymnasium, nutrition program, or counselor? In other words, I'm asking my opponent to answer why sports are to be mandatory but not other beneficial regiments. At the core of this entire debate is this: who is responsible for the well being of society's members? My opponent believes the government is responsible and should become a messiah state, saving people from their self destructive ways. I believe the government should protect its citizens from external threats, not internal ones. My opponent's view, while honorable in its end does not justify its means. Compulsory sports impede too much on personal liberty. Therefore, sports should not be compulsory for every child over 5."	CON	291
291	S9c3af387-A48bb1a58	American football is the most complex and strategic of all popular sports.	"Rebuttals ""I have already explained that the roles in football are not dynamic at all."" I should have clarified. I meant that your argument was that the roles themselves were more dynamic in other sports, whereas I was stating the variety of roles in football is what makes it dynamic. Furthermore, regarding complex roles, it could be easily argued that the single most complex and dynamic role in all of sports is the quarterback. ""I am not psychoanalyzing the player."" I wasn't referring to the player, I was referring to the role. I claimed that the sport of football is more complex, whereas you seem to be claiming that the roles in other sports are more complex. ""This is like saying that quantity is always better than quality."" Regarding complexity, quantity is absolutely one of the defining characteristics. The more variables the more complex. A complex mechanism is one that has many different moving parts, regardless of how simple each part (role) may be. Even you stated that the specific roles in other sports are more complex because they require the player to take on more responsibilities. More being the operative word. ""You can't have a complex sport without complex roles."" Of course you can. That's like saying you can't have a complex watch without complex gears. Let's say that hockey has 3 roles, A, B, C, and football has 11 roles, D - N. Even if roles A, B, C are more complex than D-N, the fact that 11 different roles in football have to execute in concert with one another makes it a more complex entity as a whole. At the very least it makes them equally complex, just in different ways. It's like comparing doing one hard thing versus doing many different easy things at the same time. ""I also argued that individually these plays are not that unique and not very difficult to execute."" You could not be more wrong in this regard. The plays are incredibly unique, many showing no resemblance to the others at all. There is far, FAR more variety of plays in football than in any other sport. And because of the amount of moving parts in every play (all the different roles) many plays are very difficult to execute properly. This is why 5 year old's play soccer and baseball, but they don't even start incorporating passing plays into football games until high school. Strategy This will have to be much briefer than I hoped. In short, because of the complexity in football (amount of roles, plays, rules, scoring), we see the highest levels of strategy in football. In no other sport are the coaches more involved with every play than in football. You have the head coach, O-coordinator, D-coordinator, and they are all responsible for choosing every play in the game. The play depends entirely on the situation (score, field position, time, down and distance). In any other sport plays are only drawn up during time outs, and they are very basic in nature (pass to this guy, pick 'n roll, and shoot), then the rest of the game is mostly improvisation, not strategy. In football, the set plays allow the game to proceed like a chess match. Each team has a chance to stop and think about the situation, pick the best play out of hundreds, line up and see who made the better call. Think about how much talk there was about Pete Carrol's passing call in the Super Bowl. I can't think of any other sport in which the coaches decision regarding a specific play is so impactful and scrutinized. In summary, football is the most complex sport because no other sport has as much variety in roles, plays, rules, and scoring. Even if you agree with Con regarding the roles, that's still 3 of 4 in favor of football. Football is the most strategic of sports for two primary reasons: 1. A large variety of roles and plays allows for a larger variety of strategies, which puts a higher emphasis on strategy. 2. The set plays allow the teams to contemplate and execute their strategy more clearly and effectively. I would like to thank Con for a solid debate."	PRO	292
292	Sdb654555-Ae42d7476	Word mind sports already running	The first world mind sports games were held in 2008. The Olympics does not need to include 'mind sports' since 'mind sports' have their own platform. [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_Mind_Sports_Games]]	PRO	293
293	Sdb654555-Ac374081b	Word mind sports already running	Albeit if the Olympics included mind sports then the other competition would gain no momentum and not snatch away crowds from the Olympics. Since the World mind sports games are held around the Olympics, they target Olympic crowds/audiences. The games are using the Olympics to get fame and fortune and it is best for the Olympic games to feature their own mind sports.	CON	294
294	Sf888e5a8-A50c9c5ee	Video Games are Sports	After reading your argument, I conclude that it's incredibly solid. I concede that at some point, video games will be considered sports at the same level of competitive physical sports. At the moment, eSports is not widely regarded as a sport outside of the eSports community (I'd personally have no problem with it being accepted as a real sport, but that has no bearing on the argument), as the president of ESPN said that video games are a competition rather than a sport, and Colin Cowherd publicly voiced his disdain for competitive gaming at the professional level on his show, The Herd (although it may be worth noting that these men were born in the 1950s and 60s respectively). Thanks to pro for showing me the reasons why you think the way you do, you have officially swayed me. I concede.	CON	295
295	S49f41610-A80209d4a	Are Esports real sports	First of all This is a friendly debate so no trash talk please. Second I never said E-sports require no skill. On the contrary they require a lot of skill, but what I have problem with is that people consider them athletic to be an athlete. To be an athlete you have to physically train to be better at your sport but with E-sports you may train for your competition but it has no physical value. Def. of a sport an activity involving physical exertion and skill in which an individual or team competes against another or others for entertainment. See you have to have physical exertion. You may have some physical exertion in e sports from moving your hands but you have more physical sleeping than you do in e sports. So could I set up a competitive sleeping competition and then it would be classified as a sport? No! sleeping is not a sport and therefore neither are e sports. https://www.recode.net... https://www.theodysseyonline.com... https://www.reddit.com...	CON	296
296	S49f41610-Af83340d6	Are Esports real sports	E sports are not real sports you sit at a computer and hit the keys where as real sports you are actually doing something. I think it is outrageous that people consider these real sports.	CON	297
297	S2ac397ba-A84e5f387	eSports should be recognized and respected as official sports	Before I begin this summary I would to say that it has been great debating with you and apologize for taking so long to reply, the holidays had caught me up. Now, on the main topic. eSports should very well be respected as a sport in my eyes and definitely in the eyes of every proclaimed professional athlete participating in these games. It is obvious that sports can be defined by not only Physical effort, but expert mental prowess (e.g. Poker), which is shown throughout many eSports such as League of Legends, Counter-Strike, and Starcraft. These players in the top of these sports lead the top of the 1% of players who even manage to make it to this level of play, putting in countless hours of practice to remain respected and good. With these points in mind, I say we respect these eSports as Sports.	PRO	298
298	S2ac397ba-A75a7a388	eSports should be recognized and respected as official sports	Thank you for being timely and never forfeiting. This is quite a hot topic to dig through. I would like to finish off by saying that esports should not be considered a sport because of all the reasons above. These include Differences between sport and competition The actual definition of sport, The lack of physical or real world communication So in conclusion, for all the athletes that have made there way to the top by hard work and physical conditions that believe sports should stay in the real world, I personally believe that sports should stay physical. My name is Brian N. Johnson, thank you for your time.	CON	299
299	S2ac397ba-Af92415e0	eSports should be recognized and respected as official sports	"You do bring some interesting information to table, but I can bring some counter-arguments to your statements. You said eSports are a competition. This is true, and as you said many sports are also competitions in your third paragraph. By saying this we can say some activities can be Sports while still being a sport. I see eSports as the same way, and some others do too. I could argue Poker is a competition, but it is respected as a sport. ESPN even recognizes it as a sport and there is not much a physical aspect to it. Poker is a mental sport, you must be focused and smart, much like eSports. Going on with the topic of ESPN, and what the John Skipper said. He may say that eSports are not sports. He can have his opinions, but officially the U.S does recognize eSports as Sports, and Foreign players from places as far as Asia, Europe, and even Africa coming to the U.S for gaming tournaments can get Visas with the identifier, ""Professional Athlete""[1] For my last point this round I would like to bring Razer's eSports associate manager Drew Holt-Kentwell's words on this matter into it. He says,""According to Merriam Webster, a 'sport' is 'a contest or game in which people do certain physical activities according to a specific set of rules and compete against each other, eSports is a competition, absolutely. Moreover, gaming athletes have to train bodily and mentally to be competitive or they lose. eSports requires extraordinary coordination, hyper-fast reflex responses, teamwork, and physical and mental dexterity and endurance "" often for extended periods of time under the pressure of strictly enforced game rules."" He then goes on to say, ""The legitimacy of a sport really comes down to its cultural impact, adding that professional gamers are already recognized for work visa purposes for competitive events just like real-world athletes."" [2] If these players are being recognized on this level by governments, then why should they not be recognized by networks such as ESPN, and the people of the U.S. http://www.forbes.com...[1] http://www.polygon.com...["	PRO	300
300	S2ac397ba-A46a51fb2	eSports should be recognized and respected as official sports	"Thank you for accepting this debate Briannj17, I look forward to arguing this topic with you. For my first point I would like to define the noun sport. The definition by dictionary.com is, ""an athletic activity requiring skill or physical prowess and often of a competitive nature, as racing, baseball, tennis, golf, bowling, wrestling, boxing, hunting, fishing, etc.""[1]. Notice how it says an athletic activity requiring skill OR physical prowess. I bring this point because I find many people argue the point that eSports are not physical enough, and that anyone could do it. I can prove this false. Professional eSport players are not able to just jump in and be good. Many pros put in thousands of hours of work. They practice and scrim all day long to prepare for tournaments. Team Liquid claims to practice at least 50 hours a week, and team liquid isn't even great compared to some eSports legends. In the same article it is said two players (Known for being very good) often sleep only four hours a night and practice between 12 and 14 hours per day.[2] eSports players can also very easily lose jobs. Often esports are even watched more than large tournaments of what people consider, ""Real Sports"" as shown in this graph [3].When signed players are often given a gaming house to live in with the team while playing for them. They are expected to practice all day, only taking breaks to eat and sleep.[4] These teams can drop them at anytime. These players have to fight to stay on these favorable teams. Under performing can lose them a spot, lose them a tournament, lose them money, or even lose them a job. This is not even mentioning the constant flaming people get from sources of social media causing many players to leave the eSports scene from the constant berating. An example for this would be Dyrus from TSM (Team SoloMid). He underperformed a few games, got flamed by reddit, and eventually left because he felt he was letting people down. The same thing happened to TSM's old mid laner Reginald. This shows how stressful eSports can be. All of these elements together along with the competitive element and faithful community should show why eSports should be recognized as an actual sport. http://dictionary.reference.com... [1] http://www.businessinsider.com... [2] http://espn.go.com...[3] http://espn.go.com...["	PRO	301
301	Sf7d2f477-Ae28e4eb1	Sports should be compulsory for every child over 5.	Firstly In would like to thank KRFournier for accepting this debate and laying down some valid points. I will begin with rebuttal: 1. You say it's stripping someone of their liberties to force sports on them. This may be true, but then why is it not violating their freedoms to force them to go to school? It's because it's for the greater good of society. It's because it betters children and leaves in a better standing than before. 2. You say it is impractical. You claim it will cost the taxpayer more money to bring this in. But won't families/the state save on health care because over the long run, less heart disease and heart operation will be performed, saving cash in the thousands.But who says parents can't go splits on it? Sure, some families can't afford it, thats where the state comes in, but most parents are already paying for sport and many other activities for their children out of their own pocket. In our current economic climate I agree we cannot bring it in. But in 10 years when the economic boom comes then surely it is feasable. You say the government must decide who can and can't play sports. But these things are already in place. There are medical tests readily available to check if a child is feasable for sport. Yes, a piano prodigy shoudn't have to play contact sport to risk an arm breakage, but did I say he had to?? I mention a plethora of sports, ones such as Soccer which require little effort from you're hands (bar the goalkeeper). 3. Why on earth would marbles or TV trivia be considered a sport?? I feel a local level would be satisfactory, because whereas Alaska would consider Ice hockey its state sport, other parts would consider it Basketball, other American football, etc. It should be what the local authorities feel neccessary, and what local centres and schools can offer kids. Rebuttal on your rebuttal: 1. You say that why not make it compulsory for a student to eat salad at luchtime, or ban formula milk? It's because a majority of people don't have salad for lunch and alot of mothers us infant formula as an alternative. Whereas alot of children participate and play sports. It is not absurd to make sports compulsory for children when alot of children do sports already. However, forcing salads to be eaten or banning baby formula is extremely absurd. 2. I'm not saying it's immoral to not socilalise. People like hermits have lived their lives without contact, but by teenage years, 95%+ students want to socialise and do things with friends and so on, so this is only a huge benefit to kids. 3. Yes, parents have a pivotal role in a students test results, more so than sports in some cases. But, this depends heavily on economic background like my opponent mentioned. If they come from a low-income family, chances are the parents don't get involved as much. In a middle-class family, parents are probably most involved and get their kids the best result possible. In rich families students get tutors and are given professional help. Parents shoudn't be forced to join the PTA or forced to sit down with their kids. Parenting is up to parents, the government shoudn't have control their, but this is on a bigger scale. It concerns future health risks, the security and safety of a nation from disease. Sport has an effect, it increases concentration and can relaxe the mind from just 'school, school,school'. Check out this article for further proof: http://www.sports-media.org... My opponent claims that all children should be forced to join this website, and forced to read. But most students read books, or at least text books, throughout school. Debating is a skill learned over time. It can't be started from the age of 5. You start basic grammar and rules at the age of 5. Whereas a child of 5 is more than happy to pick up a ball and kick it around, with almost no effort or skills being show nto the child. To give the last part of my rebuttal, I see the implications of implementing this into society. Yes, some wil side with me and say it's for the greater good and has our childrens good at heart. Others will side with my opponent KRFournier and say it is a violation of one's freedom. The implications my opponent states is that the child will lose freedom, as well as the parent, over his/her life. But a child has little freedom in it's life when you think about it. They do about 6-7 hours of school a day, get 2 days off and have homework aswell. Some willl say that it's putting more stress on students by forcing them to in some cases lose a day to doing sport and losing other time to training for sports. but lets step outside the bubble for a minute and look at not facts done by some scientist up in a lab away from civilization, but from the best view you have, your eyes. Going through school, who usually were the most overweight? The children who didn't participate in sport, or neglected it. Those are the people who go on to have bi-pass surgery or a heart attack. Alot of times, it costs the state, which is the taxpayers, thousands of dollars. By making it compulsory for chidren to participate in sports, we are saving in cases huindreds of millions of dollars. It woudn't even take 100 million to upgrade the facilities which are already in place, and would be able to cater for more kids. Now, onto another point. I feel sports is essential in some ways to human development. It gives energy they need, and leaves them able to , as i mentioned earlier, to perform better in school. My opponent will argue that Music, art and debating may be just as essential as sport, and I'm not saying they aren't. But if a kid doesn't do sport, they can sometimes develop slower than someone doing sports, because theyre challenging theyre body and constantly making themselves better. I look forward to your next argument.	PRO	302
302	Sf7d2f477-A2c9155db	Sports should be compulsory for every child over 5.	I would like to thank whoever challenges me in this debate. Firstly, I will state my argument. It is that if every child aged 5 from here on in played a sport up until the age of 16, it would benefit society. My points are 1. It will tackle obesity levels, 2. It will help children socialise. & 3. It will benefit students in other ways, like academically. Firstly, obesity levels are on of societies challenges. Heart disease and other heart related problems kill thousand of people a year. This is preventable by making all children do a sport from a young age. It will make them fit & healthy from a young age, making them less likely to become obese. Secondly, It will help kids socialise. Kids who normally shack up days on end in their room on the computer or Xbox normally don't do sports. It's leaves their social options limited, and they turn to an online community for help with this. Infact it further distants them from real life friends in many ways, and thus if every child does sports, it will benefit them. Last but no least, the cildren will benefit in many other ways. For example, it's been proven scientifically that students that exercise regularly get an academic boost and helps concentration levels. Aswell, all children have different talents. Sports will bring this out of them. Whilse the con side may argue all kids aren't suited to sports, sports brings out talents that can be used in music and art. There's a plethora of sports to choose from. Baseball can be used to strenghten arm muscles and can enable children to run in short burts, whereas Basketball instigates throwing and jumping skills, aswell as the ability to quickly switch from defense to offense. Meanwhile, soccer improves stamina and kicking abilities. Also, American football, while it is for teenagers and onwards, encourages thinking tactically and determination , And I'm only talking about America! Mormally, a child that is good at one sport, usually excells at other sports and more than often, activites like Music and Art. I encourage anyone to challenge me, and look forward to a good debate.	PRO	303
303	Sf7d2f477-Ae0b5c9a	Sports should be compulsory for every child over 5.	"Once again, I thank I-am-a-panda for positing this interesting resolution and for responding so quickly and thoughtfully. I look forward to debating him again in the future. My opponent has been arguing that children 5 and older should be compelled to enter into sports. His argument is based on the presupposition that the government ought to legislate good health if doing so can possibly create a better society. I called this a messiah state, a government headship that takes on the responsibility of saving its citizens from themselves. In other words, my opponent wants government to take responsibility of our actions--the actions of our parents and our children. My argument has been that the benefits personal liberty outweighs the benefits of fewer obese children. Furthermore, my opponent fails to fully appreciate the doors his resolution opens. I've asked my opponent repeatedly to explain why sports should be mandated and not other self-improvement regiments. His answer to this is that most kids already engage in sports, so forcing the rest is not too much to ask. Who, other than I-am-a-panda, decides when it's too much to ask? Who decides what constitutes a proper ""sport?"" Who pays for it? What happens when the citizens resist such legislation? My opponent has not answered any of these questions satisfactorily. He wants us to simply accept, on good faith, that these answers are simply and easily handled. I think it's important to note that even my opponent cannot be consistent with his logic. My opponent starts his final round saying, ""So, if the government intervenes for the good of the child in seat belt safety to protect their lives, why don't they [sic] government intervene health wise to protect it's [sic] future voters and citizens?"" But he contradicts this very ideal later in the same round when he says, ""You can't regulate what a person eat [sic]."" My opponent's position is totally arbitrary. He wants the government to regulate one area of healthy living, but not another. He cannot have it both ways. My opponent's arguments also rely on the logic that since we take away one freedom, we should take another, so long as it improves the individual. We make people wear seatbelts, so why not make them play baseball? I pointed out the flaw in this thinking when he argued that kids already have to go to school, so let's force them to play sports. I asked my opponent to tell us where this line of thinking ends. After we mandate sports, what's next? This kind of ideology is dangerous and short sighted. People don't always make the right choices, but taking away those choices is the greatest crime of all. Read the Declaration of Independence for a reminder. Advocating that the government force children to participate in sports at any age takes away too many freedoms. It violates the child's freedom of self expression by forcing them to participate in activities they may not enjoy or excel within. It violates the parent's freedom to raise them as they see fit. It is certain that parents and children fail to create healthy habits, but the alternative is a society of healthy mindless drones, whose actions and responsibilities belong to the state. I contend that this is not all a ""better"" society."	CON	304
304	Se2bfa5e5-A6e72de04	Ping Pong is not the best of all sports	FINAL REBUTTALS 1. More calories: yes, I conceded this point. 2. However, it must be taken into notice that nobody does the 1500m, pole vaulting AND the 100m one after another. Thus, they are considered pretty much seperate sports with different types of skills. 3. The old man who can handle T & F: still, nothing suggests they won't get a heart attack as previously mentioned. Animal: Killing is full of gore and blood...which is not good. There is a reason Saw is rated R. :P Track lack of shoes? Your feet will get hurt without those sneakers. Just look at the video below. Running's joint pain: ping pong has many healthy effects similar to those of T & F, as all sports do. They both increase strength (even if only a bit), endurance, skill, speed, and mental moral. And while both sports may require practice, T & F gets really tiring and boring doing the same motion over and over again, while each ping pong game is different from the next, so you never get bored. Popualrity? Sigh... I suppose I can't counter this. Injuries: that ping pong video was dumb. Based on my opponent's logic, if in Track and Field one does not look carefully and practices in confined spaces running back and forth, they could have easily hit their head on a pole as well. Money: Eh. Oh well. Conclusion: congradulations, my opponent. It seems that you did manage to refute most of my points. However, it is up to the voters to decide the ultimate winner. I've had an interesting look-in to Track and Field. It is a bit unfair that Track and Field includes so god-darn many sub-sports within it, but I agreed to take upon the challenge. In addition, I missed my chance to post a funny ping pong match I found online (that could prove ping pong a better sport in casual play--more fun--and thus superior)-- () XD If I lose this debate, I won't stop proving ping pong better than all the sports in the world--I'll just have to limit it down to one particular event next time and research harder. Good debate. Vote me.	CON	305
305	Se2bfa5e5-A2d1a87e	Ping Pong is not the best of all sports	"Thanks goes to my opponent for his quick response. Unfortunately, he violated debate rules by posting rebuttals in round 2. Still, the debate must continue! So onto my rebuttals. 1. Ping Pong may burn 400-600 calories per hour. However, track burns more. Distance runner Matt Tegenkamp weighs 145 lbs and has a PR of 27:28.22 in the 10,000 meters race [1]. Entering that into a calorie calculator [2] (you'll most likely have to enter it yourself) you can see that in just under half the time it takes to burn, at most, 600 calories playing ping pong, Matt would burn 681 calories. If you divide ping pong's calorie burning in half to represent the time Matt took to burn those calories, 300 calories (max) would be burnt. Therefore he burns more than twice as many calories running than he would playing ping pong. Keep in mind that he is a thin distance runner, and the more weight one has, the more calories they will burn by running. Meanwhile, Ashton Eaton, decathlete, weighs 185 lbs [3]. If he were to practice hurdling for an hour of his training regimen, he would burn about 756 calories [4]. Thus, T&F is more physically vigorous. 2. Sprints in T&F are ALL about reaction time. Reaction time may be the difference between a World Record and a silver medal in the 100 m dash. In the 1991 World Championships, Leroy Burrell set a world record of 9.85 seconds in the 100m dash, defeating reigning world champ Carl Lewis. Burrell reacted to the gun in 117 milliseconds, while it took Lewis 166 mSec. Although Lewis ran the rest of the race at a faster pace (9.764 to Burrell's 9.784), Burrell still won the race and set a WR due to his reaction time [5]. There are also many different running styles [6]. It can take much skill and effort to adjust your individual running style to become fast [7]. There are also different ways to throw [8] and jump [9] that provide strategic advantages. Many distance races force runners to adapt to the pace and aggressiveness of their opponents, and many different race strategies can be employed in order to win [10]. Things like drafting off of your opponent also come into play. As you can see, track and field is more than just running in a circle. Both sports require mental strategizing, but, once again, T&F offers a plethora of skills to master and difficult races or events to strategize for. I stand by my assertion, T&F takes more net skill. 3. The Old People argument has already been rebutted, as track even has its own organization for older runners. Just like ping pong, they may not be as good, but can still participate. This point is therefore moot. Track remains more physically challenging, and therefore more adheres to the definition of a sport. The cats in the video above are not playing ping pong or even able to hold a paddle. Most just followed the ball, as they saw it as a possible predator. Meanwhile, animals attempt to see which is faster all the time, in a rudimentary version of T&F. Predators chase their prey, and the faster one, just like in track, wins. Many of the topics discussed about the cheetah in the video above (such as its fast twitch muscle fibers) are honed in their human versions in training for track and field. The cheetah won the race, and received its prize, as seen above. http://www.youtube.com... Furthermore, track actually is more available, as most public schools do not have table tennis teams, and table tennis equipment is rather expensive [11]. Table tennis is therefore limiting to underprivileged children. They could, however, join their school's track team, or run on the track of a public school. 4. As I said before, both are competitive.Track, however, requires harder work. Whether the athletes actually work harder is untestable. 5. T&F also has organizations all over the world. USA [12] Asia [13] Africa [14] Australia [15] Europe [16] REBUTTALS 1. My opponent claims that because ping pong is physically easier, it is a better sport. This, in essence, means he has conceded to my third point above. It is very possible to injure oneself playing ping pong [17], however I have proven his point about the elderly to be false, his only proposed benefit for table tennis being better because it is easier. However, i have proposed an unrefuted point that the difficulty of track making it more of a sport than ping pong. Therefore, this argument fails, while he has conceded a point. 2. Actually, False. While my opponent's estimate for the average professional track athlete is correct, this is almost the only non-skewed figure in this entire argument. The estimate for average ping pong player's salaries is actually listed in his source as ""average earnings for players of spectator sports"" and does not include only ping pong. Furthermore, my opponent states that ping pong's highest paid player gets $645,000. He fails to acknowledge that top track runner Usain Bolt makes a whopping $20 million a year [18]. In addition, the money paid to athletes is a rather weak argument for how good a sport is. Conclusion My opponent fails to refute my arguments (and in one case concedes), ignores a good chunk of them, and offers weak contentions of his own. T&F is obviously the superior sport, and my position is upheld. Vote pro. Thanks, and Good Luck. [1]""http://www.usatf.org... [2]http://www.runnersworld.com... [3]http://www.usatf.org... [4]http://calorielab.com... [5]http://condellpark.com... [6]http://www.humankinetics.com... [7]http://www.runnersworld.com... [8]http://digitaltrackandfield.com... [9]http://www.indiana.edu... [10]http://www.active.com... [11]http://www.walmart.com... [12]http://www.usatf.org... [13]http://athleticsasia.org... [14]http://www.africanathletics.org... [15]http://www.athletics.com.au... [16]http://www.european-athletics.org... [17]http://tabletennis.about.com... [18]http://www.forbes.com..."	PRO	306
306	Se2bfa5e5-Ac9bfbda5	Ping Pong is not the best of all sports	"I'm sorry for my rule violation. I'm used to rebutting and making points in the same round. I'll try not to rebut too much since I already got a head start in the beginning. 1. More calories: alright, you got me, Ping Pong isn't a very tough sport, nowhere near the toughest sport there is, but this argument only helps my heart-attack risk argument, as well as my availibility-argument. 2. Reaction Time: so what? It's just the beginning...in ping pong you have to react to every single push, pull, attack, etc, all in time! Many styles of stuff/difficulty to master: the tactics aren't really instantaneous. You have time to think. On the other hand ping pong is so darn-right unpredictable. Will you opponent lob the ball up high in the air? Will he chop the ball and put a heavy ghost spin on it? Will he attempt to smash the ball in your face? You have to adapt to every single shot, and thus ping pong is much harder than Track and Field. In fact, even the serves are hard to counter or predict...the video below appropiately puts serves into 10 categories. Not to mention that the video maker apparently forgot the serves without spins! 3. Old people: um, old people can easily get heart-attacks or be completely unable to do so much excersice. Is there a single old man who can handle those humongous 800-something calories?! The pets: oh, come on, those pets are cute and funny! As for the ""all the time"", it's a matter of life and death. It is immoral to kill another for your own benefit. Thus, animal ""track and field"" is immoral and cruel, while animal Ping Pong is funny and cute. Therefore, ping pong is superior. As for track being more availible, people have to get the appropraite good shoes. You can't wear sandals to track without burning or hurting your foot. Replacement of sneakers could get really expensive, especially with growing children. Although the cost is only around $20, the constant beat-up on the shoe and intense excercise can stack this up, and with merely around 6 replacements (seems logical), it matches up to the price of a ping pong table plus paddles. Also, running can bring some problems. Source [5] states ""[running]...can lead to joint problems, stress fractures, low-back pain and other maladies"", and that ""running more than about 30 miles a week may increase the buildup of plaque in the arteries of your heart."" This is quite dangerous, and considering that Track and Field runners run around a lot, they can get quite near that 30-mile limit if they push themselves too far. Not only that, running has mental drawbacks as well. If you are used to being isolated, running (alone) may worsen that problem especially if you need support. In addition, competition puts much stress and pressure on oneself. This does not necessarily apply to ping pong. Within running, it is at times a competition of endurance, thus, literal physical stress is put on you as well, worsening the mental stress, especially during very long runs when you are out of breath and your friends keep on cheering you on. Furthermore, you may be a sore loser. Although losing 10-11 in a ping pong match might be annoying, you know to improve and where your weaknesses are. On the other hand, in Track and Field, you know it just means more and more practice; there is no other way around it. In Ping Pong, however, you can practice deflecting different shots as well as creating your own different strategy to throw off the enemy. 4. Organizations around the world: okay, great to know. Now the popularities of both sports are equal....or are there? There is an organization [2] especially dedicated to competition, both for the elite and casual players. In addition, there is another Nation-wide organization for Ping Pong [3] and, as source [4] says, ""...there are now more than 50 full-time clubs in the U.S., as well as a collegiate league of 141 schools."" This just shows how popular Ping Pong is. And keep in mind that that particular article was written 2 years ago, so now there are much, much more clubs and collegiate leagues for Ping Pong. Ping pong's injuries: this ""ping pong elbow"" is nothing compared to the degrees of skin that could be achieved in some parts Track and field...[1] This can be really annoying for people. The money: dang...it seems you beat me to this argument. But as you said, this is weak, so it does not really contribute to how good a sport Track & Field is compared to Ping Pong. Remember: my opponent must conclude in the final round, as will I."	CON	307
307	Se2bfa5e5-Ac8c0b66c	Ping Pong is not the best of all sports	"It's all good, man. I hope the voters don't take the rule violation too much into consideration, as you've put up a decent fight for a sport as weak as ping pong =). Let's get into the final rebuttals and conclusion, and as my opponent said, no new arguments. 1. This first part is basically just a concession. One point for sure goes to T&F. 2. As I stated before, ESPN ranked sports on their difficulty. This difficulty is broken down into several categories: endurance, speed, power, strength, flexibility, nerve grid, durability, hand-eye coordination, and analytic aptitude [1]. Table Tennis outscores most individual track events in only two of these: hand-eye coordination and analytic aptitude (track far outscores ping pong in all 7 other categories) . Based on my opponent's arguments, this would seem to be the case. My opponent bases his argument for skill solely on two of the nine major skills of sports. Therefore, track outweighs table tennis from a skills standpoint based on the vast amount of other skills a track athlete needs. This is especially difficult for a decathlete like Ashton Eaton, who participates in a large amount of events, it is very difficult to combine the durability and endurance of the 1500m with the flexibility, power, and hand-eye coordination of pole vaulting and the speed and strength of the 100m dash. T&F therefore takes more skill as a whole than table tennis, regardless of if table tennis takes slightly more hand-eye coordination or in-game analytic ability (as I demonstrated before, much planning goes into track races). 3. Why yes, there is an old man who can handle it. This man is 100 years old and participates in masters T&F, doing the high jump, shot put, and weight throw [2]. There is also a 91 year old woman who competes in sprints, middle distance, throwing, and jumping [3], as well as many other old folks (about 900 over the age of 40 entered the Masters Indoor T&F championships this year [2]). Track not only is available to the elderly, it can help them lead healthier lives. Therefore this argument fails to affirm that ping pong is at all better than T&F. Animals: My opponent is verging into the subjective here. I personally don't think cats are that cute, nor were these cats actually playing ping pong. Most didn't even touch the ball. The cuteness of the animals does not have any relation to the sport. In addition, animals surviving is not immoral. Cheetahs eat only meat, and would die without killing and eating their prey. Actually, one doesn't need shoes to train in track, or even need to run on a track. David Rudisha, world record holder in the 800m, actually trained on a dirt track, barefoot, for most of his childhood and adolescence [4]. Really, all you need is a pair of track spikes for racing (mine cost around $40). Therefore, track is cheaper and more available than ping pong. Running actually doesn't normally cause joint pain, and actually can help alleviate it, especially in the knees [5]. It can also help reduce risk of cancer, as well as having many other positive effects [5]. The study on plaque in the arteries wasn't well explained in my opponent's article, so I looked it up. The study found that while 60% of runners tested had plaque buildup, so did 52% of the control group (the runners were also, on average, 5 years older than the control subjects) [6]. My source concludes that this study was a ""negative study"", one without significant statistical evidence to support its results [6,7]. It sates: ""Obviously the ""cause"" of plaque build-up in the coronary arteries is multifactorial. ""The authors can""t have it both ways: ""running cannot be responsible in the runners yet not responsible in the controls"" [6]. Thus, the study does not demonstrate a correlation between running and plaque buildup. The rest of this article refers to people who run alone through a park or the like to get in shape independent of a sport. It applies to running, but not Track and Field as a sport. Almost all T&F runners are on a T&F team or have a training partner or pacesetter. In addition, many T&F participants do not run, but do pole vault, jumps, or throws. My opponent essentially counters his own point when talking about a ping pong player being a sore loser as well. There is no statistical evidence to prove track athletes are sorer losers than ping pong athletes. My opponent also counters his own point about practice: ""in Track and Field, you know it just means more and more PRACTICE"" ""In Ping Pong, however, you can PRACTICE deflecting different shots as well as creating your own different strategy to throw off the enemy."" Both sports require practice to get better, hence the phrase ""practice makes perfect."" (Track, especially distance, requires you to think of strategies as well, as I proved earlier). 4. They aren't equal. I have demonstrated that track is more globally popular and more popular due to social media during the Olympic Games. There also are over 2,000 track clubs in the nation [8], 278 collegiate T&F programs in D1 alone [9], and over 1,000 collegiate track programs nationwide [10]. Track is therefore more popular. Injuries: The only thing my opponent's source talks about is a pole vaulter who had ankle problems. There is really only one problem, not varying problems, discussed here. Ping pong can cause other injuries than ""table tennis elbow"", such as head injuries (see video above....I love that video). http://www.youtube.com... Money: Once again, a concession. Another point for T&F. Conclusion: My opponent fails to provide any strong arguments for ping pong, and all arguments have been successfully rebutted. T&F better fits the definition of a sport (by taking more skill and physical ability and being more athletic in nature), is less costly, more popular, better for the economy, offers similar benefits to the elderly to ping pong, and even occurs in a rudimentary form in nature with animals. Track is obviously the superior sport. Thanks to my opponent, 9spaceking, for the debate. [1]http://sports.espn.go.com... [2]http://olympictalk.nbcsports.com... [3]http://www.nytimes.com...; [4]http://www.dailymail.co.uk... [5]http://www.runnersworld.com... [6]http://www.athletesheart.org... [7]http://htaglossary.net... [8]http://www.usatf.org... [9]http://www.thebestschools.org... [10]http://www.athleticscholarships.net..."	PRO	308
308	Se2bfa5e5-Ad05a429e	Ping Pong is not the best of all sports	"Thanks for accepting this debate. I'm going to go with my favorite sport, track and field. This includes all track events as well as discus, javelin, shot put, pole vault, high jump, long jump, triple jump, the decathlon, and the heptathlon. The resolution of this debate is going to change a bit, per my opponent's request. It will be ping pong is not as good a sport as track and field. BoP is shared. Track is better than ping pong in many ways. Since much of the debate between which sport is ""better"" often revolves are subjectivity, a fairly objective way to go about figuring out which sport is ""better"" is to assess which fits the definition of ""sport"" better. My opponent has provided the definition:""an athletic activity requiring skill or physical prowess and often of a competitive nature"" So let's break that down: 1.""An athletic activity"" Although ping-pong IS an athletic activity, meaning it so far fits the definition of sport, track and field is often referred to as Athletics [1]. Why is this? Track is the original athletic activity. Its origins can be traced back to 776 B.C [2]. It is the sport with the longest standing athletic tradition still upheld, and demonstrates the basic functions needed to be an athlete (along with some more complex ones). Ping Pong, however, started as a parlor game in the 19th century, evolving from lawn tennis which came from real tennis[3]. Ping pong athletes also perform less vigorous athletic activity. Therefore T&F is more of an athletic activity. 2. ""requiring skill"" Although ping pong requires skill in one discipline, finding ways to make an opponent unable to hit the ball back, T&F requires skill in many disciplines. Decathletes must master the 100m dash (reaction time and speed), 400m dash (reaction time, speed, and endurance), 1500 meter run (endurance and speed), 110 meter hurdles (reaction time, speed, coordination, flexibility), high jump (power, flexibility, form), long jump and triple jump (speed and power), javelin (power, technique, speed), and shot put and discus (power, throwing technique). This requires prodigious skill and training [4]. Therefore, although""ping pong requires skill, T&F requires large amounts of skill in many more areas, and therefore more net skill. 3. ""physical prowess"" This one is rather obvious. Track takes vastly more physical prowess than ping pong. Anyone can play either one, (as I expect my opponent to bring up ""old people can play ping pong"") track even has its own ""masters"" division for older athletes [5], but track requires more physical ability to WIN. If this is doubted by my opponent, ESPN scientifically ranked sports on difficulty. Pole Vault ranks 16, high jump 33, long and triple jump 34, sprints 38, distance 40, and middle distance 43 [6]. Ping Pong is ranked 47. Ashton Eaton, a decathlete, has the title of ""Greatest Athlete in the World"" [7].""Therefore T&F takes more physical ability and skill than ping pong. 4. ""a competitive nature"" This one is unfortunately immeasurable. You cannot measure which athletes are trying harder, though track is more difficult, as demonstrated above, so it can be inferred that track athletes SHOULD be working harder. Other objective arguments: A) Track has a much greater positive economic impact than ping pong [8]. This is due to its popularity and scale, track being more globally popular and track venues able to host more spectators. B) Track is more popular, both globally during the year [9] and especially during the Olympics, when both sports are available side by side [10]. Conclusion Although ping pong is a sport, it is vastly more popular in its ""parlor game"" form than any actual table tennis competition. The sport of ping pong pales in comparison in virtually every way to track and field. T&F better fits the definition of sport, and therefore is a better sport, objectively. Thanks for the debate. Good Luck! Up top is some Usain Bolt footage to entertain you: http://www.youtube.com... Sources [1]http://en.m.wikipedia.org... [2]http://www.olympic.org... [3]http://www.ittf.com... [4]http://www.brianmac.co.uk... [5]http://masterstrack.com... [6]http://sports.espn.go.com... [7]http://espn.go.com... [8]http://www.mondotrackusa.com...(R060613)_en.pdf [9] http://www.post-gazette.com... [10] http://www.topendsports.com..."	PRO	309
309	S9c3af387-A115a73ed	American football is the most complex and strategic of all popular sports.	I would first like to thank Con for taking this debate. My first argument will attempt to portray the complexity of American Football. Complexity is generally used to characterize something with many parts where those parts interact with each other in multiple ways (Wikipedia). In other words, complex means many interacting variables. I'd like to focus on four categories that can be used in any sport as an indication of complexity: variety of roles, variety of plays, variety of rules, and variety of ways to score. American Football dominates everyone of these categories. Roles In no other sport do we see the amount of roles, and especially the difference between those roles than we do in American Football. It is the only sport I can think of in which the offensive players don't transition to defensive players. There are 6 unique defensive roles, and 8 unique offensive roles. There are an additional 22 roles for special teams, for a total of about 36 totally different roles played by different players. These roles require completely different skill sets, play memorization, and physical ability. An offensive lineman has a completely different experience than a wide receiver, and a quarterback in no way mirrors a running back's role. It's almost as if they are all playing entirely different games simultaneously. This is not true for other sports. In soccer, or hockey, or basketball, you could swap two players roles and although the team would struggle, the game would still go on and remain somewhat competitive. A defensive soccer player could play as a forward if they had to. A first baseman in baseball could play as outfielder. But a wide receiver could never be an offensive lineman, nor could a quarterback ever be a running back. The team would be massacred. These roles don't just require completely different knowledge and skill sets, they require completely different body types. For these reasons, there is no sport on the planet that has as much diversity in roles than what we see in football. Plays This is simple. No other sport has as many play varieties as football. There are anywhere from 500-800 plays in an NFL offensive playbook. Not only is each play different from the other, but they fall into categories that are very different as well. You have passes (slant, deep, screen, fade, swing, flare), you have runs (power, dive, sweep, counter), you have fake run passes (play action), you have fake pass runs (draw), and a variety of trick plays. There are also hundreds of formations proceeding the play including special teams plays. I don't really see how this point is debatable. No other sport even compares to the variety of plays we see in football. The more plays the more complex the play calling and execution. Rules I'm not 100% on this one, but I think football has more rules than any other sport. If not, it is certainly amongst the top. A large rule book obviously adds to the complexity of a game, making it more difficult to understand, navigate and execute. Scoring You can score 4 different amounts of points in football in 3 different ways. You can score 1, 2, 3, or 6 points. You can score by kicking the ball between two posts (field goal or extra point). You can score by tackling the opposing player in their own end zone (safety). And you can score by bringing the ball into the end zone (touchdown). A touchdown can be scored in two ways, running the ball into the end zone, or catching the ball in the end zone. I can't think of any other sport that has as many different scoring options as football. These variations in scoring add to the complexity of play calling and decision making in a game. I believe I have clearly and objectively shown that American football is the most complex and layered of all sports. No other sport has more variety in roles, plays, rules, or scoring. In some of these categories, no other sport is even close. I now turn it over to Con. http://en.wikipedia.org...	PRO	310
310	S9c3af387-Ab63a7313	American football is the most complex and strategic of all popular sports.	You make some very good arguments with many valid points. Yes football is a very complicated sport but I do not think it is the most complicated. I will make an attempt to rebut your statements and use examples of other sports to show that they have more complexity. First off as no clear definition was first described I am assuming that the complexity in the sport, for which we are arguing, can come from many different angles and variables. Those variables include individual player, team work, coaching, and even scouting. As you stated the definition of complexity can include, but is not limited to, a variety of factors. I will explain how just because something has a variety of factors does not make it complex. Although football does have a lot of positions and roles that need to be filled in order for the team to function this does not mean it is complex. I think I can even use your own argument against you in that there many roles. The players each have there own role and they don't even have to switch on defense. A lot of the roles are based on repetition. (wide receiver running a route they have ran hundreds of times or a running back running through a hole.) This makes it easier to play the game in that your role is a lot more simple when all you have to know are a few things and the others are irrelevant. This makes the game easier to play, coach, and manage. Drafting players is not as complicated when there are not as many factors that need to be decided on. Coaching players is also not as difficult as you don't need to teach one person too many things. In rugby most players need to be able to fill certain roles when necessary and make the proper reaction. Every single player in rugby needs to play offense and can immediately need to react to the situation to play defense without stopping to take a drink break. Not only do they need to make a swift reaction but they need to know how to work together as a team on both sides without stopping or slowing down to draw up a play. In soccer, hockey, and basketball the players all need to be able to play both offense and defense while continually playing and working as a team with limited communication. The point guard in basketball must be able to play both defense and run an offense calling plays when needed and reacting quickly to situations. The point guard can't just throw the ball away and try again in another 40 seconds. I would like to use a metaphor that might come across as absurd but I am just trying to get my point across. Now lets say you take 2 average not extremely educated high school kids and give them a team of average people. (Quantity not important) You give student A 20 tasks to complete but they are all things like cleaning, yard work, painting, etc... You give Student B 1 task. His only task that he can use his team in what ever way he wants is to solve a large Rubik's cube. All I intended to do with this example is show you that just because there are more roles and factors involved does not prove that something is more complicated. I'm sure most people would agree that the 1 task of solving a Rubik's cube is more complicated than the 20 tasks for student A. While I can't argue that there is another sport with more plays or rules I can point out the a player only has to remember their job in that specific play and often that job can be repeatable. Very good argument using scoring. I don't think I can name another sport that has as many scoring options as football does and you are right it does add to the complexity of the game but I do not think it is an important deciding factor.	CON	311
311	S9c3af387-A6d23f10a	American football is the most complex and strategic of all popular sports.	Con made strong points regarding the complexity of roles in sports. Essentially, Con is stating that other sports are more complex because regardless of the number of roles, every player is required to be more dynamic. I am stating that football is more complex because the roles themselves are more dynamic. Truthfully, this could go either way depending on whether you feel more complexity lies within the variety of roles, or the variety of responsibilities within a role. I suppose both could be used as examples of complexity. The key difference I would point out, regarding this debate, is that I was claiming the sport was the most complex, not the individual player. If you are looking at the entire sport, I would think that the variety in roles takes precedence, as opposed to looking at an athlete where the complexity of their specific role would take precedence. A rugby player could have a more complex role without belonging to the more complex sport. Here an analogy: A microwave is more complex than a spark plug, but a jet engine (which could not function without the spark plug) is more complex than a microwave. You could also say that playing bag pipes is more complex than playing a trumpet. But that conducting an orchestra is more complex than playing bag pipes. In other words, the parts don't have to be complex in order to construct a complex mechanism. That being said, even if voters agree that Con is correct regarding complexity and roles; that's only 1 in 4 categories. I don't think there is any comparing the complexity of football regarding plays, rules, and scoring. Another thing I wanted to address is Con's notion that a football player only has to memorize their job in a specific play and that it's repeatable, and basically easy. What Con didn't mention is that over 400 unique plays have to be memorized and executed perfectly by every player in order for that play to have chance. It's very different from the fluidity we see in other sports where there is much heavier emphasis on improvisation. In soccer or hockey things can fall apart and breakdown, but still be corrected on the fly successfully. There is far less emphasis on memorization. It's more of a go with the flow atmosphere in which everyone is trying to do the same thing on offense or defence. An example of the difference in difficulty level would be if I were called to go play an MLS game today, as opposed to being called up to play an NFL game. In the soccer match, I would basically know what to do, I just wouldn't do it well. In the football game, I wouldn't have clue. I wouldn't know where to line up, or any idea how to proceed once the ball was snapped. The average Joe playing football would look far more lost than the person playing soccer (although they would both look pretty foolish). Another similar example are the sports we play at my job. We play softball, soccer, and flag football year round. The softball and soccer games require no preparation. None whatsoever. We don't practice, we don't meet up before the games to refresh our game plan. Everyone just knows what to do, and the team with the most athletic players, or hardest hitting batter win the game. Football on the other hand does require preparation. We have to meet before the season to make a playbook. We have to practice once a week and before the game so that everyone is comfortable with the various plays and their roles. As opposed to the other sports, the best teams in the football league are the most organized teams. Simply put, when we start the football season it is much more involved. There are just more things that you have to know in order to move the ball one foot. Without even analyzing it, the football games just seem more complex. It's one of the reasons football is one of the only sports where you don't see pick-up games at parks. How would anybody know what to do without organizing and memorizing plays? I'll save the strategic aspect of the game for later rounds.	PRO	312
312	S9c3af387-Af33e550	American football is the most complex and strategic of all popular sports.	"""I am stating that football is more complex because the roles themselves are more dynamic"" I have already explained that the roles in football are not dynamic at all. They are in fact simplistic. ""I was claiming the sport was the most complex, not the individual player"" I am not psychoanalyzing the player. I am analyzing their role, duty, and goal while calculating the complexity. ""the variety in roles takes precedence"" This is like saying that quantity is always better than quality. A micro wave and jet engine can not be compared to sports. Conducting an orchestra of 11 people playing hot cross buns is easier than 5 people playing Beethoven. Your analogy's can be used against you if you aren't specific. ""A rugby player could have a more complex role without belonging to the more complex sport"" You can't have a complex sport without complex roles. I'm not saying football isn't complex but just that it isn't as complex as other sports. ""parts don't have to be complex in order to construct a complex mechanism"" It is not about the parts but the role the parts play. 1 basketball player=1 part. He has many different roles through the game he has to perform. A running back only has two possible roles. He can either block or run. ""over 400 unique plays have to be memorized"" I also argued that individually these plays are not that unique and not very difficult to execute. ""other sports where there is much heavier emphasis on improvisation"" This in no way makes the sport less complex. ""There is far less emphasis on memorization"" How many coaches in basketball do you think just tell their players to ""go with the flow""? There are so many possible outcomes on a micro and macro level in sports that it is impossible for me to count them. The outcomes are calculated by the coaches and reactions must be memorized and executed instantly when said outcome occurs. This level of memorization happens at more of a micro level than football and is less understood which make it more complex. Also because of the lack of stoppage in play more information must be memorized than in football. About your argument of being placed into the NFL or MLS I completely disagree. You would be equally useless in both sports. For example on defense you might be a gap on both teams almost like a missing player but that gap could be filled even though there would be a small consequence on both teams. But unfortunately for both of us this argument is unverifiable and should be disregarded. About your example using pick up games, I find it difficult to really use pick up games in an argument because there are no refs and less rules no matter what sport you are playing. But as for the argument itself, since you used a personal example as an argument I will use a personal example as a counter argument. I have played a lot of pick up games of football and there have been times where people who don't really know how to play join in and it only really takes 60 seconds to explain what they need to do for a specific role. In fact when playing with inexperienced people I notice people make a lot more mistakes in basketball then they do in football. In a football game if someone is over 6 feet tall, fast, can jump high, and knows how to catch a ball they are immediately great wide receivers. In basketball after a quick explanation the person tends to foul a lot on defense and commit a lot of violations on offense. They also fail to have the ability to understand and execute seemingly simple concepts such as boxing out or switching on picks. This is not considering lack of ability like handling the ball but lack of understanding. http://sports.espn.go.com... If you look at ANA, (analytic aptitude) Football is ranked 5th. While this does not prove anything it shows that the ability to think and use strategy is more important in other sports than football."	CON	313
313	S39b05927-A8b8139ee	Favoritism to sports teams rather than academics	"The reason why debate teams need so much money is because they have to pay for tournaments. Each event you do costs money. Here is a great idea stop letting the slacker debaters debate and go to tournaments. Do what schools in my district do and tell them ""if you don't have your Oratory memorized your duet acting down and your debate case written then your not going to compete"". Its not hard to do as a matter of fact it saves money. Also in my district speech teachers are debate coaches which means that the school pays them a little extra money to coach the team its included in their pay check the one they get for teaching. What supplies do people need for debate teams? Extemp boxes and a dolly? And for other academic programs what a stop watch and a calculator which the school supplies. Sports on the other hand need money to keep their equipment updated. Faulty equipment leads to injuries which lead to law suits. You really want to see funding cuts from academic programs let football players play with broken helmets. To take away funding from sports teams so that academic teams can go out of town for one more tournament is ridiculous. Sports teams deserve money regardless if they are good or bad. Sports teams bring in money unlike academic teams. Not only that but sports teams need the money to provide safety. The only reason academic teams need money is so they can buy hefty duty boxes rather than the 5 dollar boxes at the dollar store. Their is not favoritism with sports teams rather than academic teams. The school and district have how much they can spend on programs and they have divide it amongst many organizations and teams. If you have a problem with how much your teams are getting ask your state what they are doing with the money for schools cause my state is obliviously not investing into my education."	CON	314
314	S39b05927-A99fdeec4	Favoritism to sports teams rather than academics	You make a good point. However, for some schools such as as mine, we have not so good a football team, and a national known speech and debate team. We do loads of fundraisers and such, why? Because we as a program do fantastic. However, many other programs, such as you said Academic Decathalon, or even Science Olympiad, while they do fantastic, don't get nearly as much funding. Yes, I agree that sports generate revenue, but the number of people who can actually play in the team plays a factor, and the entire school can't just join football, or soccer. People who want to do the academic side of the school activities. Those people should be allowed to do so, and not be limited by funding cuts.	PRO	315
315	S39b05927-Af0847d11	Favoritism to sports teams rather than academics	I understand that not everyone can join a sports team. I also understand that some people want to be on academic teams. But sports need the money. I do understand if the team is not good and the academic teams are great or what not. But what do academic teams need to buy? They only pay for their tournaments that is all. What do athletic teams need to buy? Equipment uniforms football, baseball, softball, soccer teams all pay for the lights when they practice and or play at night. Cheerleaders need to pay for trips and uniforms. They also have fundraisers. Swimming teams pay for the practice place (if your at my school we don't have a pool we go to a park). Academic teams don't pay for a lot of things. Because of that they don't need a lot of money. Sports on the other hand pays for so many things. They also have fundraisers and charging admissions is one of their fundraisers. We cant take away money from a sports team because their not good. We need to invest a little more money and maybe they will get better. Also if schools were to take away money from lets say football their would be a lot of risks for the reason that their equipment is what protects them.	CON	316
316	S39b05927-Aaaf5ad73	Favoritism to sports teams rather than academics	You say that sports teams need more money because of equipment and that academic teams need less. However, that's simply not true. Take for example, my speech and debate team. We needed 16,000 dollars to fund our entire season. We didn't get anywhere near that. I think we got 12,000 dollars. One of our fundraisers was selling adds to local businesses and putting them all in the different programs of our school plays and musicals. Granted, the school helps by providing the buses and stuff, but we still had to change a lot of things. Also, many other academic programs need to pay for supplies, books, hire coaches, and other huge things. Allowing sports teams to have their full needs, while not covering the needs of other programs is just not justified. Our speech and debate team does extremely well in the state, as well as the country, but without adaquate funding we don't bring that glory to our school, compared to our football team which stays in the state and doesn't have nearly as much success.	PRO	317
317	S39b05927-A2c06119c	Favoritism to sports teams rather than academics	You said you wanted to debate it, now here's your chance! I have to go to sleep, but here was my post from the earlier one. In the event that you want to debate the pro side, we could have another debate if you want. XD Anyway, to the argument. The fact is, I've been noticing trends throughout areas, especially in my school district, where people and the school administration tend to give more funds for the athletic department, rather then all the academic programs that exist in the school. While some programs are well funded, it seems that comparing say a football team to a debate team, the football team will always come out ahead, regardless on how well they do. In my school for example, the football team doesn't do so well. However, our speech and debate team does well at nationals, and doesn't seem to get as much obvious support as say the football team does. Is this fair? I don't think so. All programs are programs, and to give to one that's doing worse off more funds then one that's doing better, doesn't make any sense. It just shows that many people decide that sports are more important, which I believe is not true.	PRO	318
318	Sf888e5a8-A94631007	Video Games are Sports	Thank you for extending my knowledge on this topic.	CON	319
319	Sf888e5a8-A75f59be8	Video Games are Sports	Perhaps we will go against each other again over a different topic in the future!	PRO	320
320	S2ac397ba-A328e2712	eSports should be recognized and respected as official sports	R1- Accept R2- Arguments R3- Rebuttal R4- Summary (No new points) I will be arguing for eSports to be recognized as a sport to avoid any confusion. Good Luck!	PRO	321
321	S2ac397ba-Aa011e2ee	eSports should be recognized and respected as official sports	Sounds like a beastly idea. I am interested on why you think this. I am prepared to combat your arguments Therefore I accept.	CON	322
322	Sb2bc49bb-Ab03140eb	CMV: Transgender women should not be allowed to compete in cisgender women?s sports due to unfair biological advantage	"I want to start by saying I do not intend to be transphobic. I think it?s wonderful laws are finally acknowledging transgender persons as a protected class. Sports seems to be the exception?partially because it brings up issues of sex rather than gender.

My granddaughter is a swimmer and was 14th in the state at the last high school championship. There is a transgender girl (born a boy and transitioned to become a girl) on the team who was ranked 5th among the girls at the same meet. 

When this transgender girl competed with the men the previous year in a near identical time (actually a couple seconds slower than the time she swam with the girls) she was not even ranked because the men were so much faster on average due to biological advantages of muscle mass, height, and whatever else. 

This person had been undergoing transitional pharmaceutical therapies for a few years now and had made the decision to switch from competing with the boys to the girls after some physical augmentations to her appearance she felt would make her differences less overt. 

Like most competitive high school athletes this girl plans to go to college for her sport, but is using what seems to me to be an unfair biological advantage to go from being a middle of the pack athlete to being one of the best in the state. 

I?m quite torn here because of course I think this girl should have every opportunity to play sports with the group she feels most comfortable and shouldn?t miss out on athletics just because she was born transgender, but I don?t feel it should be at the expense of all the girls who were born girls and do not have the physical advantages of the male biology. 

This takes things a step further than ?some girls are born taller than others or with quicker reflexes than others,? because it?s a matter of different hormonal compositions that, even after suppression therapies, no biological female could ever hope to compete with. 

With it just having been signed into law that transgender women competing against biological women is standard now, I?m especially frustrated because no matter how hard a biological girl works or trains, they would never be able to compete and even one trans person switching to a girl?s team would remove a spot from a biological girl who simply cannot keep up with a biological male. 

What bathrooms people use or what clothes they wear are gender issues that are no one?s business and it?s great those barriers are broken down. This is a scientific discrepancy of the sexes, so seems to me it should be considered separately.

I want to usher in this new era of inclusivity and think all kids should be able to enjoy athletics, though, so hoping someone can change my view and help my reconcile these two issues."	PRO	323
323	Se2bfa5e5-A389ec68b	Ping Pong is not the best of all sports	"REBUTTALS ""An athletic activity"": Nothing you has said proves that ping pong is less vigorous than T and F. Ping Pong burns many calories. Source [1] tells us that ""[ping pong]...anywhere from 400-600 calories per hour. At beginning level it's probably more like a easy walk - say 200-250 calories an hour."" Still, combined together that's 200-600 calories, which is a lot. 2. Skill: although track and skill requires lots of skill, Ping Pong requires massive reaction time and speed as well, as presented within the fast game below. Furthermore, even in not-so-fast games, different kinds of skills can be presented, as featured in the video below. In addition, Ping Pong is more complex. To start out with, there are two grip holds that each have their own advantages and disadvantages. The penhold allows more ""over the table play"", while the handhold is easier to learn and allows a wider range of playing styles. [2]Many different strokes, both offensive and defensive, which apply to different kinds of situations within a game of Ping Pong and complicate the game, making it more unpredictable. These ""strokes"" makes it hard for the opponent, especially when trying to spot spins and attempting to counter them. [3] When combining these strokes and toughness within reaction time, top-level play is much harder to master than T and F. 3. Physical Prowess: More physical ability does not neccesarily make T and F a better sport. If anything, this means more availibility, since the harder a sport is, the younger you have to be to play it. While ping pong can be tough at top level, old people can still play it at a lower-notch while still having fun, as presented in the video below. In addition, no animal can play in ""Track and Field"". Nope. On the other hand pets can play in Ping Pong. (see video below). Since ping pong is availible to more people (and animals!) it is superior to T and F. 4. Competitive nature: ping pong requires loads of skill and reaction time, as said above. People need to practice putting spins on the balls as well as attacking hard and fast. 5. Track is more popular? Table Tennis is availible globally as well....it even has its own national group. [4] Your argument is doubtable. Ping pong is world-wide famous with loads of tournaments in pretty much every country in the world. USA: [5] China: [6] (yes, I know you can't read it, the picture in the left corner should be quite clear what the rest of the page concerns) Africa: [7] Europe: [8] (just to show ping pong has more than one national group) [9] Australia: [10] I could name a bunch of more countries but I think I'd made my point. MY ARGUMENT 1. Track and Field is perhaps too tough. In fact, one Olympist even collapsed from too much! [11] Why, this shows that the competitors have to spend some money in the hospital and play it safe, retiring early on in their 50-s so as to be careful! Thus, my old-age argument is even extended fowards more, and ping pong is availible to more people, leading to my conclusion that Table Tennis is the superior sport. In addition, some people think it so tough that they used steroids! [12] In contrast Table Tennis could not possibly encourage anyone to gain steroids, those drugs simply don't help in such a skill-required sport like this one! 2. Table Tennis pros earn more money Yes. Table Tennis players earn an average of $104,470. Top players can earn far more. ""Chinese player Ma Lin, ranked fourth in the world as of June 2011, earned a record 5 million yuan salary for the Shaanxi Yinhe team ($645,000 in U.S. dollars) in 2006 in the Chinese Table Tennis Super League."" As stated by source [13]. In contrast, Track and Field professionals can only earn $79,460 per year, and even top players can't earn that much, as stated by source [14], ""The website Inside Higher Ed reported that one female track runner ...was only able to secure $10,000 in sponsorship compared to top female runners ...$150,000 to $200,000."" Which in no way matches up to the massive $645,000 earned by the Shaanxi Yinhe team! In conclusion I have upheld my argument and shown Ping Pong a superior sport to Track and Field. Onto you, pro. [1] http://tabletennis.about.com... [2] Hodges, Larry (1993). Table Tennis: Steps to Success. Human Kinetics. [3] http://en.wikipedia.org... [4] ittf.com [5[ http://www.teamusa.org... [6] http://sports.sina.com.cn... [7] http://allafrica.com... [8] http://www.ettu.org... [9] http://www.ettu.org... [10] http://tabletennis.org.au... [11] http://www.sportsjournalists.co.uk... [12] http://www.washingtonpost.com... [13] http://www.ehow.com... [14]http://www.ehow.com..."	CON	324
324	Se2bfa5e5-Ab5fb6b1e	Ping Pong is not the best of all sports	You have been chosen. Let's go. Structure (no matter what the topic): 1. Acceptance/Statement of Topic and Any Required Definitions 2. Presentation of Arguments 3. Rebuttals 4. Conclusion Thank you all.	PRO	325
325	S9c3af387-Ac7c904b5	American football is the most complex and strategic of all popular sports.	"""That's like saying you can't have a complex watch without complex gears"" A watch is not a sport. Your example below does not prove anything and only expresses a possibility of something being true which has already been done. ""The plays are incredibly unique"" ... ""they don't even start incorporating passing plays into football games until high school."" You have claimed simply that they are unique without explaining how or why they are unique. This statement is false while as when I started playing when I was 5 we were running pass plays (even if they were rare). This is not due to complexity but simply arm strength. The same argument can be incorporated into baseball in that 5 year olds only play tea ball instead of pitching. Meaning that your argument shows baseball is more complex. ""In no other sport are the coaches more involved with every play than in football"" Baseball coaches are more involved in every play than in football. They have a decision on what pitch must be thrown and how fast and in what direction. The have a decision on where the players in the field must stand. They coach and advise the batters on where they should look for pitches, where they should swing, where they should aim the ball, and if he should do certain things like hit and run or bunt. They advise the base runners on how far away from the base they should stand, if they should steal or hit and run, and they also make in game decisions on whether the base runner should continue to run home or stop at third. A football coach simply has a pre set play to tell the players what they should do while the complexity of baseball would make it too hard if there were pre set plays. To conclude I would like to mention that I have argued that basketball, baseball, ice hockey, and soccer are all more complicated than football. If I have done a better job at explaining any one of these is more complicated than football I win this debate. I would like to point out that when rebutting my arguments pro failed to explain why he was right properly instead only stating that he was. He also failed to rebut many of my arguments including an important piece of information that I have provided, http://sports.espn.go.com.... I would also like to point out that Pro accepted BOP in the beginning of the debate and while this is more of an opinion debate it is up to the voters to decide whether Pro was able to show that his sport was more complex beyond a reasonable doubt."	CON	326
326	S9c3af387-A6a62db5e	American football is the most complex and strategic of all popular sports.	I accept and look forward to the debate. Pro has set no rules and no specific definitions but they are fairly easily understood words that are open to interpretation but I assume that will be part of the debate. Since it is really a matter of opinion the win goes to the one who gives the most convincing argument in favor of their side and adheres to the other voting criteria. I will try to convince the voters that football is not the most complex and strategic sport and or that there is another 'popular' sport that is more complex and strategic than football. I look forward to a good fair debate. I will let you begin with your opening arguments. Good luck.	CON	327
327	Sce17d06f-Ae2db0481	It gives negative reputation to students/sports teams	The exessive drinking involved in these activities shows the teams in a bad light and may lead to the positive aspects of the team being forgotten. The poor reputation gained from these occasions may also lead to that team or others finding it difficult to find places to have socials in the future. The reputation of the initiations may also lead to all students gaining a poor reputation which may well not be deserved.	PRO	328
328	Sce17d06f-A2111d02e	It gives negative reputation to students/sports teams	Alternatively the freshers in particular and other students find themselves attracted to the teams for what they offer- for example, if you love hockey and there is a hockey team on offer to join, you will join it. A lot of people find the initiations beneficial to get to socialise with other members of the team and really good fun. Some students may care about the reputations of the teams, but a lot of students who get into the drinking too much mentality and suffer through these initiations are not likely to.	CON	329
329	Sb2bc49bb-A79898cdb	CMV: Transgender women should not be allowed to compete in cisgender women?s sports due to unfair biological advantage	"okay so we dont know the upper limits or even the average of hyperandrogenism in untreated women

do you have some answer to this question because it determines the difference between separtaing based on biology or making an unfair ban on transgender women

whatever criteria you set - heart size, tesoterone, skeletal density, etc - why wouldn't we let transgender women compete with cisgender women as long as they both meet the same critieria?"	CON	330
