	id	conclusion	premises	stance	rank
0	S82445056-A20e4cc8a	The European Union should join the belt and road initiative	Just before I begin my strongly-worded statement let me issue a disclaimer: I am really only speaking from a layman's point of view, So I am sure that I have some misguided opinions about the Belt and Road initiative and China in general. I would love to hear where I am thinking about the whole thing incorrectly, But I have reason to be pessimistic about Chinese influence around the world, At least from what I've heard on the news. Why should the EU help an initiative from a country that has imprisoned millions of innocent Uyghurs, Is currently rolling military vehicles into and violently attacking protesters in Hong Kong, Wiped an entire demographic off the map (Tibet anyone? ) and has absolute control over its' citizens (surveilance state, The Great Firewall, As well as the social credit system for example)? You can see beyond the bullsh*t of the 'Green Development Commission' as China creates a big chunk of world emissions which really indicates a lack of interests about 'green development' at all. The Belt and Road initiative appears to be financially beneficial and it might help some people earn some fat stacks, But China has enough money to do frankly unethical and illegal actions literally everywhere. We can already see the terrible effects Chinese influence is having in south-east Asia with illegal Chinese fishing and illegal Chinese logging being a terrible detriment to smaller communities. How can you guarantee that this initiative from a country famous for its' terrible products and unethical global influence has the income of the disadvantaged at its' interests? Don't you think it's just going to make the rich richer, Help China have an unethical and corrupt influence over an essential global monopoly (think about completely empty houses in Canada for example, Rich Chinese people are part of a problem in every country), And be an overall detriment to society? Why should we help this regime which would only extend control to a country that has done many wrongs?	CON	1
1	S82445056-A20672ce6	The European Union should join the belt and road initiative	"Claim: Europe joining the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) will help its economy, Benefiting its people. Warrant: Current cooperation between the European Union and China makes BRI trade favorable. The current connectivity and infrastructure between both sides, Such as the China- Europe freight train or China-EU Connectivity Platform encourages cooperation under the BRI framework. China and Europe have settled previous disputes through negotiations, Which is mutually beneficial to both and is conducive of collaboration under the BRI framework as well. Impact: BRI could increase the EU""s economy by $133 billion. With the improvement of connectivity and transport infrastructure between the BRI region, Trade volumes increase in the EU and the BRI. Contention #2 Claim: Right now, The BRI is about to collapse because China has been running low on funds. If the EU joined, They would be able to provide the money to keep the project going. Warrant: Only the EU is capable of filling the funding gap. Although China experiences constant growth and increasing economic power, It cannot fulfill this project alone, And needs other parties to help out. The EU is a massive economic force that could be a co-owner of the project, And keep the BRI project afloat. Impact: The BRI will save millions from poverty. Findings about the project indicate that global income will increase by almost half a trillion dollars. Though this, The BRI Initiative could contribute to raising about 32 million people from moderate poverty and 7. 6 million people from extreme poverty. Contention #3 Claim: Once a part of the BRI, The European Union can encourage the continuation of the BRI""s green intentions. Warrant: A coalition was created to promote the use of greener energies on the Belt and Road Initiative. Impact: The Belt and Road Initiative International Green Development Coalition (or BRIGC) is a coalition constructed of over 100 international and Chinese partner institutions, And is supported by Chinese President Xi. According to the IISD, ""The BRIGC aims to help integrate sustainable development considerations throughout the design, Execution, And long-term implementation of BRI projects"" The coalition will work on facilitating cooperation on green technology, Including on its exchange and transfer. "" Renewable energy reduces emissions and fights against climate change, Which is displacing, Injuring, And even killing people. From flash floods in East Africa to lethal blistering heat waves in Pakistan, According to the World Resources Institute, ""In the next 12 years, These climate change impacts could push another 100 million people into extreme poverty. "" Green technology implemented in the BRI will greatly combat this, And will save millions of lives from extreme poverty or death due to climate change. The BRI will not only drastically increase the EUs economy, But will also raise millions out of poverty and do so in an environmentally-aware manner."	PRO	2
2	S82445056-A7bfae2af	The European Union should join the belt and road initiative	I'd like to start by rebutting a bit and then onto substantive. My opponent makes quite a claim that the BRI is a 'way to promote world peace', But does not support that whatsoever. This point is made further dubious by Pro simply letting the argument about China inflicting terrible crimes on large populations slide. I ask again: why would China help promote world peace when the countries it has conquered suffer terribly and some are still today fighting for their own rights? The BRI is at its' core a means for China to gain presence internationally. This is a point you can't refute. The BRI requires China to construct things and sacrifice a little, But in the end China gains massive market presence and great trade deals with many countries along the way. World peace can be made without one giant corrupt country doing all the steering. Third-world countries in Africa and across the world which are seeing the BRI as a lifeline to gaining better economic independence are unknowingly steering themselves into indebtedness to a country which will soon become the sole trader to whom they become solely dependent. I have no idea what you mean by saying that (and this is paraphrased) 'Even though China persecutes its' people, The EU has the power to prevent future human rights being ignored; without the EU [joining the BRI] human rights would be ignored. ' Just because the EU has the power (and it certainly doesn't have the power to stand up to China) it doesn't at all guarantee that it would participate in a big step like that. China majorly exports to countries around the world, And if the EU starts accusing China of human rights violations, These countries lose out in a big way economically. Many countries just don't want that. The BRI is already operating in parts of Africa (surprisingly enough) and in South-East Asia and in other parts of the world. In poorer countries it is helping build structures and injecting money, However these countries will remain indebted to China for a very long time, Only further establishing Chinese dominance in the world. I too hope to see your insight on this matter more.	CON	3
3	S82445056-A59050bd5	The European Union should join the belt and road initiative	So I've heard the argument a lot and there is a very simple response and a very complicated response, I will do the simple because I am a man who likes things simple So the simple response is the BRI(belt and road initiative) is not just run by China and so just looking at Chinese politics is not fair to the rest of the countries. Ok what the hell I'll do the complected response The BRI is not just a trade partnership it is a lot more and one such thing is a way to promote world peace, What you say of China persecuting it's people is true it is also true that the EU would have the power and the motivation to prevent future human rights being ignored. Also with out the EU doing this human rights still would be ignored. I hope to see your insight on this matter more	PRO	4
4	S3ac8582e-A7c9e5d5f	the EU should engage in further enlargement	The European Union is no longer in a financial position to be taking in new members.	CON	5
5	S3ac8582e-A683c66f5	the EU should engage in further enlargement	EU expansion is right.	PRO	6
6	S3ac8582e-A1496c71c	the EU should engage in further enlargement	Expansion furthers EU ideals.	PRO	7
7	S3ac8582e-A3429dccf	the EU should engage in further enlargement	There will be an even greater brain drain from poorer countries to richer.	CON	8
8	S3ac8582e-Aaa02ac65	the EU should engage in further enlargement	EU expansion is good for current members politically.	PRO	9
9	S3ac8582e-A6556a37c	the EU should engage in further enlargement	Expansion will create conflicts of interest between members.	CON	10
10	S3ac8582e-Aa6b1fcad	the EU should engage in further enlargement	Expansion would be unpopular.	CON	11
11	S3ac8582e-A7f4bb5ee	the EU should engage in further enlargement	EU expansion is good for current members economically.	PRO	12
