	id	conclusion	premises	stance	rank
0	Sff0947ec-A46d54897	Colleges should abolish the ability for teachers to be tenured.	"Since I assume their opening statement was made in their R1 post, I will begin mine as well. I will be arguing against the idea that tenure for college professors should be abolished. I have three main claims: [Claim 1]: Tenure is a necessity [Claim 2]: Tenured teachers can still be fired (and other misconceptions) [Claim 3]: Research supports tenure [C1]: Tenure is a necessity The concept of tenure dates back over 100 years ago to the early 20 century, when working in the field of education was much different than what it is today [1]. It was female-dominated, classrooms were larger, and working conditions were poorer [2]. Before tenure, teachers could be fired for any reason. If a teacher had the audacity to get married or, even more horrific, pregnant, the schoolboard could immediately fire her. Tenure and teachers' unions were created to guarantee some amount of job protection for teachers. They wanted the peace of mind to know their job wouldn't be terminated for seemingly no reason. At the high school level, most schools require teachers work at the same school for 3-5 years before being considered for tenure, and there are many factors taken into account, with the most important one being a teacher's ability to teach. At the university level, I believe you have to have taught for 6 years before tenure consideration. Once a teacher is granted tenure, however, it does not mean they are immune from being fired. ""Tenure protects academic freedom. In the absence of tenure, teachers may be fired for any reason. Teachers may be fired if the principal doesn't like them or if they are experienced and become too expensive. Teachers may be fired for being outspoken. [2]"" In other words, tenure gives teachers a safeguard to be able to be more involved with the decisions being made at their school, as opposed to being complacent and accepting any and all changes. At the college level, this is incredibly important as professors want to challenge their students and (sometimes) have them confront and critique their already-established beliefs. When I took a Sociology course my senior year of university, our professor warned us of an upcoming lecture the following week where she was going to discuss religion and look at many of the popular ones under a critical lens. I thought this was a strange warning, as anyone whose convictions are strong enough should be fine with having their beliefs challenged. To my surprise, however, many students' parents would contact her to complain. Tenure in this situation protects the professor from being fired simply because a student didn't like one of their lectures. [C2]: Tenured teachers can still be fired (and other misconceptions) There are a lot of myths surrounding the idea of tenure, which is primarily the reason why I accepted this debate in the first place. Some people, for example, think that tenured teachers cannot be fired and have permanent job security forever and can therefore sit back and be a less effective teacher with no criticism whatsoever. This is absolutely not true. Again, tenure grants teachers job security and the inability to be fired without due process. Ineffective (or ""bad"") teachers can still be terminated. However, I think firing someone with no intervention or professional development workshops to help them is a bit harsh. Tenure (especially at the university level) is something that needs to be earned from the hardest-working teachers after a long and arduous process. They have to have committed some amount of research outside their teaching hours, demonstrate very strong teaching abilities, among many other factors. Tenure does not ""protect"" ""burnt-out"" teachers either. ""How many students have complained about a teacher they see as too strict or ""boring"" - only to realize later in life that this teacher made a profound difference in their lives? Research shows that there is no one style that equates to effective teaching - which underscores why a fair hearing is needed before the imposition of a serious consequence such as firing a teacher who has demonstrated years of effective teaching. [3]"" [C3]: Research supports tenure Not only have we established tenure does not help bad teachers keep their job, but there is abolutely no research that suggests students perform worse on standardized tests when taught by a tenured teacher, nor is there evidence that supports perform better with non-tenured teachers [2]. Not only this, but tenured teachers and professors also feel to have a higher obligation to be involved in school-making decisions. ""Research finds that when teachers have a say in how schools are run, they are more likely to be invested in the school and to stay longer, and are more engaged with colleagues in cooperative work. [4]"" In conclusion, tenure is a necessary provision for good teachers and promotes a stronger school culture, thus increasing academic achievement, not hindering it. The myth that tenure protects ineffective teachers is simply untrue. I await Pro's response. Thank you. Sources: [1] http://www.peoplesworld.org... [2] http://www.nytimes.com... [3] http://www.nysut.org... [4] http://www.aft.org..."	CON	1
1	Se3f07189-A638f0f08	Should teachers union be abolished	"""Verizon and general motors aren't teaching the future."" Of course they are not but a union is a union. If it is my opponent's argument that the teachers union should be abolished because they have the ability to strike, perhaps my opponent can state how many times teachers have took to the picket lines, the length of time of the strikes and exactly how these strikes hurt the future of America. Please elaborate how this is relevant to the debate. The barrier to entry into the profession is relevant to this debate. A teacher in New York City has a to achieve a level of education comparable to doctors and attorneys. New York is a right to work state, meaning that employees can be fired at any time for any reason, except if the employer violates the Equal Employment Opportunity Act. With this being said, it is my argument that it would not be beneficial to society if a teaching professional who has obtained a bachelor's degree, a master's degree, passed state licensing exams, and completed an internship to be terminated simply because a principal may not like the teacher personally. A principal could do this if it were not for the protection that the teachers union provides. ""Your right. There are a lot more variables to why a student might fail. But when you have a teacher who is show over and over again to be proven ineffective, that's not a coincidence. But because it's nearly impossible to fire that teacher due to the unions, there's a problem."" It takes 3 years of teaching in a classroom before tenure is awarded. When a teacher becomes tenured the teacher is considered to be qualified to continue as a teaching professional. In the event that a school board or city wishes to terminate a teacher, the first step in the process is remediation, where the teacher is given a 1 year period in which to improve his or her job performance. In the event the teacher fails during the remediation period a series of hearings take place to ensure the reasons for the teacher to be fired are warranted. This process takes approximately 10 months but only takes place if the teacher requests the hearings. At the end of the hearings, which again take approximately 10 months if the school board agrees with the finding the teacher is terminated. [1] As you can see, this process takes approximately 2 years in which a majority of the time is spent trying to correct the teacher's deficiencies. It's not impossible, it's called due process. ""That's not a sufficient enough argument to justify why teachers deserve union protection."" Fair enough, ""the point of tenure is to protect teachers from arbitrarily being fired. Teachers need protection from over-zealous bosses and ideological politicians. This is the same thinking behind seniority rules, which protect more expensive teachers from being laid off due to budget cuts. Teaching is not a high-paying job compared to jobs in the private sector, and one of the benefits is some job security. Occasionally this means bad teachers take longer to fire."" [1] I have an idea! How about we make teachers unions illegal, and if a teacher is show to be effective we give them a pay raise, if not we fire them. Simple. Merit pay is a topic for another debate but if a teacher is not performing as he or she should they can be fired via due process. I fail to see how abolishing the teachers union will have a positive effect on the education the future of America receives. [1]http://www.forbes.com..."	CON	2
2	Se3f07189-Aecbb7c4b	Should teachers union be abolished	"I would like to begin my rebuttal by addressing my opponent""s statement that ""teachers have to strike."" As with any unionized profession a strike is a last resort and normally occurs when there is a standstill in negotiations. However, in places such as New York City, teachers are not allowed to strike as a result of the Taylor Law [1]. The Taylor Law makes it illegal for any unionized public employee to strike. In the event that public employees do strike they are penalized by having to pay two (2) day""s worth of wages for each (1) strike day. Stating that teachers have to strike is the same as saying that auto workers have to strike. With regard to tenure, tenure is earned after a probationary period of 3 years. [2] During this 3 year period a teacher can be terminated for being ineffective. Although the term tenure is, for the most part, synonymous with the profession of educator the term probationary period is not. Correction officers, police officers, firefighters and others in public service must also serve a probationary period in order to be afforded union protection against unfair and unjust termination. Non effective teachers are not protected by tenure. As with any unionized member in any profession, a non-effective employee can be terminated for job performance whether tenured or not. However, being tenured allows for due process should a school district or city wish to terminate a teacher for ineffectiveness. My opponent is correct in the statement that ""unions donate to politicians to push their own agenda."" However, the teachers union is one of many unions. Basing an argument on this statement, I could easily argue that all unions should be abolished on this premise. However, unions donating to push their own agenda are no different than a person voting Republican, a person voting Democrat or for any other party line. Politics in itself revolves around agendas. Why does the National Rifle Association donate approximately $7,000,000 per year to Congress? [3] One has to ask, what is the agenda of teachers in the public education system? Personally I feel it is to educate the future of America. If not, why deal with the negative stigma of the profession which on average earns a person approximetly $42,000 per year. [4] [1] http://www.perb.ny.gov... [2] http://teaching.about.com... [3]http://ivn.us... [4]http://www.payscale.com..."	CON	3
3	Se3f07189-A2885f8e4	Should teachers union be abolished	However, in places such as New York City, teachers are not allowed to strike as a result of the Taylor Law This is true. However teachers in other places can still go on strike as they did in Chicago (the 3rd largest district in the US) in September [1]. During this 3 year period a teacher can be terminated for being ineffective. Again this is true. One again though after tenure is earned the process of firing a teacher is long complicated process that is costly [2]. In New York firing a teacher is like breaking a diamond. What happens is the ineffective teachers typically get passed along from school to school without ever getting fired. I'd agree with my opponent’s agenda point. why deal with the negative stigma of the profession which on average earns a person approximately $42,000 per year. It's important to that teachers wages tend to rise with experience and there are other factors too like cost-of living. For example a teacher North Dakota makes half of the average salary but living costs are cheaper in North Dakota then in New York [4]. The reason we should deal with the negative stigma is because as said they're teaching the future of America. There only a handful of jobs that guide the direction of America’s future economic viability. [1] http://www.huffingtonpost.com... [2] http://nj1015.com... [3] http://www.oprah.com... [4] http://www.payscale.com...	PRO	4
4	Se3f07189-A23b4f76b	Should teachers union be abolished	My opponent has failed to meet his burden of proof as to why the teachers union should be abolished as well as what benefit would be provided to the students of America in the event that the teachers union is abolished. In addition my opponent has forfeited the final round of this debate. As such I respectfully request a vote for Con.	CON	5
5	Se3f07189-A44ef099a	Should teachers union be abolished	"The teachers in Chicago did indeed strike. As I stated earlier in my argument a strike is normally a last resort and is a result of a breakdown in negotiations which is exactly what happened in Chicago. [1] Strikes that come to mind included the auto workers of General Motors as well as the workers of Verizon in New York. Arguing that the teachers union should be abolished because some can strike is the same as saying that the auto workers union should be abolished because they can strike. My opponent has stated that ""In New York firing a teacher is like breaking a diamond. What happens is the ineffective teachers typically get passed along from school to school without ever getting fired."" My opponent is correct in stating that firing teachers in New York is costly. I will attack this argument making two points. My first point is that New York State has a very high barrier to entry into the profession of teaching. Teachers must obtain a Bachelor's Degree in order to obtain their Initial Teaching Certificate which is valid for a period of five years. During the period of time the teacher is earning his or her Bachelor's Degree the teacher must also obtain the Internship Certificate. Within this five year period the teacher must also earn a Master's Degree and must continue ongoing professional development in order to earn the Professional Certificate. [2] There are also exams that must be passed in order to obtain both the Initial Certificate and Professional Certificate. My second point is that there is a serious question as to exactly what makes a teacher ineffective. Politicians and the media alike feel that the most effective way to evaluate a teacher is to tie the teacher""s performance to standardized test scores. However, simply tying teacher performance to standardized test scores ignores the individual learning ability of each child, economic factors and most important as far as I'm concerned is the level of involvement of each student""s parent or parents. How can a teacher should be held accountable for a student not performing if the student continuously misses classroom days, does not complete homework assignments and project assignments? A student such as this will simply not perform up to standards. A teacher""s job is to educate children not raise peoples children for them. If a school district or city feels that a teacher is that detrimental to students then why is cost a factor, especially if educating the future of America is of the utmost importance? With regard to my opponent""s final point with regard to salary and negative stigma, salaries in most professions will vary depending on cost of living within different geographical areas. However, when considering the level of entry and education needed to become a teaching professional there are easier alternatives that can earn a person with the same level of education. In fact, approximately 20% of teacher quit the profession with two years. [3] According to a survey conducted by The National Center for Education Statistics ""61% cited more professional working conditions in their new careers verses their time teaching. That same group said their workload was 65% more manageable outside of teaching and they were 65% more likely to better balance their personal and professional life after leaving their teaching career."" [3] There is no denying that being a teaching professional is a difficult career. In my opinion it makes it even more difficult when the general population has no idea of how difficult and challenging the career is. Especially when politicians who have never been in a classroom setting wish to dictate exactly how to educate students and wishes to terminate teachers as being ineffective when there is no concrete way to judge exactly what makes a teacher ineffective. For this reason alone, teachers deserve union protection. I fail to see any argument that my opponent has made thus far that shows how abolishing the teachers union will have a positive impact on the education received by America's students. [1] http://www.cnn.com... [2]http://schools.nyc.gov... [3]http://teaching.monster.com..."	CON	6
6	Se3f07189-Aead8dad7	Should teachers union be abolished	First i'd like to thank my opponent for accepting this debate. As i'm looking forward to a productive debate. To begin, i'd like to state why teachers unions should be abolished. Teacher's unions are detrimental to this nation's public education system because, teacher's have the to strike which interrupts learning of the student, tenure, protection for proven noneffective teachers, and union's donate to politicians to advance their own agenda. These unions put their own agenda in front of what be a number #1 priority for them, teaching this nation's children.	PRO	7
7	Se3f07189-Ad19d53a4	Should teachers union be abolished	"Strikes that come to mind included the auto workers of General Motors as well as the workers of Verizon in New York. Arguing that the teachers union should be abolished because some can strike is the same as saying that the auto workers union should be abolished because they can strike. Verizon and general motors aren't teaching the future. My first point is that New York State has a very high barrier to entry into the profession of teaching. Teachers must obtain a Bachelor's Degree in order to obtain their Initial Teaching Certificate which is valid for a period of five years. During the period of time the teacher is earning his or her Bachelor's Degree the teacher must also obtain the Internship Certificate. Within this five year period the teacher must also earn a Master's Degree and must continue ongoing professional development in order to earn the Professional Certificate. [2] There are also exams that must be passed in order to obtain both the Initial Certificate and Professional Certificate. Please elaborate how this is relevant to the debate. My second point is that there is a serious question as to exactly what makes a teacher ineffective. Politicians and the media alike feel that the most effective way to evaluate a teacher is to tie the teacher""s performance to standardized test scores. However, simply tying teacher performance to standardized test scores ignores the individual learning ability of each child, economic factors and most important as far as I'm concerned is the level of involvement of each student""s parent or parents. How can a teacher should be held accountable for a student not performing if the student continuously misses classroom days, does not complete homework assignments and project assignments? A student such as this will simply not perform up to standards. A teacher""s job is to educate children not raise peoples children for them. If a school district or city feels that a teacher is that detrimental to students then why is cost a factor, especially if educating the future of America is of the utmost importance? Your right. There are a lot more variables to why a student might fail. But when you have a teacher who is show over and over again to be proven ineffective, that's not a coincidence. But because it's nearly impossible to fire that teacher due to the unions, there's a problem. http://www.youtube.com... For this reason alone, teachers deserve union protection That's not a sufficient enough argument to justify why teachers deserve union protection. I have an idea! How about we make teachers unions illegal, and if a teacher is show to be effective we give them a pay raise, if not we fire them. Simple."	PRO	8
8	S1b03f390-Aa73ba80f	The collective bargaining rights of teachers should be removed	I thank my opponent for his reply. I will not debunk some of my opponents claims. Introduction I resent that my opponent stated that it is ‘unfortunate’ that we are having this debate both here on a national level. This statement is outrageous. Should the status quo not be challenged, especial If the status quo is harming America’s economic performance, and damaging America’s schools? Also, this debate is not about whether education and teachers are important. Of course I realize the value of teachers and education. This is the common ground that we both agree on. However, it is because I favor them that I am opposed to teacher unions. Education and the future of America should not be hijacked by special interests aimed at helping adults rather than students. To state that anti-union is anti-teacher is like saying being in favor of antitrust law is anti-business. Protecting Teachers My opponent first claims that teachers need protection. This is a false claim. Here’s why a school board would be unwilling to fire a teacher haphazardly: First, the process of searching and finding a teacher is a lengthy and expense process. To find a teacher one has to look over many applications, set up interviews, and pay for advertising the job. Once the teacher is hired, one has to pay for teacher orientation, and file paper work for the new employee. Second off, it’s risky business to fire a teacher that is competent and replace him or her with a teacher that has the potential to be incompetent. In the hiring process, even If one thoroughly looks over credentials, there is still a great possibility that the applicant is incompetent. So as long as the teacher has a decent level of competency, it is much better for the school to keep the teacher then to fire the teacher and risk a new teacher. Third, If a school or school district is known to have a high turnover rate, then it’s unlikely that competent teachers will apply there. Therefore a school district is unlikely to do this. Employees in the private sector do not need to be protected, in which 93.1% of employees in the private sector are not part of unions. Even in the public sector, 63.8% of employees are not unionized. However, it should be noted that If incompetent teachers are not fired, then it means that recent college graduates and those seeking a teacher position that are component are unable to do so. The problem is that teachers are protected too much. It is nearly impossible to fire a teacher once he or she receives tenure. In New York City, a “rubber room” was creates specifically designed to pay bad teachers to do nothing. Literally, teachers that got in trouble for sexual misconduct, unwilling to follow the curriculum, or abusiveness were just sent to a building to do what they wanted with pay and benefits[1]. Teachers receive more job security than any other occupation. There is no reason for this. Protecting bad teachers simply hurt the schools. Students do not learn what they need to. Often times, teachers need to review material that should have been learned previous years, but an incompetent teacher simply did not teach the material. This drags everyone down. Education is too important for bad teachers to recieve protection. According to this video, If just the bottom 6-10 percent of all teachers were eliminated, then American education would be at the level of Finland, a nation with top education.(watch 1:08 onward). Past Practices If I am correct, my opponent’s main argument here is that teachers have the right to collective bargaining because it is not specifically prohibited in state and local law. This argument fails for many reasons. For one, this debate framework is based on moral principles not legal principals. I specially stated that I was using an Unitarianism framework. This is a basic appeal to authority argument, using the law as a legit authority. It would equivalent to if this was the year 1940 in Nazi, Germany for me to argue that one should not hide Jews from the government because it is against the law. Second, this argument easily fails once a law is introduced to bar teachers from collective right bargaining. Other Legal Issues I will repeat my argument that I stated earlier. Legal issues should not be a major consideration since laws can be changed, and are not a moral authority. My opponent states that teachers should receive collective bargaining rights since other public employees like firefighters, police, etc. also maintain the right. Just because other public employees engage in collective bargaining does not make it morally right. This is analogous stating that a murderer should not be locked in jail since other murders get away with it scot free. I am against collective bargaining in the public sector. I would remove the collective bargaining rights of firefighters and other public employees, however this debate is specifically about teachers. In terms of the argument that the NLRA does not cover public employees, there are also many checks that exist in the private sector that reduce the power of unions while these checks do not exist in the public sector. It should also be noted that many public employees can not engage in specific collective bargaining tactics. For example, police officers are not allowed to go on strike. So it is not unreasonable to remove teacher’s rights to collective bargaining. Specialization and Demands My opponent states that since teachers invest in a college education to obtain a teaching degree, that he or she should be protected. I will explain the problem with this. There is no reason to suspect that teacher unions increase teacher employment. If you protect bad teachers you can’t let potentially good teachers enter the market. So this argument actually works in my favor, since college graduates spend many years studying the field and get into debt, only to find that they can’t get a job because there are no vacancies. It’s also another point in my favor that teacher unions increase the salary and benefts of teachers, creating a surplus of teacher applicants and increasing the number of those who will invest in a teaching degree but will not be able to find a teaching career. Many other jobs that require more specialization are less protected. For example, Doctors and Lawyers have to spend much more years and tuition to practice in the field. However, neither doctors nor lawyers are unionized. One out of every 57 doctor will lose their medical license and one out of 97 lawyers will lose their license to practice law. Remember, this is losing their license to practice, not just getting fired, the latter a far less severe punishment. For teachers, 1 in every 1000 teacher is fired after tenure for performance based reasons [2]. However, the question is: should people be protected from the financial risks they make? No. Society should not bare the risks of an individul's choice. An entrepreneur that decides to start a new business must bear the risks as well. Consumers should not be forced to buy the product and the business should not be protected. If new technology automates jobs, then there’s no reason these jobs should be protected. Once one gets into the mindset that jobs must be protected in order to save them from mal-investments, economic growth, consumer choice and efficiency cannot be maintained. Jobs will always exist through this creative destructive process; they will just be reallocated to different fields. Even If a college graduate is unable to find a teacher career, a college degree is versatile and many people enter careers outside of their specialization. Conclusion: I have refuted the legal claims and protectionism claims my opponent has made. I look forward to my opponents response to my arguments. http://tinyurl.com...[1] http://www.youtube.com...[2] http://tinyurl.com...[	PRO	9
9	S591127c0-Ad4834c95	Tenured teachers don't always deserve protection from unions	We are going to make two points. The first is to stipulate as factual Instigator's contention bad teachers are allowed to remain in the classroom rather than give an opportunity to more innovative and qualified teachers. The second is to state it's not the unions fault. The fault lies with the administration and with the school board. What Instigator suggests is the unions not do their job or at least one of their jobs which is to represent and protect the interests of their members. Ethical standards and legal requirements do not allow them to decline to represent 'bad' teachers. There is a way to get rid of bad teachers-- school boards can enact policies allowing for removing such teachers; and administrators can document cases against them. Unions can fight it as they should but if the school boards and administrators do their jobs the bad teachers will go-- and the good teachers who may be unfairly or mistakenly targeted. will be protected. It is the last point why unions should be allowed to protect bad teachers	CON	10
10	Sff0947ec-A8ab4b1ab	Colleges should abolish the ability for teachers to be tenured.	Teachers who perform below benchmarks such as retention, attendance, academic performance results, assessing required learning outcomes and student feedback, should not be allowed tenure because students suffer to be successful and colleges suffer in graduation rates.	PRO	11
11	S1b03f390-Af6cc7be2	The collective bargaining rights of teachers should be removed	I thank my opponent for the debate. CON falsely claims that I have not shown that collective bargaining are responsible for education inefficiency. I have shown multiple reasons why collective bargaining is inefficient. It is mathematically proven to be inefficient based on the theory of monopolies. It is also responsible for inefficiency by blocking education reform. CON states that school districts cannot raise taxes. However teacher unions finance politicians in exchange the politician raises taxes, which would allow increasing the budget. AFT has donated millions of dollars in campaign contributions. However, teacher unions do increase the size of the school budget. CON even states that the biggest expense is labor. Yet teacher unions are directly responsible for the high cost of labor since collective bargaining raises that cost. As I already showed, teachers are paid more than psychologists, and public teachers receive much higher salaries then private nonunionized teachers. CON states that removing collective bargaining rights will create bad teachers since they will get paid less. First, If a teacher cannot be fired, then the teacher will have less of a financial incentive to teach well. Second, If falling salaries create poor teachers, then the school district will increase teacher salary. No unions required. Privatized schools do better than public schools, yet pay teachers less and do not unionize teachers. CON dismisses the difference between public and private sector bargaining, but does not give an explanation why even though I showed why public sector bargaining is quite different and more dangerous to economic liberty than private sector bargaining. Rejecting an argument arbitrary is not a form of argumentation. CON states unions are responsible for many government worker regulations, yet there is no proof that either unions are responsible or that the regulations are good. OSHA safety regulation has done nothing to increase safety, and the rate of reduction in workplace fatalities has not decreased due to OSHA [1]. Mandating a 40-hour work week is also pointless. People choose work based on how much he or she is willing to work. Hence, this is why part-time jobs exists. The market works so that workers salaries and working conditions improve as capital resources and technology improves, and no unions or government intervention is needed. Henry Ford decided to pay his workers a higher salary, give them less hours of work, and created a sociological department to improve workers lives. Henry Ford did not do this out of generosity, because he wanted healthy workers and less turnovers. He was actually quite anti-union as well. CON’s only rebuttal to education being a public service is that ‘It is what it is’ and even confirms that teacher unions are responsible. What he is rebutting is wrong, since I favor school choice. School choice is what makes US universities the best in the world. CON argues against a program proven to work that the teacher union blocks. CON states that tenure and dismissal is set through the states and should be part of the debate. This is wrong. His own source shows that teacher unions play a part in tenure. “The following are some of the matters that are often the subject of this bargaining: Tenure”[2] Also: When school attendant, Michelle Rhee proposed a voluntarily two-tier track to either have teachers have tenure or give teachers the potential to earn as much as $140,00 per year, the teacher union needed to vote on the proposal. Why are they voting if they have no say? [3] Introduction: CON is using ad homeinum attacks to discredit me. He says that the status quo is not being challenged for the right reasons. I just provided arguments and reasons in this debate to explain the problem. And somehow I should be discredit since I have a financial incentive, yet somehow teachers do not have a financial incentive to keep the status quo. Really? Also CON accuses me of not being an expert and should listen to the teachers, yet what about the school attendances that try to push education reform yet fail? Isn’t the school attendant the expert in education? Why aren’t the teacher unions listening to them? What about the teacher in the video I showed that spoke out against the teacher unions? Con is trying to discredit me without providing any arguments. This is a foul debate tactic. Protection: CON states that this is a clear turn, without actually citing why it should be a turn. Does he want teachers that commit sexual misconduct, abusiveness, and do not follow the curriculum? Extend arguments that teachers do not need to be protected due to internal system that protect teachers. CON keeps on going on the fact that teachers are at the mercy of the students. This is like stating that doctors are at the mercy of their patient. Everyone realizes that a patient dying from terminal cancer is different from a patient dying from a broken arm. Everyone knows that teaching students that are not educated to begin with is difficult. I already explained that teacher performance can be evaluated by measuring the performance of students before and after the school year. CON then tries to attack my claims, stating that I’m not a teacher. So what? Does he seriously believe that somehow private teachers and lawyers attract much more bad performers then public teachers, and that’s why the teacher firing rate is so low? Give me a break. I was a high school student a few years back with good grades. There were some really bad teachers out there. Past Practice Resolution: The collective bargaining rights of teachers should be removed Implementation: Create a law that removes the collective bargaining rights of teachers There, refuted. Other Legal Issues Create a law that removes collective bargaining rights of state employees. There, refuted. As explained earlier, state budgets can easily be increased through taxation obtained through coercion. The product in the public sector does not need to be demanded unlike products in the private sector. If you have a relentless private union who refuses to compromise, the company goes bankrupt. If you have a relentless public union who refuses to compromise, the government raises taxes or increases the debt. Teacher unions and other public unions pay off politicians to raise taxes or increase the debt in order to finance their budgets. Specialization CON states that it is not the job of the union to create jobs. So this argument is nonsense, since a teacher is still taking a huge risk since a job cannot be guaranteed. In fact, based on my previous analysis, unions make the risks greater. The AMA and bar association are quite different from AFT since lawyers and medical professions lose their license much more frequently then teachers, do not contribute any campaign money to politicians, and are used to improve the profession. Go on to the AMA and bar association and you’ll find published peer reviewed journals, ways to improve oneself professionally. Go on AFT and you’ll find almost none of that. CON uses the excuse for lawyers and doctors that many of them work individually. Note that many doctors work at hospitals, and many lawyers work at law firms and corporations, yet are not unionized. Also note that a teacher can work independently as a tutor. CON still not explain why teachers should be “protected” due to financial risks, but not others. Conclusion: CON fails to defend his arguments and instead uses ad homenium attacks and appeal to (false) athority arguments isntead of actually takig on my arguments. I look forward to the final round. http://www.coyoteblog.com...[1] http://www.enotes.com...[2] http://teachersunionexposed.com...[	PRO	12
12	S1b03f390-Ab387b162	The collective bargaining rights of teachers should be removed	"Thanks to Darkkermit for his argument. I’m now going to pick up where I left off in refutation. My opponent speaks of increasing efficiency in education by removing collective bargaining. He hasn’t shown though, that bargaining itself, is responsible for the inefficiencies. I’ve seen no fix so far that warrants an intrusion on the rights of teachers to make choices about their representation. Finances are a consideration, but school districts are NOT able to raise taxes. They can ask for an increase in the budget, but are unlikely to see any change, other than negative, when times are bad. A union can not “raise the price of it’s labor”, it can only ask for that raise in negotiations. One of the biggest expenses in any industry is labor costs. That will not change by removing bargaining. Common sense dictates that making a profession less financially secure, and denying rights based on public sentiment will dissuade people from joining the profession. This will lead to having to keep bad teachers, not because of the union, but out of necessity. We’re going to get what we pay for. My opponent talks about differences between public and private sector bargaining, and percentage of union workers. Those things are largely irrelevant to the resolution. It should be noted that the decrease in private sector union members coincides with the loss of middle-class manufacturing jobs, and also an increase in worker protection mandated by law. Many things workers enjoy today, OSHA safety regulations, 40-hour work week, overtime pay, vacations, FMLA and military leave, etc., can be attributed to the struggles of unions. Those benefits aren’t only given to union workers though, thus my contention that unions affect ALL workers in a good way. Unions act as a check and balance system, the only options are to keep them, or depend on increased governmental regulation. Below is an excerpt from a very interesting, and relevant article that all should read.(4) ""Legislated labor protections are sometimes considered alternatives to collective bargaining in the workplace, but the fact of the matter is that a top-down strategy of legislating protections may not be influential unless there is also an effective voice and intermediary for workers at the workplace—unions. In all of the research surveyed, no institutional factor appears as capable as unions of acting in workers' interests (Weil 2003). Labor legislation and unionization are best thought of as complements, not substitutes."" He argues against education being a public service, but it is what it is. He is free to fight for change, but in the meantime, his disagreement with the system does not warrant punishing teachers. They have a right to fight against that change, just as he does to fight for it. Teacher strikes are becoming a thing of the past. Many states are passing no-strike laws. Though pro-union, I agree with this trend, and so do many teachers(1). I do not defend teacher's strikes, and refer back to my argument about finding a middle ground and not allowing the hard-liners, on either side, to be in complete control. There is a middle ground, and many states are finding it, where strikes are concerned. My opponent keeps alluding to difficulty in firing teachers. I've shown that tenure and dismissal is set by the states, not the collective bargaining process, and should not be part of this debate. These videos and articles do nothing but attempt to prejudice the reader, and distract from the issues. They are highly prejudicial, and should not be given weight in the decision. They are evidence of the highly political nature of my opponents position. Introduction Sorry that my opponent resents my statement. Perhaps if the status quo were being challenged for the right reasons, and teachers weren’t scapegoats for the anti-union movement, I might be more receptive to his cause. With due respect, having a financial stake in something does not make us experts in what the real problems are in that system. Teachers are there everyday, in the classroom, they know what the problems are, they are the experts, not us. If my opponent valued teachers, as he claimed, he would respect that fact. He would also respect their ability to know what they need, and allow them to make choices for themselves, rather than protest against them under the guise of protecting them. The only “hijacking” being done, is that of their individual rights and freedom of association. Protection My opponent’s argument seems to me to be a clear impact turn. First he argues that it’s too hard to fire a teacher, but here he has presented evidence as to why it SHOULD be hard. This argument shows why it is not in the best interest of education, or the public, to fire teachers except in clearly egregious cases. Also, I restate that tenure is usually a matter of law, not bargaining. What if the bottom 6-10% of teachers are those in the most difficult schools, with the most difficult students?? Does that mean that they should be fired just to make room for unproven college grads?? Of course not, that’s absurd and unless they can be shown to be deserving of termination, my opponent’s above argument is why it’s in no one’s best interest. My opponent has yet to address the issue of teachers being at the mercy of the quality of students. I’ll say again that teachers are the only ones who know what protections they need. For someone who isn’t a teacher to claim to know what workplace issues they face, and need help with is absurd. Unions provide many protections for the rights of teachers, not just disciplinary issues. Past Practice There is no pre-set framework that I must abide by in this debate. My opponent is free to make whatever arguments he wishes, as am I. We could not do justice to a debate on this subject if we did not consider legal issues. Past practice means that if an employer gives a right to workers, and it is clearly understood by both parties, they cannot just arbitrarily remove that right without due process. Creating a mob mentality and attacking the rights of a group without due process is immoral. As I said this is a case-by-case issue, applicable in some, not so in others, depending on laws in that state. When laws are passed banning the right, then we have a different discussion. Until then legal issues must be considered. Other Legal Issues My opponent seems to be injecting his morals here, but what makes his morals the authority that all should be bound by?? He doesn't like unions, that's fine, he has the right not to join one. Yet he's in favor of taking away another's right to decide for themself. Why is that the correct moral position?? I maintain that if one group of public employees has a right, it is discriminatory to remove the right from another group. The strike issue has been addressed. The same checks exist in the public sector. ALL employees are bound by budgets, whether they're public or private sector. Specialization It is not the job of unions to create jobs, to use that as an argument them is misleading. Doctors and lawyers usually work for themselves, under their own license. There are many organizations that represent the interests of these professions. The AMA (2), APA, the Bar Association (3), to name a few. Are they politically active?? Yes. Do doctors and lawyers have a right to have a voice in our political system, where it affects their profession?? Yes, and so do teachers. “Society should not bare the risks of an individul's choice”- Society demands specialized degrees for this service to the public, those who comply should be rewarded, not penalized and raked over the coals just because there are a few bad teachers. 1. http://www.nysdeputy.org... 2. http://www.ama-assn.org...? 3. http://www.americanbar.org... 4. http://www.epi.org..."	CON	13
13	S1b03f390-A83595b7e	The collective bargaining rights of teachers should be removed	"I would like to thank Darkkermit for his participation, as well, and look forward to a fruitful discussion. He and I discussed this issue in the forums, a while back, and had some differing opinions so it should be fun to formally debate this topic and see what comes out of it. I will be representing the con position, arguing that the bargaining rights of teachers should not be removed. Opening Argument It's unfortunate that we're having this debate, not just on DDO, but on a national level, as well. Teachers are instrumental in shaping who we are as individuals, in some cases even more so than parents. We rarely stop to consider just how important they are in establishing a foundation, for the success of our nation. Everything we are, everything we will become, every success we have in life, will be at least partially attributable to the contributions of teachers. The thought of taking collective bargaining rights away, thus removing all workplace protections, seems appalling to me. If any group of people deserve to be protected, it's teachers. Throughout this debate I will attempt to show good cause for allowing teachers to keep collective bargaining rights. I will also make a number of points, in support of my position through refutation of my opponents arguments. Hopefully after this debate, you'll agree that this group of dedicated professionals that we entrust with our most prized possessions, our children, deserves to have a means of protection, in the workplace. Teachers Need Protection Few ever stop to consider the tremendous amount of liability that teachers carry on their shoulders, on a daily basis. In today's letigious society, the simple act of hugging a child, even if initiated by the child, can be misconstrued as inapropriate contact, by an angry parent. Every aspect of a teacher's life is tied to their job. Their morality, their beliefs, what they do in their private lives, both past and present, what they do on-line, can subject them to disciplinary action, under the broad term ""moral turpitude"". In the classroom, teachers are evaluated formally, or informally, a number of times each year. A big part of their effectiveness though, is based on how their students do on standardized testing. This part of the evaluation leaves out many important factors, not the least of which, is the quality of the students themselves. If students don't understand the importance of, or simply don't care how they do on these tests, and many don't, this can have a negative effect on administrators' view of how effective that teacher is. The simple fact is that not all kids want to learn, and try as they might, teachers can only do so much. At that point, a teacher is dependent on school administrators and parents being engaged. Teachers are willing to accept responsibility for their students, but at some point, we have to accept the fact that they are severely limited in what they can do, and stop holding them responsible. The problem is that the public, and many administrators, don't draw a line, holding the teacher wholely responsible for that student, in spite of failed parents and administrators. Unions provide fair representation for teachers in disciplinary matters, and strive to assure that the action taken against teachers is just. Later I will go into some legal issues involved in the argument over collective bargaining. In meeting his burden of proof, my opponent needs to show why these laws, dealing with the constitutional rights of individuals, should be changed. It should also become apparent to the reader that in enacting these laws, our legislatures are conceding that teachers need protection in the workplace. The very nature of their work makes them vulnerable to unfair treatment from the public, school officials, and the public agency that employs them. There are many other reasons why teachers need protection, and they will be discussed throughout this debate, things like financial issues, difficulty in firing teachers, etc. I'm intentionally leaving them out of my argument because I'm sure they'll be introduced by my opponent, so they will be addressed in refutation. Past Practice ""Past practice is a labor relations term of art that is used to describe a pattern of behavior that is clear and unequivocal, longstanding, known to both parties, and accepted without protest or significant attempt to stop the behavior. If the pattern of behavior is not in conflict with law or controlling government-wide regulations, and if it involves a condition of employment of bargaining unit employees, it usually qualifies as a ""past practice"""". (1) As a representative of the United Steelworkers of America for nine years, I argued a number of grievances and contract issues on the grounds of past practice. It's usually easy to win a past practice case, however there are exceptions. The above description is a very good guideline for what it takes to win. The supreme court has ruled that past practice can be sufficient for setting precedence. I'm not going to post a whole lot of case law though, because bottom line is that the effectiveness of a past practice argument is dependent on whether it is, or is not, ""in conflict with law or controlling government-wide regulations"". If state or local laws expressly prohibit collective bargaining for teachers, past practice will likely fail as a legal challenge, even if they've had that right for 10 years, simply because it conflicts with law. However, if state or local law is ambiguous, or does not ""expressly"" prohibit collective bargaining, and those rights have been given to teachers for a time, then there is little reason to deny that as a legal precedent, given the supreme court's findings on past practice as precedent. From a legal standpoint, the effectiveness of a past practice argument is going to vary with each state, according to the law, as written. It DOES become an effective argument in this debate though, when you stop to consider that if it were ""expressly prohibited"" in state law, those rights would likely not have been given to teachers, in the first place. Other Legal Issues Public employees are not covered by the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA), federal act that gives private sector employees the right to unionize, and requires employers to bargain with unions (2). There are some states though, that have their own version of the NLRA specifically for public sector employees, that does give them those rights (3). Removing collective bargaining rights from teachers may be discriminatory. Other public employees have collective bargaining rights, firefighters, police, etc. Removing these rights from teachers, because they are public employees, while allowing them to remain for other public employees is difficult to defend as non-discriminatory. Of course this issue will vary by location, and law. Specialization and Demands Teaching is a specialized field, in that the educational requirements have few applications in other fields. We demand that teachers be highly qualified, and highly educated. We require them to get a degree in education, but above elementary school, we require a more specialized degree. We demand that they have these things, which require student loans for most people, so we must be willing to pay for them, and allow protections for those who do what we require. I look forward to Dark's response on these issues. 1. http://www.ilrf.net... 2. http://www.dol.gov... 3. http://www.nysdeputy.org..."	CON	14
14	S1b03f390-A22aff8a0	The collective bargaining rights of teachers should be removed	"I would like to thank my opponent for participating in this tournament. As part of the debate format, in each round one is either affirming one's own case or making a rebuttal. Never both in the same round. This is to save character space. The final round is a conclusion, in which no arguments or rebuttals are made. Each side just makes a case why he felt his arguments were better. If my opponent accepts these conditions then we shall proceed. Definition Collective bargaining – workers do not bargain their salary as an individual, but collectively as an organization, usually through a trade union that represent their interests, using various tactics to obtain higher salaries and benefits, which would fail under individual action. I will use the moral framework of utilitarianism. Utilitarianism states that an action should be taken If the utility, or well being of society, will be improved overall from that action. I concede that removing collective bargaining would harm employed teachers. However in this policy, the benefit teachers obtain are so low in comparison to the utility society would receive that the good outweighs the bad. I will make the assumption that education benefits society. Education teaches students critical thinking and students learn information that can benefit themselves through a higher salary and benefit society as a whole. Schooling is an issue that affects everyone. Everyone has had to go to school at some point in their life and many parents have children in school. A well educated population is necessary If a nation wants to remain a wealthy nation and to uphold the ideas of the republic. I can embark more on why education is important, but unless questioned, I will assume it is a given. I will also demonstrate that removing collective bargaining rights would increase the efficiency of school systems and would allow for school reforms that would improve education. This benefits society since it reduces costs on education and improves education. It will note why collective bargaining in the private sector is vastly different then collective bargaining in the public sector. The collective bargaining power of unions in the private sector is relatively weak. If a labor union demands higher compensation, the private firm may be unable to deliver it, since the polices can bankrupt the firm. This is the reason why only 6.9% of workers in the private sector are privatized[1]. However, labor unions in the public sector are more powerful because they receive compensation from the state. State programs do not compete fairly against private programs. As a result, 36.2% of public employees are unionized[1]. The state can obtain funds from tax payers, offer their services for ‘free', and create laws that either disallow or make it difficult for private companies to enter the market. Private companies can only make a profit If consumers are willing to pay for the product, while the public sector can extract money through force. If one does not want a ‘public good', then he or she has to pay for it anyways or else be thrown in jail. Therefore, since the public sector does not need to worry about bankruptcy and acquiring funds as much as the private sector, labor unions can increase the price of their labor and block reform that will improve education. Teacher unions also have incredible political and social power. If a teacher union decides to go on strike then news media and parents will be in a frenzy. Parents will be upset that their child is not getting an education and it will obtain press coverage. Politicians will be blamed, and possibly lose reelection over the ordeal. Therefore, teacher unions can use strikes far more effectively more than almost any other organization. In terms of political power, teacher unions greatly influence public opinion. For example, many people believe the myth that teachers are overpaid, which I will explain later. Parents, teachers, and celebrities were able to create a huge rallies in Washington DC and Wisconsin to support them[2]. Teacher unions use their fees to pay for politician's campaign fees and lobbying. The National Educational Association has spent over 12 million dollars in Washington from 2008-2010.[3] ""Coincidentally"" , the NEA spent over twice as much money they do normally during the same time period that school choice movement became big and three well made documentary videos advocating school choice and reform. Even liberal president, Franklin D. Roosevelt, known for dramatically increasing the size of the public sector stated: ""The process of collective bargaining, as usually understood, cannot be transplanted into the public service,"" [4] It is a myth that most teachers are underpaid. As John Stossel segment shows, teachers are paid more than the average wage in America. They also enjoy many perks such as pension plans, job security, and summers off. Hour per hour, teachers make more than psychologist, chemists, and physical therapists. People choose a job based on a number of reasons. However, people are free to choice a job that he or she finds most satisfying or pays well. Nobody is forced to work an ‘underpaid' job. If teachers were indeed ‘underpaid' we would expect to see a shortage of teachers and people would not apply to be a teacher. However, If anything there is a surplus of qualified teachers. In some cities, there is a 12:1 ratio between applications and open jobs [5]. These statistics are from BEFORE the great recession. This surplus is bad since potential teachers spend hundreds of thousands of dollars to attain a degree in education, only to find that there are no jobs in education. It should also be noted that it is nearly impossible to fire a bad teacher. While in most occupations, If one is bad in one's profession or behaves poorly, he or she is fired. However, due to tenure, the legal fees, amount of steps and length of time it takes to fire a tenured teacher makes the process impossible. Accordingly, approximately only 1 in 1000 of teachers are fired while most other occupations have a much higher firing or turnover rate. For example 1 in every 57 doctors will lose their medical license[6]. Teacher unions have also successful been blocking educational reforms that would improve America's education. For example, school vouchers have been proven to improve children's reading, math and writing comprehensibility however teacher unions are taking measures to make sure these reforms do not occur[7]. Likewise, teacher unions also blocking reforms to use merit-pay. For example, in Washington DC, the school chancellor offered a plan in which teachers could give up tenure-pay for the opportunity to potential earn as much as $144,000 based on merit per year. The union would not even allow the issue to come to a vote.[6] With improvements in technology and access to capital, almost all goods and services have improved since 1970. Modern cars, phones, televisions, and computers have all improved. Many of these products are even cheaper than they were 40 years ago. However, education has become more expensive and test scores have not improved at all[8]. It is because the collective bargaining power is so strong that America has not seen any improvements in education. Removing collective bargaining power would improve schools, and reduce cost on education that taxpayers have to pay through coercion. http://tinyurl.com...[1] http://www.youtube.com...[2] http://tinyurl.com...[3] http://www.youtube.com...[4] http://tinyurl.com...[5] http://tinyurl.com...[6] http://tinyurl.com...[7] http://tinyurl.com...["	PRO	15
15	S1b03f390-A2f800ca1	The collective bargaining rights of teachers should be removed	"I thank Dark for his argument, and will now attempt to chip away at his opening. ""I will use the moral framework of utilitarianism."" I would argue that utilitarianism is self-contradictory, and immoral. It purports to protect the well being of society but, in practice, it forces the morality of some to govern all. Society includes all of us, but who benefits from allowing my opponent's morals and values to rule our country?? Only my opponent, and those with a similar ideology benefit. To allow a few to decide what is best for all, based on their own values, while ignoring the values of others seems immoral. How can this be what's ""best for society""?? I would be remiss if I didn't admit that utilitarianism, to a degree, is the basis of our legal system, but there's another principle at play, within that system, that was much more prevalent on the minds of our founding fathers. My opponent has the right to protest the status quo and push for change, because of that principle. It's because of that principle that I argue that teachers should keep their right to unionize, and have collective bargaining. That principle was the guiding ideology, as the framers of our constitution hashed out the final language. That principle is ""Individual Rights"". The rights of an individual, in a free society, to make decisions for themselves is the very reason that our founding fathers knowingly, and intentionally, tried to limit the power and size, of the government(1). Our constitution tries to protect individuals from the ""tyranny of the majority"", but if not kept in check, that tyranny is exactly what utilitarianism brings to the table. Another problem with the use of utilitarianism is the fact that my opponent wants to use it as grounds for fighting against unions, in general, but his ideology demands an ""all or none"" approach. It doesn't leave enough flexibility to come to some common ground, a way in which many of the ends he seeks can be realized, while still respecting the rights of workers to make their own decisions. It simply assumes that there can be no middle ground, and refuses to allow it. That is the problem with the ideological hard-liners on both the left, and right. This ""my way or the highway"" approach to governing should be rejected by all of us because it is usually ineffective, polarizing, and unnecessarily unfair to it's victims. There IS a sensible middle ground on this union issue, and when there IS a middle ground, utilitarianism need not be invoked. That is what's best for society. My opponent concedes that teachers will be harmed, but claims that collective bargaining has little value for teachers, and removing it is ""best for society"". My wife is an English/Literature teacher, she has two Master's degrees and a Bachelor's in Adult Ed. She has taught at every level, including a prison education program. Over her 23 year career, she has worked both union and non-union jobs. Although non-union now, she realizes the importance of collective bargaining rights, and the positives those rights have for ALL teachers, not just union. Unions strive to raise the standard of living for workers, and in doing so they also indirectly effect non-union workers in a positive way. The fear that their employees will unionize inspires employers to make changes that are beneficial to the employees, who are the backbone of their organization. This raises the standard of living, and brings dignity and financial stability to employees, who are otherwise at the mercy of their employers. Those on the far right, who I usually side with, seek to remove this positive force. That puts employees back at the mercy of employers. If the employer wants a new yacht, what's to stop him from simply cutting pay, increasing his profit margin, thereby justifying a huge raise or bonus for himself?? Removing unions, and bargaining rights, effectively lowers the standard of living for both union, and non-union employees. How is that best for society?? A big part of my opponent's argument is based on him wanting education to be privatized, instead he is ""coerced"" into having to pay taxes to help pay for education. That seems selfish to me. People were coerced into paying taxes for his education, but now it's time to return the favor and he doesn't like it. That illustrates the nature of humans to be greedy, and that's the reason that teachers don't want such a vital service, education, turned over into the hands of corporations who's main goal is financial benefit. Teachers unions aren't the only ones not wanting that. My opponent has a right to fight for that change, if he wishes, but is it fair for him to take away the rights of others who oppose him, so that his ends become easier to attain?? I say no, but that's exactly what my opponent advocates. Do we need education reform?? Do we need to make the system more financially efficient?? Absolutely, on both counts, but a common sense way of accomplishing that can be found without throwing the baby out with the bathwater. That answer begins with identifying the real problems rather than using the teachers as pawns for political gain. Those on the anti-union side have created a witch hunt against ""bad teachers"". What about the nearly four million other teachers, who serve the public well as educators for our kids?? They watch the coverage of bad teachers, and are more ashamed than the rest of us, yet they go to school the next day and work hard, focusing on what they got into education for, the kids. The problem with my opponents' argument against tenure, in this debate, is that tenure and dismissal proceedings are a matter of state law, not the subject of collective bargaining. Lawmakers made firing teachers, and the process, intentionally slow and cumbersome to discourage firings for personal and political reasons. The union's only role in tenure, is that it's required by law to represent it's members during the process. Perhaps the ""rubber room"" video should be shown to my opponents state lawmakers instead of being used to prejudice the public against unions. Here is a quote from the page linked below(2). ""Each state provides laws governing education agencies, hiring and termination of teachers, tenure of teachers, and similar laws. Subjectivity and cronyism are reasons that unions oppose the merit pay system. Another reason is, as I mentioned in my opening, teachers are at the mercy of the quality of their students. They can, and do, reach many difficult kids, but they are not miracle workers. I ask you, how would you feel if your pay was decided by how well your co-workers did?? On the pay issue, perhaps my opponent needs to speak to teachers, instead of John Stossel. You can't figure an hour-by-hour comparison unless you factor in ALL the hours that teachers put in. He bases his figures on the school day, but doesn't factor in all the hours at home and weekends, grading papers, preparing lesson plans, private tutoring, on the phone with parents trying to find a way to reach a difficult student, spending 800-1000 dollars out-of-pocket for supplies for kids that can't afford them, etc. They usually spend 1-2 weeks after the school year in meetings, packing their rooms, etc., then 1-2 weeks before the start of the year in meetings, and unpacking, prep, etc. This is one of the problems with people who know so little being given such a big voice over people who are actually trained, and have years of experience doing. They don't show the public the whole story, just their own spin. I contest the other parts of his argument, but am out of space so I'll deal with them in round 3. 1. http://www.usconstitution.net... 2. http://www.enotes.com..."	CON	16
16	S591127c0-Aff783fd6	Tenured teachers don't always deserve protection from unions	"Unions sometimes protect teachers that shouldn't be protected. Some teachers are stuck in a rut, ""babysitting"" until retirement, or getting complaints and being shuffled from school to school. They can't be fired and so they continue to take up space that could be used for younger/newer teachers with incredible ideas and innovative lessons."	PRO	17
17	S51530f3f-A4715d76f	Should Tenures Be Taken Away	"Thank you Pro. I have to do this round a little bit different as Pro did not respond to any of my arguments. Instead, he used multiple fallacies throughout the debate. Namely, Ad Hominem(CR1), Ad hominem Tu Quoque(CR2), Appeal to Ridicule(CR1), Begging the Question(CR3), Post Hoc(round 3), and Red Herring(round 3). None of my contentions were refuted by Pro, therefore, I should win the debate. C1: Tenures prevent teachers from being arbitrarily fired, which allows academic freedom. If there was no tenures they could be fired for teaching about issues contrary to what the administration believes. My opponent tried to make it disappear by saying, ""it has nothing to do with tenures."" C2: Tenures help draw and retain better teachers. It does this by having great job security, which rivals all other careers. If it was not for tenures, we would have worse teachers due to no job security. Again my opponent never did respond. My opponent also danced around my rebuttals. R1: My opponent attempts to assert that new innovative teachers will not be able to get a position. I then proceed to crush that argument in the next two rounds. The two things I prove are that teachers are needed and tenures actually foster an environment of innovation. R2: He makes an assertion that tenures will do great damage to the economy. However, I disprove that by showing teachers will make more. Like any industry, when people can be fired who make more they will be. That is why tenures help prevent seasoned teachers from being fired over salary. He decides to completely drop the argument after that. R3: Then he makes the claim that if a teacher is tenured they can not be fired. Which is completely false and a huge misconception. I prove that by providing links. Again, he chooses not to respond. 1. He never responded to my contentions. 2. His contentions were completely defeated by my rebuttals. 3. Drops all arguments in round 4 4. He committed multiple fallacies, especially in round 4."	CON	18
18	S1b03f390-A58664676	The collective bargaining rights of teachers should be removed	Introduction: I thank my opponent for his response. In my opening argument I explained that teacher unions have strong political power and the ability to fire a teacher is quite difficultbdue to teacher unions. He has not refuted these claims. It would also be unfair to refute them in Round 3, since this is the last round I will defend my thesis. However he attacks the moral framework of utilitarinism (w/out providing an alternative framework), believes unions have value, and does not believe teacher unions are to blame for education reform. I refute this. Utilitarianism: CON makes many incorrect assumptions about utilitarianism. Utilitarianism is simply maximization of happiness. It is not an arbitrary morality system such as ‘prostitution is wrong’. It does not benefit just the few, but seeks to bring happiness to many. CON believes that “it forces the morality of some to govern all” No. Utilitarianism can be obtained by volunteer transactions. Let’s say I have 100 sandwiches and you have 100 water bottles. With the initial distribution of goods, I will die of thirst and you will die of hunger. However, if we trade so that the final distribution is that we both have 50 sandwiches and 50 water bottles, we are both better off, a utilitarian arrangement is made, and there is no need of centralized planners. In fact economists have a term for this. Pareto efficiency, all persons are made better without anyone else worse off. There is also a term known as Kaldor-Hicks efficiency in which a policy or new technology might benefit some and harm others; however the wealth created from the policy or technology is so immense that the wealth can in theory compensate those harmed. My policy is mathematically proven to be Kaldor-Hicks efficient. I will not go into the mathematical technicality of it since it will be too long to explain. The proof is shown under efficiency and monopolies in this article[1]. I will give a more intuitive example. A teacher union is basically a monopoly on the supply of a labor. One can obvious see why this is a problem, If for example, all the telecommunication companies decide to form a monopoly, the price of cell phones would skyrocket and would be taking wealth away from consumers. The same applies to unions. Also, teacher unions are rent-seekers, obtaining perks without creating actual value. They are able to do this because taxpayer money is obtained not via voluntary action but by force. Getting something for nothing is obviously not a Kaldor-Hicks improvement and a misallocation of resources. CON other contention is that utilitarianism creates ‘tyranny of the majority’. No, A ‘tyranny of the majority’ occurs if a majority creates a policy that benefits the majority a little, but harms the majority quite a bit. For example, a policy that allows discrimination is indeed a ‘tyranny of the majority’ yet not utilitarianism. Hence why limited government is ideal and we are given certain inalienable rights such as life, liberty, and property. Ironically, CON agrees that limited government is good, yet collective bargaining in the state sector expands government. Furthermore, collective bargaining is not recognizes as an individual right, since collective bargaining would not exist without government intervention. People are forced to pay dues in unions. Furthermore, employers cannot fire an employee for joining a union or cannot design a contract that states an employee cannot join a union, even if voluntarily. This goes against individual liberty. CON accuses me of using an ‘all or nothing’ approach. What does that even mean? Why should there be a middle ground? That’s like me arguing that ‘Blacks should not be slaves’, and accusing me of taking an all-or-nothing approach. Or does he mean we should increase welfare of the nation but only increase it by a little bit? Why not maximize it? He is committing the argument to moderation fallacy [2] The Value of Unions: CON uses anecdotal evidence about his wife, which should be discarded since it is bias and can be faked. CON makes a fallacy that an employer can simply cut back wages to increase profit margins and lower the standard of living for an employee without unions. This is false. To see why, let’s give an example. Let’s say there are two companies, A and B. Company A can hire employees less than their productivity and make a bunch of profits. However, Company B can also hire employees at a higher wage than Company A, still making a bunch of profits, and employees flock to Company B instead of A. This process continues until both companies hire employees at the level of their productivity. With this process, Supply and demand determines the salary of labor. The real salary of labor can only increase if supply of labor decreases or demand of labor increases. Labor unions can achieve this by restricting the amount of workers or using political power to increase demand for their product. Employers cannot simply lower wages at whim, since labor can find other areas of work or even start their own companies. Many labor contracts even disallow the employer from lower wages. If my opponent is still not convinced, I can show empirical evidence that labor unions do not increase standard of livings. The Gilded Age is known as the time in which America has the greatest amount of economic development, in which real wages dramatically increased.[3] Wages and wealth in America was greater than wages in Europe, even though Europe was much more unionized. This was possible because trade unions do not grow the economy. Only through investment in capital and technology can labor become more productive, and thus increase standard of living. Labor unions are only successful through strategies that are not pareto optimal, as explained earlier. Educational Reform: CON strawmans me, stating that I am selfish for not wanting to pay for education. This is incorrect, I see the value of “free” education. However, why should one pay more for education without improvements in it? CON and I both want educational reform. However, as I demonstrated, teacher unions block these reforms. The best way to create reform is to get rid of the source blocking it, teacher unions. My opponent wants to blame lawmakers, however this is like blaming an employer for increasing the salary of union workers, when the employer did everything in their power to stop it. Sure, the lawmakers and employers were the ones that made the final decisions, yet it is not as if the union had no play. I have shown how teacher unions have used political power to their advantage that my opponent has not refuted. CON says that the process of firing teacher is slow due to political reasons however the political reasons are because of teacher unions.[4] Next, CON states that merit pay is too subjective. Perhaps, there is some subjectivism, however is that better than a system that awards seniority over merit? This is almost as absurd as stating that students should not be graded because it is too subjective. Many of the problems of merit pay can be tweaked, for example judging student performance before and after the school year. Teacher Pay: The information about teacher pay comes from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, not John Stossel. If teacher pay is too low, why was there a surplus of teacher applicants during an economic boom? Most professions have to work extended hours, go to meetings, and bring their work home just like teachers. Teachers can also come up with solutions to work more efficiently and avoid working at home such as showing educational films in class, giving work in class, sharing lesson plans and exam formats between other teachers and other sources. Exams that are multiple choices are easily graded. The amount of hours a teacher works outside of the school hours is up to how much effort the teacher wants to put into teaching. http://tinyurl.com... [1] http://tinyurl.com... [2] http://tinyurl.com... [3] http://tinyurl.com...	PRO	19
19	S51530f3f-Ae32a4a1b	Should Tenures Be Taken Away	"Prevent Arbitrary Firings: If teachers did not receive tenure they could be fired for any reason. In other words, they would be limited in doing their job for fear of being fired. This promotes ineffective teachers for fear of being fired. That is something you do not want from teachers or students won't learn as much. (1) http://www.usatoday.com... (2) http://en.wikipedia.org... Tenures Retain the Best Teachers: The financial and career safety tenure provides, persuades better qualified candidates to be teachers. Many other careers offer higher pay, but very few offer as much security as tenures. Furthermore, to remove tenures would only drive more great teachers away from the profession. Which would then weaken our educational system even more. (1) http://lilt.ilstu.edu... Rebuttals: Tenure does not limit possibilities: My opponent states that tenures prevent new teachers from a teaching position. That is completely false with teachers being one of the most needed positions. There is even a grant the government has out to draw more teachers. (1) http://teaching.monster.com... (2) https://teach-ats.ed.gov... Tenure does not pull down our economy: Tenure boosts the economy by allowing teachers to be paid more. In addition, every single teacher, if they stay long enough, will get tenure. Tenure in no way restricts teachers from making more. (1) http://www.lasvegassun.com... Teacher tenure does not allow an abuse of position: ""It is a myth that teacher tenure provides a guarantee of lifetime employment, ensuring notice and providing a hearing for generally accepted reasons for termination, such as incompetence, insubordination, and immorality."" (1) http://voices.washingtonpost.com..."	CON	20
20	S51530f3f-Ac5b10bae	Should Tenures Be Taken Away	"I'd like to thank my opponent for having this debate with me. First off, I'd like to state my rebuttals to his arguments: R1: The fallicious logic connects being ""arbitrarily fired"" to having tenures. First, people don't get randomly fired unless for economic reasons. Even so, this would mean firing those without tenures which: - Supports my 1st point that new teacher possibilities are eliminated - Shows how unfair tenures are to new teachers R2: As a link to R1 the moral of the argument is flawed. Based on Con's work-for-treat idea, teachers would be encouraged to fight for their positions through pulling down others from getting a job. Also, he states that removal of tenures would drive away ""great teachers."" He forgets that without tenures, the best teachers with new and innovative ideas continue to teach and are not ""arbitrarily fired"" without a definite reason. I would like to highlight are the flaws in my opponent's rebuttals to my points. They orginate from a lack of understanding of American economic stand and society markets. These are elaborated in the following: CR1: Con's entire argument in invalid. His sources are out-of-date and range from 2007-08 when there were many teachers needed. In 2011 to present, the situation is much different with a dearth of teaching positions. http://tinyurl.com... [1] CR2: Tenures have nothing to do with teachers getting paid more. I stress Con to reflect upon the definition of tenure which is longer stay, but no implication of more pay. http://tinyurl.com... [2] CR3: Con supports my 3rd point. Indeed tenures do not protect those from illegal acts. However, tenures do provide people with undesired personal values (such as smoking outside of campus--see my support 3) to continue to influence many children on a daily basis. http://tinyurl.com... [3] Con's points and sources are invalidated and rebuttals are refuted. Once again, I'd like to thank Con and viewers for spending their time and energy for this debate."	PRO	21
21	S51530f3f-Ad9a140f	Should Tenures Be Taken Away	"I am for the removal of tenures for teachers. There are 3 reasons that justify my position: 1. Tenure Possibilities Tenures allow for teachers to be guaranteed a lifetime teaching position according to the definition of tenure in the structure of this debate. By having this set out, many new teachers are prevented from teaching positions. Many include: - New people with new techniques for students - Fresh graduates with an eager heart to teach - People with new knowledge of a particular subject By barring these people from jobs, we stunt the growth of a new generation of Americans that provide our future with updated knowledge, ideas, and techniques. 2. Economic View From an economic viewpoint, tenures pull down our economy. Through keeping old teachers in positions, tenures make money flow only towards older generations of teachers. Thus, there is an imbalance of currency distribution which will: - New generations of teachers will struggle to earn a living - Contribute to the slowdown of money flow and economic downturn - Disable young people from working and benefiting the US while giving older people the majority of money -- an imbalance 3. Abuse of Teaching Positions Through allowing teachers fulfilling a number of years to have permanent jobs, tenures open the gateway for abuse of teaching positions. In 1999 six professors sued the state for banning them from watching porn on state computers. Tenures allow abuse of positions for people such as: - Those with corrupted moral standards - Teachers who might harm children indirectly through their depravity - Teachers not conductive to learning environment Note that this ""corruption"" is not limited to being illegal in the sense that an arrest is at issue but also for such things that don't infringe on the law but still might be harmful for student values such as smoking outside of the school. Sources: http://tinyurl.com... http://tinyurl.com... http://tinyurl.com... http://tinyurl.com... http://tinyurl.com..."	PRO	22
22	S51530f3f-A6ac2dcba	Should Tenures Be Taken Away	"Thank you for the debate, however, all your points were refuted. The main goal of teachers is to educate students. That is why my two arguments focus on how having tenures is best for the students. CR1: In an academic environment people have differing views on touchy subjects. Tenures, thus, protect teachers from being fired for teaching contrary to what administrators want, they provide academic freedom. Prior to tenures teachers were fired for differing views and any reason administrators wanted. 1)http://www.mlive.com... CR2: My opponent never refuted my round one argument, ""The financial and career safety tenure provides, persuades better qualified candidates to be teachers."" 1)http://www.dukechronicle.com... R1: My opponent has failed to provide proof how tenures dive out innovation. On the contrary, it provides the freedom to come up with new styles of teaching. Since they don't have to worry about being fired they are free to experiment. 1)http://www.joebaugher.com... R2: I also urge my opponent to reflect on tenures more, not just the surface level definition. What happens if teachers are not protected by tenures? They will be fired as soon as they start making more money. You can see that happens in every field of work. Thus, tenures do help teachers make more money. 1)http://www.huffingtonpost.com... R3: My opponent proposed in round one that tenures make teachers unfireable. I then completely refuted that point by providing a source. He then tries to cover up his defeated argument by saying they can not be fired for smoking. I ask, can any employee anywhere be fired for smoking? 1)http://blog.timesunion.com... The proof is in the pudding, tenures allow teachers to provide a better education for students."	CON	23
23	Sc065954f-Ae72bc9c6	There should not be a teacher tenure.	"Thank you for accepting my debate (This round for me is mostly going to be evidence to set a base for my argument). Reason 1 - Teacher tenure creates complacency because teachers know they are unlikely to lose their jobs: If teachers know that they reached the period where they get special defence from most accusations - it would send the message to them that they can then do whatever they want to do in the classroom and really slack with their teaching duties. Reason 2 - Tenure makes it difficult to remove under-performing teachers because the process involves months of legal wrangling by the principal, the school board, the union, and the courts: Most schools stop trying to fire a certain teacher because the proccess is just too difficult. "" A June 1, 2009 study by the New Teacher Project found that 81% of school administrators knew a poorly performing tenured teacher at their school; however, 86% of administrators said they do not always pursue dismissal of teachers because of the costly and time consuming process. It can take up to 335 days to remove a tenured teacher in Michigan before the courts get involved."" (http://teachertenure.procon.org...) (Patrick McGuinn, ""Ringing the Bell for K-12 Teacher Tenure Reform,"" www.americanprogress.org). This quote means that 86 OUT OF 100 SCHOOL ADMINISTRATORS WANT A TEACHER TO BE FIRED - but will not do so because the proccess is to draining. But what does that leave our learning and growing generation with? Many teachers who do not care, teach well, or put effort in their work? That is certaintly what this is going to result into if we do not abolish it quickly. Also check out this statistic of who is in favor (people in general) ""An Apr.-May 2011 survey of 2,600 Americans found that 49% oppose teacher tenure while 20% support it. Among teachers, 53% support tenure while 32% oppose it. According to a Sep. 2010 report by the Thomas B. Fordham Institute, 86% of education professors favor ""making it easier to terminate unmotivated or incompetent teachers - even if they are tenured.” Of course you cannot expect most teachers to be against it sinse that it their profession and it effects them - but for bystanders with accurate and unbiased opinions, look how many people are against it. Also, ""56% of school board presidents disagreed with the statement that teacher tenure ensures academic freedom."" (M.J. Stephey, ""A Brief History of Tenure,"" www.time.com). Reason 3 - Most people are against teature tenure: ""In an Oct. 1, 2006 survey, 91% of school board presidents either agreed or strongly agreed that tenure impedes the dismissal of under-performing teachers. 60% also believed that tenure does not promote fair evaluations."" (http://teachertenure.procon.org...) This means that most teachers OF SUCH A LARGE PERCENTAGE are not in favor of the teacher tenure. Reason 4 - Teacher tenure does nothing to promote the education of children: ""Former DC Schools Chancellor Michelle Rhee said in 2008, ""Tenure is the holy grail of teacher unions, but it has no educational value for kids; it only benefits adults.”(""Rhee-Forming D.C. Schools,"" www.wsj.com). This piece of evidence means that the only people actually benefiting from this tenure are the teachers who are employed - not any students. Isint education suppost to be focused on the younger generation and their best interest? Since when did school become all about the teachers - this tenure undermines what it means to actually be a teacher. If anything, it is only a BAD THING for students - and why would we keep something in our school systems that MAKES THE GENERATIONS' LEARNING LESS VALUEABLE? It does not make any sense. Reason 5 - Tenure at the K-12 level is not earned, but given to nearly everyone: ""To receive tenure at the university level, professors must show contributions to their fields by publishing research. At the K-12 level, teachers only need to ""stick around” for a short period of time to receive tenure. A June 1, 2009 study by the New Teacher Project found that less than 1% of evaluated teachers were rated unsatisfactory."" (Marcus A. Winters, ""Challenging Tenure in D.C.,"" www.manhattan-institute.org). This statistic is absolutely upsetting and degrating. Basically, this quote is explaning how 99% of teachers have free protection handed to them if they just stay in that profession for a certain amount of time. What if that teacher was already slacking in many areas? Now we are going to award them for poor effort and teaching abilities? It is not fair to the students involved with these teachers and it is not fair that they do not actually have to WORK to recieve a benefit of protection unlike most other professions that require some form of acomplishment to recieve that/those benefits in question. Because ""with most states granting tenure after three years, teachers have not had the opportunity to ""show their worth, or their ineptitude."" (Rose Garrett, ""What Is Teacher Tenure?,"" www.education.com), (http://teachertenure.procon.org...). Reason 6 - Tenure makes it costly for schools to remove a teacher with poor performance or who is guilty of wrongdoing: ""It costs an average of $250,000 to fire a teacher in New York City. New York spent an estimated $30 million a year paying tenured teachers accused of incompetence and wrongdoing to report to reassignment centers (sometimes called ""rubber rooms”) where they were paid to sit idly.Those rooms were shut down on June 28, 2010."" (""Rhee-Forming D.C. Schools,"" www.wsj.com), (Steven Brill, ""The Rubber Room,"" New Yorker). This is just sad, now it even costs the school boards money for teachers not doing their job? Should'nt that be the opposite? Reason 7 - Tenure is not needed to recruit teachers: ""Sacramento Charter High School, which does not offer tenure, had 900 teachers apply for 80 job openings."" (Nanette Asimov, ""Teacher Job Security Fuels Prop. 74 Battle,"" San Francisco Chronicle). This quote further proves why tenure is pretty much useless and unfair because teachers DO NOT NEED TENURE to continue their job as a teacher at their shchool, past school, future school, or school they are applying for. Reason 8 - With job protections granted through court rulings, collective bargaining, and state and federal laws, teachers today no longer need tenure to protect them from dismissal: ""For this reason, few other professions offer tenure because employees are adequately protected with existing laws."" (Tenure Reforms and NJSBA Policy: Report of the NJSBA Tenure Task Force,"" New Jersey School Boards Association website, www.njsba.org), (Scott McLeod, JD, PhD, ""Does Teacher Tenure Have a Future?,"" www.dangerouslyirrelevant.org). This is the most important fact out of all these because it shows how the WHOLE REASON teacher tenure is here in the first place is NOT NEEDED not have the protections that teachers have without tenure. The teacher tenure is not benefitial for anyone except teachers - they get unfair advantages in MANY ways, some I have just listed. Why should we let this continue if unnessisary? Citations: http://teachertenure.procon.org... http://teachertenure.procon.org... http://teachertenure.procon.org... Wanda Marie Thibodeaux, ""Pro & Cons of Teacher Tenure,"" www.ehow.com Patrick McGuinn, ""Ringing the Bell for K-12 Teacher Tenure Reform,"" www.americanprogress.org http://teachertenure.procon.org... ""Rhee-Forming D.C. Schools,"" www.wsj.com Marcus A. Winters, ""Challenging Tenure in D.C.,"" www.manhattan-institute.org M.J. Stephey, ""A Brief History of Tenure,"" www.time.com Rose Garrett, ""What Is Teacher Tenure?,"" www.education.com http://teachertenure.procon.org... ""Rhee-Forming D.C. Schools,"" www.wsj.com Steven Brill, ""The Rubber Room,"" New Yorker Tenure Reforms and NJSBA Policy: Report of the NJSBA Tenure Task Force,"" New Jersey School Boards Association website, www.njsba.org Scott McLeod, JD, PhD, ""Does Teacher Tenure Have a Future?,"" www.dangerouslyirrelevant.org Nanette Asimov, ""Teacher Job Security Fuels Prop. 74 Battle,"" San Francisco Chronicle"	PRO	24
24	Sc065954f-A39b0539e	There should not be a teacher tenure.	Thank you sara_ann_dee for her argument. In this debate, I will argue that ‘there should be a teacher tenure.’ Whether this tenure is reformed, or reduced to only applicable to some teachers, does not matter as long as I am able to prove that ‘teacher tenure’ should, in some form, exist. Voters should vote for me if I am able to do this. Although rebuttals are reserved for the next round, I urge that voters should not blindly accept my opponent's point as I have already discovered some problems in them. First I will define the word ‘tenure’. Tenure: tenure is a form of job security for teachers, given after a probationary period. Please note that: Tenure doesn’t guarantee lifetime employment. It simply protects teachers from being dismissed without just cause. Teachers with tenure are entitled to a hearing in which the school district must prove that the teacher failed a specific standard that’s required of the teacher. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Teaching is a very important profession. Being a teacher, you pass knowledge on to the next generation and if you also do research, you make new discoveries and question the way things are; in other words, challenge the status quo. Teacher tenure ensures that teachers can perform these two tasks by protecting their academic freedom. Moreover, teacher tenure raises the standard of education to a higher level by attracting more capable people to enter this field and allowing teachers to focus on teaching than not being fired. In short, tenure makes sure that the functions of such an important profession can be carried out without any hindrance, that such an important job is done at a high standard, in the hands of gifted people. 1. Teacher tenure protects the academic freedom of teachers. Academic freedom is of paramount importance. Academic freedom prevents any political, intellectual, or religious orthodoxy from hampering the discovery of knowledge and the study and criticism of intellectual or cultural traditions. Without the assurance of academic freedom, many teachers may be discouraged from taking novel or unpopular positions. Important ideas might not be advanced and intellectual debate and advancement would suffer. Protecting the academic freedom of teachers may sound like something that is only beneficial to teachers. However this is not true. With teacher tenure, teachers’ academic freedom of teaching controversial subjects is also protected. This is beneficial to students because they will be exposed to a wider range of views and topics and they will acquire more knowledge. But more importantly, they will also develop critical thinking skills and instead of blindly accepting what others say about it, they can question the legitimacy of them on their own. Another example that demonstrates the importance of protecting academic freedom is Galileo and his support for the Copernican Theory. [1] In this case, there was a violation against Galileo’s academic freedom to support Copernican theory, a very important theory in astronomy, which has a profound impact on mankind. If this violation had been successful, it could have barred this theory reaching other people; consequently, we may never have gained the knowledge that Earth in fact orbits the Sun; and without this knowledge, NASA would never have been able to send a probe on a 7.5 billion km journey to Pluto and we would never have received pictures of such a beautiful place. 2. Teacher tenure is necessary to provide a high standard of education to students. Tenured teachers cannot be dismissed without a just cause as I have mentioned at the very beginning of my argument. Therefore it allows teachers to focus on their job and act in the best interest of students (e.g. failing a student with powerful parents when it is necessary so that he realizes he has to improve) instead of having to worry about political correctness and keeping their job. This ensures that the education that we give to students is of the highest standard. Secondly, according to [2], the admission requirements for future applicants to teacher colleges will increase in the next few years. It is shown on the National Education Association website that teachers make less than other professions receiving similar training and responsibilities. [3] The National Center for Education Statistics estimates that public schools will need more than 440,000 new elementary and secondary teachers by the end of the decade to replace retiring baby boomers. [4] These sources show that more people, and more talented ones with higher academic achievements are needed as teachers, an occupation that is not that well paid. Teacher tenure solves this problem by attracting talented people to become teachers by giving teachers security and stability to their jobs. This is extremely important because only by having good teachers and having enough of them can we provide education of a high standard to students. Brief summary of my arguments 1. Tenure protects academic freedom, allowing teachers to perform research freely and teach controversial subjects. 2. Tenure attracts more gifted people to enter this profession and allows them to focus on teaching, thus raising the standard of education to a high level. Again, I have not dropped my opponent's points. I will simply address them in the next round in accordance to the rules of this debate. Links: [1] https://en.wikipedia.org... [2] http://www.huffingtonpost.com... [3] http://www.nea.org... [4] http://blogs.edweek.org... [5] http://www.joebaugher.com...	CON	25
25	Sc065954f-A24a16870	There should not be a teacher tenure.	"Reason 2 - Tenure makes it difficult to remove under-performing teachers because the process involves months of legal wrangling by the principal, the school board, the union, and the courts: Most schools stop trying to fire a certain teacher because the proccess is just too difficult. "" A June 1, 2009 study by the New Teacher Project found that 81% of school administrators knew a poorly performing tenured teacher at their school; however, 86% of administrators said they do not always pursue dismissal of teachers because of the costly and time consuming process. It can take up to 335 days to remove a tenured teacher in Michigan before the courts get involved."" (http://teachertenure.procon.org......) (Patrick McGuinn, ""Ringing the Bell for K-12 Teacher Tenure Reform,"" www.americanprogress.org). This quote means that 86 OUT OF 100 SCHOOL ADMINISTRATORS WANT A TEACHER TO BE FIRED - but will not do so because the proccess is to draining. But what does that leave our learning and growing generation with? Many teachers who do not care, teach well, or put effort in their work? That is certaintly what this is going to result into if we do not abolish it quickly. Also check out this statistic of who is in favor (people in general) ""An Apr.-May 2011 survey of 2,600 Americans found that 49% oppose teacher tenure while 20% support it. Among teachers, 53% support tenure while 32% oppose it. According to a Sep. 2010 report by the Thomas B. Fordham Institute, 86% of education professors favor ""making it easier to terminate unmotivated or incompetent teachers - even if they are tenured.” Of course you cannot expect most teachers to be against it sinse that it their profession and it effects them - but for bystanders with accurate and unbiased opinions, look how many people are against it. Also, ""56% of school board presidents disagreed with the statement that teacher tenure ensures academic freedom."" (M.J. Stephey, ""A Brief History of Tenure,"" www.time.com). Reason 3 - Most people are against teature tenure: ""In an Oct. 1, 2006 survey, 91% of school board presidents either agreed or strongly agreed that tenure impedes the dismissal of under-performing teachers. 60% also believed that tenure does not promote fair evaluations."" (http://teachertenure.procon.org......) This means that most teachers OF SUCH A LARGE PERCENTAGE are not in favor of the teacher tenure. Reason 4 - Teacher tenure does nothing to promote the education of children: ""Former DC Schools Chancellor Michelle Rhee said in 2008, ""Tenure is the holy grail of teacher unions, but it has no educational value for kids; it only benefits adults.”(""Rhee-Forming D.C. Schools,"" www.wsj.com). This piece of evidence means that the only people actually benefiting from this tenure are the teachers who are employed - not any students. Isint education suppost to be focused on the younger generation and their best interest? Since when did school become all about the teachers - this tenure undermines what it means to actually be a teacher. If anything, it is only a BAD THING for students - and why would we keep something in our school systems that MAKES THE GENERATIONS' LEARNING LESS VALUEABLE? It does not make any sense. Reason 5 - Tenure at the K-12 level is not earned, but given to nearly everyone: ""To receive tenure at the university level, professors must show contributions to their fields by publishing research. At the K-12 level, teachers only need to ""stick around” for a short period of time to receive tenure. A June 1, 2009 study by the New Teacher Project found that less than 1% of evaluated teachers were rated unsatisfactory."" (Marcus A. Winters, ""Challenging Tenure in D.C.,"" www.manhattan-institute.org). This statistic is absolutely upsetting and degrating. Basically, this quote is explaning how 99% of teachers have free protection handed to them if they just stay in that profession for a certain amount of time. What if that teacher was already slacking in many areas? Now we are going to award them for poor effort and teaching abilities? It is not fair to the students involved with these teachers and it is not fair that they do not actually have to WORK to recieve a benefit of protection unlike most other professions that require some form of acomplishment to recieve that/those benefits in question. Because ""with most states granting tenure after three years, teachers have not had the opportunity to ""show their worth, or their ineptitude."" (Rose Garrett, ""What Is Teacher Tenure?,"" www.education.com), (http://teachertenure.procon.org......). Reason 6 - Tenure makes it costly for schools to remove a teacher with poor performance or who is guilty of wrongdoing: ""It costs an average of $250,000 to fire a teacher in New York City. New York spent an estimated $30 million a year paying tenured teachers accused of incompetence and wrongdoing to report to reassignment centers (sometimes called ""rubber rooms”) where they were paid to sit idly.Those rooms were shut down on June 28, 2010."" (""Rhee-Forming D.C. Schools,"" www.wsj.com), (Steven Brill, ""The Rubber Room,"" New Yorker). This is just sad, now it even costs the school boards money for teachers not doing their job? Should'nt that be the opposite? Reason 7 - Tenure is not needed to recruit teachers: ""Sacramento Charter High School, which does not offer tenure, had 900 teachers apply for 80 job openings."" (Nanette Asimov, ""Teacher Job Security Fuels Prop. 74 Battle,"" San Francisco Chronicle). This quote further proves why tenure is pretty much useless and unfair because teachers DO NOT NEED TENURE to continue their job as a teacher at their shchool, past school, future school, or school they are applying for. Reason 8 - With job protections granted through court rulings, collective bargaining, and state and federal laws, teachers today no longer need tenure to protect them from dismissal: ""For this reason, few other professions offer tenure because employees are adequately protected with existing laws."" (Tenure Reforms and NJSBA Policy: Report of the NJSBA Tenure Task Force,"" New Jersey School Boards Association website, www.njsba.org), (Scott McLeod, JD, PhD, ""Does Teacher Tenure Have a Future?,"" www.dangerouslyirrelevant.org). This is the most important fact out of all these because it shows how the WHOLE REASON teacher tenure is here in the first place is NOT NEEDED not have the protections that teachers have without tenure. The teacher tenure is not benefitial for anyone except teachers - they get unfair advantages in MANY ways, some I have just listed. Why should we let this continue if unnessisary? Citations: http://teachertenure.procon.org...... http://teachertenure.procon.org...... http://teachertenure.procon.org...... Wanda Marie Thibodeaux, ""Pro & Cons of Teacher Tenure,"" www.ehow.com Patrick McGuinn, ""Ringing the Bell for K-12 Teacher Tenure Reform,"" www.americanprogress.org http://teachertenure.procon.org...... ""Rhee-Forming D.C. Schools,"" www.wsj.com Marcus A. Winters, ""Challenging Tenure in D.C.,"" www.manhattan-institute.org M.J. Stephey, ""A Brief History of Tenure,"" www.time.com Rose Garrett, ""What Is Teacher Tenure?,"" www.education.com http://teachertenure.procon.org...... ""Rhee-Forming D.C. Schools,"" www.wsj.com Steven Brill, ""The Rubber Room,"" New Yorker Tenure Reforms and NJSBA Policy: Report of the NJSBA Tenure Task Force,"" New Jersey School Boards Association website, www.njsba.org Scott McLeod, JD, PhD, ""Does Teacher Tenure Have a Future?,"" www.dangerouslyirrelevant.org Nanette Asimov, ""Teacher Job Security Fuels Prop. 74 Battle,"" San Francisco Chronicle Rebuttals: (rebuttal for ""academic freedom""): Actually, it does only benefit the teachers. Refer back to my reason 4 in the first round: ""Reason 4 - Teacher tenure does nothing to promote the education of children: ""Former DC Schools Chancellor Michelle Rhee said in 2008, ""Tenure is the holy grail of teacher unions, but it has no educational value for kids; it only benefits adults.”(""Rhee-Forming D.C. Schools,"" www.wsj.com). This piece of evidence means that the only people actually benefiting from this tenure are the teachers who are employed - not any students. Isint education suppost to be focused on the younger generation and their best interest? Since when did school become all about the teachers - this tenure undermines what it means to actually be a teacher. If anything, it is only a BAD THING for students - and why would we keep something in our school systems that MAKES THE GENERATIONS' LEARNING LESS VALUEABLE? It does not make any sense."" (Rebuttal for ""high standard""): That is completely false. Once teachers recieve tenure - they work less hard because they feel as if they are invincible. Refer back to my argument for my reason 1: ""Reason 1 - Teacher tenure creates complacency because teachers know they are unlikely to lose their jobs: If teachers know that they reached the period where they get special defence from most accusations - it would send the message to them that they can then do whatever they want to do in the classroom and really slack with their teaching duties."" This quote clearly explains how it does nothing except disadvantage the students in the long run. We have more teachers then we need - if we get rid of tenure we will have a job application in that field decrease - it just will not happen. Teachers are paid very well - and it is one of the jobs most people want to work for - so what you have said is false."	PRO	26
26	Se3f07189-Af5b8ed2c	Should teachers union be abolished	Challenge is accepted. I look forward to debating you on this interesting topic.	CON	27
27	Sc065954f-A6deb09b6	There should not be a teacher tenure.	"Quotes used in my debate are all included here. (I know this is not exactly allowed and it's really messy and confusing but 10,000 characters (approx. 1500 words) really isn’t enough for 10 rebuttals.) Rebuttal of ‘Reason 1’: ‘a’ (this is where Quote a. from the picture should go) Pro is presupposing that teachers will become complacent if they know they are unlikely to lose their jobs. However, 1. Pro does not give any proof that supports this. 2. A study suggests that academic performance does not slack off after tenure. [1] (Downloadable on the website). It measures the productivity (total number of papers) and impact (citations of papers) of the economics and finance faculty from top twenty-five schools and it finds that they are consistent before and after tenure. 3. There are other incentives for teachers to work. [1] points out that other incentives including pay rise, reduced teaching load and more research funds. Pressure from colleagues and academic discipline are also incentives for teachers to work. Therefore, I can conclude that ‘reason 1’ is invalid. (Although [1] is focused on professors, some incentives I have listed in 3. are also shared by K-12 teachers.) Rebuttal of ‘Reason 2 and 6’ ‘b’ ‘c’ What Pro says is misleading. Tenure may make it difficult to remove under-performing teachers but it makes it EQUALLY DIFFICULT to remove good teachers. But isn’t this the whole point of tenure - to protect teachers from being fired without a just cause, so to protect academic freedom and increase the quality of education? Also, how many under-performing teachers are there anyway? Teachers perform poorly either because they don’t have the ability to perform well, or they are able to but they are simply complacent and therefore not willing to make an effort. The latter I have already proven to be unlikely in my ‘Rebuttal of ‘Reason 1’. The former, as I will explain now, is unlikely too. If a teacher were inept, he wouldn’t have been employed and wouldn’t have been granted tenure in the first place. This isn’t really a disadvantage because under-performing teachers are rare while many more teachers and students can be benefitted. ‘d’ Exactly. There are laws our there designed to remove tenured teachers. It is the administrators’ fault that for some reason they do not use these laws to dismiss teachers, not tenure’s fault. I do agree that tenure makes it difficult to fire under-performing teachers. However, these teachers are rare and it is equally difficult to fire good teachers. If school administrators can utilise tenure well then both under-performing teachers can be fired and good teachers can be protected. Rebuttal of ‘Reason 3’ A large number of people being against tenure cannot explain whether tenure is inherently good or bad. Rebuttal of ‘Reason 4’ ‘e’ This is a short-sighted and superficial statement to make and Pro fails to realise the indirect effect tenure has on students. Tenure gives teachers academic freedom to teach controversial subjects. Students are being taught these and it is already evident how students are affected and benefited. Students develop critical thinking skills and gain knowledge to a wide range of topics. Other benefits of students are mentioned in previous round. The statement that teacher tenure does nothing to promote the education of children is simply not true. Rebuttal of ‘Reason 5’ ‘f’ This merely shows that the system used to grant tenures to K-12 teachers is not strict enough. At best, it only shows that some sort of reform may be needed to change the way tenure is granted at K-12 level, but tenure itself is fine. Also, this argument only focuses on K-12 teachers, and I will remind voters professors are also included in this debate. Rebuttal of ‘Reason 7’ ‘g’ I have already explained in my 2nd contention that tenure can attract people to become teachers. So now the question is whether tenure is NEEDED to do so? The answer is yes, because less people can apply for teacher college and an estimated of 440,000 extra teachers are needed to replace baby boomers. This I have also explained in my 2nd contention. Further evidence that supports this is a webpage on the California Teacher Association website, titled ‘Impending Teacher Shortage Crisis’ [3]. Pro has given the example of a school in Sacramento (Capital of California) to show that there isn’t a teacher shortage. However, it is only the example of a single school and it does not show the general pattern while the statewide statistics do. Also, Pro overlooks other factors that could attract an unusually high number of teachers to apply for jobs at this school – e.g. a high salary. In conclusion, Pro’s point is invalid because I have pointed out the problems with the example she uses. I have also provided a more representative data that disproves her point. Furthermore, I have explained in my 2nd contention about how tenure can and needs to attract people to become teachers. Rebuttal for ‘Reason 8’ ‘h’ 1. The fact that there are multiple methods to protect teacher from dismissal does not mean that teacher tenure is unnecessary. If, according to Pro’s logic, only one way of protecting teacher from dismissal is needed, then shouldn’t ‘collective bargaining, state law and federal law’ be unnecessary too because ‘job protections granted through court rulings’ can offer this protection already? Wouldn’t she be contradicting herself by listing 4 alternatives when she is saying that only one is needed? 2. If that was not what she meant, if she is also acknowledging that different methods can co-exist, then why choose teacher tenure to be the one to be abolished? Pro says teacher tenure has many disadvantages, but I’ve refuted her arguments about these disadvantages already in my above rebuttals. Also, the other methods she has listed do have some of the disadvantages that teacher tenure has too because they have similar purposes. 3. If you look at the sections related to alternative methods to protect teachers from the document Pro used as evidence in her argument, (p.4, paragraphs 2-3) [4] it says: ‘i’ The document does not see these alternatives as a long-term solution, but only as a temporary measure to protect teachers during the period of tenure law reform in NJ. ‘It does not in any way, describe these alternatives as effective either, saying that all they merely do is ‘not leave teachers at the mercy of cruel and capricious boards of education.’ In the last few sentences, it even stresses on the benefits of tenure. The conclusion is that the evidence Pro uses doesn’t actually support her claim. If anything, it is CONTRADICTORY to her entire position in this debate. Pro does not give any explanation to why tenure in particular should be abolished but not other methods of protecting teachers. The evidence given by her – not only is it unsupportive of her argument – it is even against it. Rebuttal for ‘Rebuttal for ""high standard""’ I have explained in my Rebuttal of ‘Reason 4’ how tenure can have indirect effects on children too. Pro shouldn’t just focus on direct effects and it is a shallow thing to do so. Furthermore, Pro has completely dropped my point on academic freedom and tacitly agrees that it does benefit people (‘j’) but she tries to deny the merit of it by claiming it does not benefit students. Therefore, my point still stands. Tenure protects academic freedom, allowing teachers to perform research freely and teach controversial subjects, which benefits students. Rebuttal for ‘Rebuttal for ""high standard""’ Pro argues that my 2nd contention is false in her rebuttal. Her reasons for this are: 1. ‘k’ This, I have already explained why it is not true in my ‘Rebuttal of ‘Reason 1’: Pro failed to support ‘reason 1’ with proof; I have provided studies that disprove it; I have explained that there are other incentives for the teacher to work. 2. ‘l’ If you look at [2] and [4] of the previous round you will see Pro’s assertion ‘m’ (incidentally, she uses the wrong ‘then’) is already proven false by sources I have cited in the previous round and she hasn’t given evidence in this round that proves otherwise. ‘n’ [3] of my previous round has already proven this false. I have proven both of these reasons given by Pro as false thus her rebuttal of my point is invalid. Therefore, my point still stands, which I will repeat here once more: Teacher tenure provides a high standard of education to students. Also, I want to point out that Pro’s rebuttal of my 2nd contention is not supported by evidence and merely based on assertion. Why should you vote Con? Pro has explained the disadvantages of tenure but most of which have been refuted. I have explained the advantages of tenure, which Pro has either dropped or attempted to refute but does not succeed as I have proven her rebuttals invalid. This means I have successfully shown that there should be teacher tenure because the advantages outweigh the disadvantages while Pro has not shown why there should not be teacher tenure I have met the criteria for me to win this debate but Pro hasn’t. Also BoP should be on Pro because she needs to explain why the status quo should be changed but she fails to fulfil this BoP. Other than that Pro has, on many occasions, failed to provide evidence to support her claims and in her rebuttal of my 2nd contention, Pro’s blatantly disregards the sources I have cited in the previous round and she continues to make unfounded assertions, which are already proven false by these sources. Pro’s arguments heavily rely on ‘appeal to emotion’ and ‘circular reasoning’. [1]http://papers.ssrn.com...; [2] Deleted [3] https://www.cta.org... [4] http://www.njsba.org..."	CON	28
28	S51530f3f-A4af6e080	Should Tenures Be Taken Away	"Thank you Con for helping to provide an engaging debate. I want to start off by taking off the CR's: Weak points: ~ CR1- Con's CR1 has nothing to do with this topic. ""What administrators want"" have nothing to do with tenures. I suggest Con to focus on the debate. ~ CR2- I urge Con to read my counter rebuttal. I addressed the flaws in the idea that """"The financial and career safety tenure provides, persuades better qualified candidates to be teachers."" In Round 3, R2. Con has no reply and concedes. Now here are some things I would like to address for Con's Rebuttals: CR1- As shown in previous points, Con has ignored my arguments. I clearly provided how tenures inhibit new ideas in my 1st Support. He concedes. Also, notice that he provides his main point that ""they don't have to worry about being fired they are free to experiment"" near the end of the debate. Abusive argumentation is abusive. CR2- Once again, Con ignored my point that people aren't arbitrarily fired in my R2, Round 3. Furthermore, as he has also shown, when those without tenures are fired, those with tenures will NOT be fired which is unfair and supports my 1st and 2nd supports. CR3- My creative opponent has ignored the core of my argument. The point is that teachers may have undesirable habits on their personal basis but still influence children on a large scale. It doesn't have anything to do with other jobs-- the point is kids are affected by those that are backed up by tenures. Also, I did not say that tenures make teachers ""unfirable"", but rather harder to fire. Please don't stick words in my mouth. Here are some flaws with Con's argument as a whole: 1. He concedes to many of my rebutals and agrees with my arguments. 2. Con digresses from the main debate, while I stayed on topic. 3. He overlooks the definition and supports/facts around tenures, while I have brought the debate back on track. Thank you to Con again for his efforts and viewers for their time."	PRO	29
29	S51530f3f-Ab10cafd7	Should Tenures Be Taken Away	This is a debate of tenures for teachers. The definitions are to be set such that: Tenures are to be defined as allowing a teacher to be guaranteed the teaching position for the rest of their life (just for this debate to simplify definitions). All terms and words are to be based on the U.S. culture, economy, system(s), etc. Pro will be for the removal of tenures while Con will be for the status quo which is the existence of tenures.	PRO	30
30	S1b03f390-Ac2df2618	The collective bargaining rights of teachers should be removed	Congrats, good luck.	CON	31
31	S1b03f390-A171b6164	The collective bargaining rights of teachers should be removed	Pro wins	CON	32
32	S1b03f390-Ab4876e7d	The collective bargaining rights of teachers should be removed	That's too bad and bit surpised. I was looking forward to the last few rounds.	PRO	33
33	Se02d66a9-A83ca082	Public Schooling Systems Should Operate Year-Round	"Im a little disappointed with the rebuttal, I was hoping for a response with some counter-arguemets. I'm not sure what you mean by your first statement ""someone can be tenured after a certain number of years leading to decrease in education"" Do you mean a decrease in the education of the teacher? Or the teacher becoming a worse teacher to the students? Either way this doesn't completely make sense. There are teachers that can improve or worsen in their teaching over time, but all schools have annual or more frequent, workshops to develop their teaching skills. Even tho the teachers contracts are based on an entire 'year' of work. Their contracts would have to be re-negotiated based on the number of hours worked. But, the less-stringent schedule to meet the strict curriculum requirements , would have to be considered as well as the shorter work day. You are correct, the taxes would increase, and this would likely cause the combining of school districts to consolidate the tax-payers (because local property owners pay school taxes regardless of whether or not they have children). My argument was more towards the inconvenience of having to care for/making sure they are cared for by someone, while the parents are at work. Most of the options for child care, do not include furthering their education. Which is money well spent vs having your child play at a day care center."	PRO	34
34	Se02d66a9-Ad9dc99f9	Public Schooling Systems Should Operate Year-Round	The American Schooling System is quite unique in its own way. The education system is the one of the only systems where someone can be tenured after a certain number of years leading to decrease in education. I would have to argue that even though your idea is moral it would bring a huge burden to the tax payers in this country, you claim that it would save money to parents but at the same time they would be paying much more in taxes for these salaries going to teachers	CON	35
35	Se02d66a9-A2d6a2fb0	Public Schooling Systems Should Operate Year-Round	As an opponent, I would prefer to have someone who is currently in college, or is a professional educator of any sort of institution. My point of views are coming from an American schooling system, I understand other countries may have different schedules. I attended a university that operated on a year-round 11 week quarter schedule, as opposed to the normal 15 week semester. My First Point: the American schooling system schedule originated with respect to the farming schedule. Summers were given as time off so that children could help with life around the farm during the growing months (the most important ones). While this was fair and logical when agriculture was life-sustaining for the average family, and when small farmers were important to the economy, this sort of lifestyle is no longer as prevalent, or time consuming (mostly due to agriculture technology and large agriculture corporations). Our schooling schedule is a relic of the past. My Second Point: data shows that there is a significant drop off in acquired knowledge during the 2-3 months that students have off in the summer. This test data shows a drop off in all major areas of study, particularly language comprehension, writing, and mathematics. This drop off causes a lag in the acquired knowledge/skills for the proceeding year. It causes teachers to use valuable progressive education time to review material that was learned in the previous year and forgotten over the summer break. An attempted countermeasure to this that was implemented decades ago, is summer reading. But this is not enough to maintain the skills acquired from the previous year. (If my opponent decides to disagree with this point, I would be happy to show at least a dozen studies that prove this point) My Third Point: This year-round schedule would greatly help parents, particularly single parents, who work normal hours. During the summer, parents need to either be home, pay for a sitter, or send their child to camp, while they are at work. This year-round schooling would relieve many parents from financial burdens. My Fourth Point: The state and federal governments mandate a minimum required number of hours for students to attend school each year. Most public schools plan and operate on this minimum required schedule, while planning for the potential emergency cancellation day. A year round schedule would allow for more flexibility in adjusting the scheduling, and could accommodate students who observe various religious holidays. My Fifth Point: With a year-round schedule, the aforementioned minimum schedule would be easily met. This could shorten the average school day and allow for more time of the 'arts' that are usually the first ones to be removed during financial hardship. This would also allow for more physical education time, and sports practice time after school. As well as homework time (assuming this type of school system would require homework). My Sixth Point: America's public school system has dropped in it's world ranking. I believe this is largely due to the minimum graduation standard of knowledge, and the knowledge lost during the summer break months. This year-round schedule would allow for students to receive almost an additional year of schooling, relative to the current 4 year schedule, thus allowing for knowledge that reaches into the average college level. Whomever should accept, please stick to the larger points, and avoid such things as, lunch/recess time or vacation time. I would prefer a current educator accept this debate. Thank you, and good luck.	PRO	36
36	Sc065954f-Ac3a1cfc1	There should not be a teacher tenure.	Hello and thank you for joining my debate I will be arguing to get rid of the teacher tenure. This is how the debate will be layed out: 1st round: Acceptence only (anything more will be an automatic forfeit)!	PRO	37
37	S51530f3f-A8d372777	Should Tenures Be Taken Away	Accept	CON	38
38	Se02d66a9-Aa8d1c070	Public Schooling Systems Should Operate Year-Round	Thank you for the more challenging rebuttal. I think the topic over teacher's unions/contracts/tenures is a separate issue. Yes, it is very hard to fire a teacher who performs poorly, even after years of parental complaints and poor performance reviews from administrators. I had a very bad teacher in 6th grade, everyone knew she was bad, and for years, people wrote formal complaints about her, eventually the school administrators moved her into a mobile-trailer classroom outside the school to teach 'basic skills' just to get her away from the rest of the students. Private schools do not have teaching unions, so this problem is non-existent there. There's no perfect system for finding perfect employees, but once again, that's another issue. As for the time scheduling, schools release their students around 2:30 PM, which is still way before the standard work day. If the student plays sports, then they attend that. If they are not old enough and require additional care after school, almost every public school has an after-hours care. I attended one for a time as well. The time there was spent doing HW and playing games with the other kids. This was an additional cost to parents, but it's within reason, (i can not give accurate costs) my parents were by no means wealthy. The money/funding is really the biggest issue and what education will come down to. We all want a better society, a better economy and job market, but how can we expect that with low education standards, and sinking education rankings relative to other countries? It all starts with a good education, it's not always a tangible thing, but it's something society has to make a decision on together for the greater good. We already put a high value on education at the advanced level (college). I have friends that just graduated with $120k-$180k in loan debt over 4-5 years. This was from an expensive university, but you see my point. Why is a 4-5 year education worth so much, but the education you receive for the previous 13 years any less important? The school budget in my hometown was often voted down because there was a large population of senior citizens that would vote the budget down because they didn't want their taxes to go up, even the smallest bit. The school system was not very good, and my parents sent me away to private school because of this. Now that many of them have died (sry to say this), and people with children have moved in, the people who care about their children's education vote the budget up knowing their taxes are being spent on their own children, thus granting the school more for the students. My younger brother is now attending a school that my parents once dreaded the thought of ever sending me to. I personally do not have all the details figured out, I can imagine smaller school districts merging with larger ones to make the system more cost effective. But the idea is to enable and push the minimum standards of education, and this is a decision that society must make. I believe that a viable approach through year-round schooling can be achieved. My inspiration for this topic came from TED Talks conference on Education, and from one of the talks in particular. I will post the link below. Thanks for debating. This is the specific talk. http://www.youtube.com... If you are interested in other education talks, just YouTube search: TED Talks Education 2013	PRO	39
39	Se02d66a9-A15a4abaf	Public Schooling Systems Should Operate Year-Round	I apologize i did not meet your requirements to debate. I might not have been clear with the tenure. I am a believer in a system that does not tenure their employees after a certain number of years. I would ask you if you would see a doctor that had tenure and no matter what happened after a surgery that person would still have a job. In respect to your argument with shorter work days how does that even make sense? An average work day for a parent is 9am-5pm assuming you wanted a child to be released earlier then where would that child go? I am just confused as to how this would be implemented. Do you think that a tax payer with no children would be willing to pay more in education so someone elses child could stay in school the entire year? Salaries have been a big debate throughout years and I believe that adding more hours would only spark more debate and ultimately fail. Dont get me wrong the idea itself is very noble but the funding doesnt seem to add up	CON	40
40	Sc065954f-Aca97908	There should not be a teacher tenure.	I accept	CON	41
