	id	conclusion	premises	stance	rank
0	S84f999d5-Afc0ad91b	Resolved: Medical Marijuana should be legal	"First I thank my opponent for allowing the debate to be open to all, second i wish to clarify my beliefs, it is my personal belief that MJ should stay illegal. I do also believe that by giving peopel ""medical"" MJ people will start to become addicted to it. I accept this debate and look forward to the following rounds Def: Medical- medï¿½iï¿½cal (md-kl) adj. 1. Of, relating to, or characterizing the study or practice of medicine. 2. Requiring treatment by medicine. n. A thorough physical examination MJ-A common street and recreational drug that comes from the marijuana plant: the hemp plant cannabis sativa. The pharmacologically active ingredient in marijuana is tetra-hydro-cannabinol (THC). Marijuana is used to heighten perception, affect mood, and relax. Many people think marijuana is harmless, but it is not. Signs of marijuana use include red eyes, lethargy, and uncoordinated body movements. The long-term effects may include decrease in motivation and harmful effects on the brain, heart, lungs, and reproductive system. People who smoke marijuana are also at increased risk of developing cancer of the head and neck. A pharmaceutical product, Marinol, that contains synthetic THC, is available as a prescription medication. It comes in the form of a pill (eliminating the harmful and cancer-causing chemicals present when marijuana is smoked) and is used to relieve the nausea and vomiting associated with chemotherapy for cancer patients and to treat loss of appetite in AIDS patients. mood-altering herb they smoked marijuana Legal-1. Of, relating to, or concerned with law: legal papers. 2. a. Authorized by or based on law: a legal right. b. Established by law; statutory: the legal owner. 3. In conformity with or permitted by law: legal business operations. 4. Recognized or enforced by law rather than by equity. 5. In terms of or created by the law: a legal offense. 6. Applicable to or characteristic of attorneys or their profession. n. 1. One that is in accord with certain rules or laws. 2. legals Investments that may be legally made by fiduciaries and certain institutions, such as savings banks and insurance companies. Also called legal list these came from: http://www.medterms.com...(MJ) http://medical-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com... If there are any problems with the above let me know and ill explain each."	CON	1
1	S84f999d5-A8ec3778e	Resolved: Medical Marijuana should be legal	My first debate! Round 1: Acceptance I think Medical Marijuana should be legal and ther are many benefits. Definitions: Marijuana - Marijuana (marihuana) Cannabis sativa L., also known as Indian hemp, is a member of the Cannabaceae or hemp family, thought to have originated in the mountainous districts of India, north of the Himalayan mountains. http://medical-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com... LETS DO THIS!	PRO	2
2	S84f999d5-A650dde01	Resolved: Medical Marijuana should be legal	"I world like to thank my opponent for accepting this debate! And adding those definitions. 1. Health Benefits Alzheimer's Disease - Forget the burnout jokes you've heard about effects of smoking marijuana on the brain. Scripps Research Institute found the active ingredient in marijuana, tetrahydrocannabinol or THC, inhibits the formation amyloid plaque, a primary pathological marker. The report, published in 2006 in the journal Molecular Pharmaceutics,said THC is a ""considerably superior inhibitor of (amyloid plaque) aggregation"" to several currently approved drugs for treating the disease. Brain Cancer - Researchers from Compultense University in Madrid, Spain have found THC promotes the death of brain cancer cells (http://www.medicalnewstoday.com...) by a process called autophagy. Autophagy essentially causes the cancerous cells to eat itself. Seems that would be a health benefit of medical marijuana that should be investigated further, no? Head and Neck Cancer - The journal Cancer Prevention Research published a study in 2009 that observed 434 subjects with incidents of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) from 9 medical facilities. While the results were far from conclusive, the evidence indicated patients with 10-20 years of marijuana use was associated with the ""significantly reduced"" (http://cancerpreventionresearch.aacrjournals.org...) risk of HNSCC. Lung Cancer and Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD)- Researchers at Harvard University (http://www.sciencedaily.com...) found THC to reduce tumor growth in common lung cancer by 50% and significantly reduce the ability of the cancer to spread. In 2006 a UCLA researcher found smoking marijuana did not appear to increase the risk of lung cancer or head-and-neck malignancies even among heavy users. However, the study indicated the more tobacco a person smoked, the greater the risk of developing cancer of the lung and head and neck. Note: I am by no means saying the ingestion of combustible smoke of any kind is not without risks, I am merely trying to present information about research conducted and the results that show promising results of the potential health benefits of medical marijuana which warrant further investigation. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) - More commonly known as Lou Gehrig's disease is a fatal neurodegnerative disorder characterized by the selective loss of motor neurons in the spinal cord, brain stem and motor cortex. Clinical trials have indicated that cannabinoids in mice can delay ALS progression. This supports anecdotal reports from ALS sufferers who found the health benefits, of medical marijuana helpful in relieving certain disease symptoms such as pain, appetite loss and depression. http://norml.org... Chronic Pain - Chronic pain is a broad category that includes, but is not limited to, arthritis, migraines, back pain, fibromyalgia, carpal tunnel syndrome, phantom limb pain, scoliosis, osteoporosis, multiple sclerosis and HIV, The University of California at Davis (http://www.thirdage.com...) studied the efficacy of inhaled cannabis patients with central or peripheral nerve-related pain in a randomized, placebo-controlled trial. Results indicated that low levels of THC was equally effective as high levels in resolving pain indicating you don't have to smoke your brains out for the analgesic effects of THC. 2. Science The University of California Center for Medicinal Cannabis Research has done several studies into the efficacy of marijuana for neuropathic use - especially in pain reduction. They have been done using FDA standardized clinical trials with randomized, placebo-controlled procedures. These studies have clearly shown the positive effects of using marijuana as a pain reliever and medicine for patients with such chronic conditions as HIV, multiple sclerosis, diabetes, spinal cord injury, and sleep disorders. http://www.cmcr.ucsd.edu... A recent review in Germany showed that since 2005, there have been 37 controlled studies assessing the safety and efficacy of marijuana (and its compounds). These involved far more subjects than the average study seeking FDA approval for a prescription drug. http://www.cannabis-med.org... Many opponents of medical marijuana claim that there is ""little evidence"" and call for ""more research, more science."" These are the more reasonable of the detractors for the medicinal use of marijuana, of course. Yet these reasonable arguments against marijuana as a medicine are pretty hollow given the vast amount of research that's already been done with much more on the way. Proponents of medical marijuana often ignore the research as well. Despite the common claims to the contrary, there is evidence that marijuana also has negative side effects. Most of these center on the physical effects of smoking it as well as proven cognitive negatives. Admittedly, the effects are no worse (and generally better) than the side effects associated with many prescription drugs and accepted non-prescription drugs such as alcohol or tobacco. http://www.newscientist.com... Most of the arguments for or against the use of medical marijuana seem to center on social rather than science-based concerns. This is rightly so, in some cases, as there are deep social issues involved with marijuana's use (or prohibition). Many communities have benefited from the introduction of medical marijuana, however. http://cannacentral.com... negative impacts of marijuana, socially, are nearly always associated with its prohibition rather than its allowance. 3. Marijuana legalization could save US taxpayers money. Marijuana prohibition currently costs taxpayers billions of dollars a year to enforce, and it accomplishes little or nothing beneficial in terms of economic benefits. On the contrary, legalizing marijuana would not only save taxpayers billions of dollars a year in unnecessary costs, but it would also jumpstart the economy to the tune of $100 billion a year or more, say some economists. In an open letter written to the President, Congress, State Governors, and State Legislators, more than 550 economists, including several nobel laureates, draw attention to a report authored by Professor Jeffrey A. Miron that highlights the potential economic benefits of marijuana decriminalization. Entitled The Budgetary Implications of Marijuana Prohibition, the report states that legalizing, taxing, and regulating marijuana would do wonders to reduce inflated budgets and generate new revenue streams. ""[R]eplacing prohibition with a system of taxation and regulation [...] would save $7.7 billion per year in state and federal expenditures on prohibition enforcement and produce tax revenues of at least $2.4 billion annually if marijuana were taxed like most consumer goods,"" say the economists. ""If, however, marijuana were taxed similarly to alcohol or tobacco, it might generate as much as $6.2 billion annually."" As many as 60 million Americans are already estimated to be spending upwards of $110 billion a year on marijuana, the vast majority of which ends up in the hands of organized crime units. If marijuana was legalized, honest citizens could grow and sell it instead, which would inject new life into the flailing economy, and redirect billions of dollars in cash flow from criminals to legitimate growers. ""At a minimum, this debate will force advocates of current policy to show that prohibition has benefits sufficient to justify the cost to taxpayers, foregone tax revenues, and numerous ancillary consequences that result from marijuana prohibition,"" add the economists. http://www.huffingtonpost.com... http://www.prweb.com..."	PRO	3
3	S84f999d5-A6a5f04e5	Resolved: Medical Marijuana should be legal	"Contention 1. Users can become addicted to the ""medicine"" Long-term effectsMain article: Long-term effects of cannabis Main article: Cannabis smoking Cannabis is ranked one of the least harmful drugs by a study published in the UK medical journal, The Lancet.[24]Cannabis can be habit-forming and the development of cannabis dependence in some users has been well established; its effects on intelligence[25], memory, respiratory functions and the possible relationship of cannabis use to mental disorders[26] such as schizophrenia,[27] psychosis,[28] Depersonalization disorder[29] and depression[30] are still under discussion. A study published in the American Journal of Epidemiology in 2011, concluded that the prevalence of obesity is lower in cannabis users than in nonusers.[31] A decades-long study of more than 1,000 New Zealanders found that the persistent, dependent use of marijuana before age 18 showed lasting harm to a person's intelligence, attention and memory. The international team of researchers found an average IQ decline of 8 points when age 13 and age 38 IQ tests were compared. Quitting pot did not appear to reverse the loss either, said lead researcher Madeline Meier, a post-doctoral researcher at Duke University. B. Smokers become addicts. They keep smoking because they find pleasure in it and because it relieves stress. There are better ways to enjoy life and deal with stress. All information is based on scientific research about what will give you the best chances of quitting. Adapted from http://www.surgeongeneral.gov... and www,smokefree.gov Contention 2. Effects of MJ on the brain. Effects on the Brain Scientists have learned a great deal about how THC acts in the brain to produce its many effects. When someone smokes marijuana, THC rapidly passes from the lungs into the bloodstream, which carries the chemical to organs throughout the body, including the brain. In the brain, THC connects to specific sites called cannabinoid receptors on nerve cells and influences the activity of those cells. Some brain areas have many cannabinoid receptors; others have few or none. Many cannabinoid receptors are found in the parts of the brain that influence pleasure, memory, thought, concentration, sensory and time perception, and coordinated movement(5). The short-term effects of marijuana can include problems with memory and learning; distorted perception; difficulty in thinking and problem solving; loss of coordination; and increased heart rate. Research findings for long-term marijuana use indicate some changes in the brain similar to those seen after long-term use of other major drugs of abuse. For example, cannabinoid (THC or synthetic forms of THC) withdrawal in chronically exposed animals leads to an increase in the activation of the stress-response system(6) and changes in the activity of nerve cells containing dopamine(7). Dopamine neurons are involved in the regulation of motivation and reward, and are directly or indirectly affected by all drugs of abuse. Though in the short run i COULD concede that legalizing MJ will cost taxpayers less money, but the effects are LONG-TERM and could cost more than what the affirmative actually believes. Contention 3. Effects on the Heart One study has indicated that a user's risk of heart attack more than quadruples in the first hour after smoking marijuana(8). The researchers suggest that such an effect might occur from marijuana's effects on blood pressure and heart rate and reduced oxygen-carrying capacity of blood. Effects on the Lungs A study of 450 individuals found that people who smoke marijuana frequently but do not smoke tobacco have more health problems and miss more days of work than nonsmokers(9). Many of the extra sick days among the marijuana smokers in the study were for respiratory illnesses. Even infrequent use can cause burning and stinging of the mouth and throat, often accompanied by a heavy cough. Someone who smokes marijuana regularly may have many of the same respiratory problems that tobacco smokers do, such as daily cough and phlegm production, more frequent acute chest illness, a heightened risk of lung infections, and a greater tendency to obstructed airways(10). Smoking marijuana increases the likelihood of developing cancer of the head or neck, and the more marijuana smoked the greater the increase(11). A study comparing 173 cancer patients and 176 healthy individuals produced strong evidence that marijuana smoking doubled or tripled the risk of these cancers. Marijuana use also has the potential to promote cancer of the lungs and other parts of the respiratory tract because it contains irritants and carcinogens(12, 13). In fact, marijuana smoke contains 50 to 70 percent more carcinogenic hydrocarbons than does tobacco smoke(14). It also produces high levels of an enzyme that converts certain hydrocarbons into their carcinogenic form—levels that may accelerate the changes that ultimately produce malignant cells(15). Marijuana users usually inhale more deeply and hold their breath longer than tobacco smokers do, which increases the lungs' exposure to carcinogenic smoke. These facts suggest that, puff for puff, smoking marijuana may increase the risk of cancer more than smoking tobacco. Other Health Effects Some of marijuana's adverse health effects may occur because THC impairs the immune system's ability to fight off infectious diseases and cancer. In laboratory experiments that exposed animal and human cells to THC or other marijuana ingredients, the normal disease-preventing reactions of many of the key types of immune cells were inhibited(16). In other studies, mice exposed to THC or related substances were more likely than unexposed mice to develop bacterial infections and tumors(17, 18). http://www.learnwell.org... Finally contention 4. Long term effects that the affirmative did not tell you of. Effects of Heavy Marijuana Use on Learning and Social Behavior Depression(19), anxiety(20), and personality disturbances(21) have been associated with marijuana use. Research clearly demonstrates that marijuana has potential to cause problems in daily life or make a person's existing problems worse. Because marijuana compromises the ability to learn and remember information, the more a person uses marijuana the more he or she is likely to fall behind in accumulating intellectual, job, or social skills. Moreover, research has shown that marijuana's adverse impact on memory and learning can last for days or weeks after the acute effects of the drug wear off(22, 23). Students who smoke marijuana get lower grades and are less likely to graduate from high school, compared with their non-smoking peers(24, 25, 26, 27). A study of 129 college students found that, for heavy users of marijuana (those who smoked the drug at least 27 of the preceding 30 days), critical skills related to attention, memory, and learning were significantly impaired even after they had not used the drug for at least 24 hours(28). The heavy marijuana users in the study had more trouble sustaining and shifting their attention and in registering, organizing, and using information than did the study participants who had used marijuana no more than 3 of the previous 30 days. As a result, someone who smokes marijuana every day may be functioning at a reduced intellectual level all of the time. More recently, the same researchers showed that the ability of a group of long-term heavy marijuana users to recall words from a list remained impaired for a week after quitting, but returned to normal within 4 weeks(29). Thus, it is possible that some cognitive abilities may be restored in individuals who quit smoking marijuana, even after long-term heavy use. With this known i ask for a vote in Negation of the resolution which states that: Resolved: Medical Marijuana should be legal http://www.debate.org..."	CON	4
4	S84f999d5-Adda3d52a	Resolved: Medical Marijuana should be legal	"I am going to continue my last arguments. And I thank my opponent Rebuttles Ever since the mid 70s, medical scientists have been well aware of the beneficial effects of cannabinoid compounds over cancerous cells. Thanks to modern science, over a dozen studies conducted during recent years have been able to partially reveal just how it works. Yet cannabis is still not endorsed by pharmaceutical companies as a cancer cure, and since it is not promoted through mainstream channels, very few people are aware of its benefits. Consequently, it is not sought after as an alternative to disfiguring chemotherapy and other harmful drugs. Laboratory tests conducted in 2008 by a team of scientists formed as a joint research effort between Spain, France and Italy, and published in The Journal Of Clinical Investigation, showed that the active ingredient in marijuana, known as tetrahydrocannabinol or THC, can function as a cure for brain cancer by inducing human glioma cell death through stimulation of autophagy. The study concluded that via the same biochemical process THC could terminate multiple types of cancers, affecting various cells in the body. Other studies have shown that cannabinoids may work by various mechanisms, including inhibiting cell growth, inducing cell death, and inhibiting tumor metastasis. What is amazing is that while cannabinoids effectively target and kill cancerous cells, they do not affect healthy, normal cells and may actually protect them against cellular death. Moreover, cannabinoids are also researched for their pain-modulation and anti-inflammatory abilities as they bind to special receptors in the brain, much like opioid derivatives that are commonly prescribed today. Further evidence to support the effects of cannabis extract on malignant cells comes from the real life experience of individuals who have successfully overcome cancer by using cannabis oil. Examples include a patient, who managed to completely cure his skin cancer by simply applying cannabis oil onto the affected areas of the skin, as well as another, who recovered from a severe head injury with the aid of hemp oil. One of the cannabinoids that has displayed amazing medical properties is cannabidiol, or CBD - a non-psychoactive compound that is regarded by some as the medical discovery of the 21st century, and with good reason. Research indicates that CBD can relieve convulsions, reduce inflammation, lower anxiety and suppress nausea, while also inhibiting cancer development. In addition, CBD has exhibited neuroprotective properties, relieving symptoms of dystonia and proving just as effective as regular antipsychotics in the treatment of schizophrenia. What stands out is that from the vast amount of research and data available, as well as the personal experiences of cancer survivors, is that no chemotherapy currently being used medically can match the non-toxic anti-carcinogenic and anti-tumorigenic effects of these natural plant compounds. http://safeaccess.ca... http://www.jci.org... http://dotsub.com... http://en.wikipedia.org... 1.Health Benefits Even Queen Victoria used marijuana extracts to relieve menstrual cramps. Mental Imbalances ADHD, PTSD, OCD, ODD, IED, CD, Bi-polar disorder, all in one 7-year-old boy. This is tough, since we're pretty sure one of those things listed is a nuclear device. Surprisingly, the child was not named Damien. According to the boy's mother (http://medicalcbd.wordpress.com...) his life was pretty much entirely therapy, medication, and institutionalization. There's a Charlie Sheen joke in here, for sure, but we're not going to make it. We're talking about sick kids here, focus: How Medical Marijuana Helped: After trying many medications, the boy's mother finally got him a prescription for medical marijuana. After eating part of a muffin, he stopped being a complete trainwreck of a human being. According to mom, that day ""was the first day of Jeff's life, literally!"" Ignoring the fact that her misuse of ""literally"" implies she gave birth to a seven-year-old, this anecdote illustrates a miraculous turnaround for the boy. He is now 8, and apparently living the life of a normal, if maladjusted boy. ADD and ADHD A well documented USC study (http://pr.cannazine.co.uk...) done about a year ago showed that marijuana is not only a perfect alternative for Ritalin but treats the disorder without any of the negative side effects of the pharmaceutical. 2. Science A controlled substance The medical establishment continues to reinvent their justification for the demonization of marijuana as more and more of the claims made against cannabis are disproven. The justification currently holding the most ground is that cannabis is a plant, and cannot be carefully regulated because of the great chemical variability that is found between individual plants. Of course, medications have to be carefully monitored when the substance being used is also a poison at a slightly higher dose, as the overwhelming majority of pharmaceuticals are. And while one could understand the desire to maintain the strict regulation standards, the fact is that attempts to fix the purity problem have severely reduced its medical potency, and process has no real benefit. Control doesn't make the substance any safer because it isn't dangerous in the first place. Its toxicity is comparable to water. Yes, an individual could make themselves feel very unwell if they surpass their stomach's physical limits with any substance. A medicine to save us from medicines Individuals who have successfully used cannabis as a part of cancer therapy agree that there needs to be more research and more discussion about the actual science behind the plant's chemistry - not just anecdotal evidence from individual users. Unfortunately, most of the investigation of the medical applications for cannabis are being done illegally and in secret. The controversy, even according to the researchers themselves, is the main barrier to conducting scientific studies of the plant's properties. As a substance classified as a Schedule I drug, even research on cannabis is an illegal activity. Many sick individuals simply cannot wait for governments to get over their hang-ups, nor can the expectation that they should be justified. Currently, patients are required to exhaust the potential of other anti-nausea medications, many of which are less safe, in order to be prescribed medical marijuana. Inaugural beginnings of real science The government has licensed a few manufacturers to produce THC acid extracts from the cannabis plant, as well to artificially synthesize the chemical. The problem is that the tentative separation has only resulted in a THC that has a profoundly diminished efficacy, and leaves behind the other 88 healing cannabinoids. In a medical context, cannabis is almost exclusively used as a treatment for the symptoms of chemotherapy - the polite name for radiation sickness. It must be remembered that THC is rarely used to treat cancer itself, and that patients are not really tapping into its healing properties. The overwhelming majority of patients are using the plant's psychoactive properties to mediate the deleterious effects of radiation. The direct effect of THC on ailments themselves is a largely unexplored field. As research moves forward, the artificially manufactured cannabinoids will inevitably increase in quality, eliminating the purity problems, and paving the way for the kind of precise control that will make regulators comfortable distributing the product. http://watch.montanapbs.org... http://www.drcnet.org... http://www.nap.edu... Ran out of Characters because of my Rebuttel THANKS FOR THE DEBATE!!"	PRO	5
5	S84f999d5-A930ed70e	Resolved: Medical Marijuana should be legal	"Ok due to it being the last round in this debate I will cut it short. I will end my case and continue by attacking my opponents case, then if space allows I will attempt to summarize the above debate. First, my entire case I ask to be flowed over. Second, starting with my opponents comment ""Add is ADHD its just generalized"" Ok first I am going to use my aunt as a source(she is in the medical profession) ""One is Hyperactive and the other is not"" by this she means that Add= Attention Deficit Disorder, Adhd= Attention Hyperactive Deficit Disorder. ""Yet cannabis is still not endorsed by pharmaceutical companies as a cancer cure, and since it is not promoted through mainstream channels, very few people are aware of its benefits. Consequently, it is not sought after as an alternative to disfiguring chemotherapy and other harmful drugs""(opponents case)"" as I had proven earlier in my case Some of marijuana's adverse health effects may occur because THC impairs the immune system's ability to fight off infectious diseases and cancer. In laboratory experiments that exposed animal and human cells to THC or other marijuana ingredients, the normal disease-preventing reactions of many of the key types of immune cells were inhibited(16). In other studies, mice exposed to THC or related substances were more likely than unexposed mice to develop bacterial infections and tumors. Now as you can see my opponent has failed to uphold the goal of trying to get everyone to agree that MJ should be legalized for medical reasons- My response to this was A. the person could get hooked B. people are more likely to develope the things that MJ is trying to cure. Since my opponents case is basically what I have addressed above the only last thing to bring up is: Methylphenidate- known as Ritalin. My opponent by bringing this up has basically endorsed it I am now saying: Methylphenidate may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: nervousness difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep dizziness nausea vomiting loss of appetite stomach pain diarrhea heartburn dry mouth headache muscle tightness uncontrollable movement of a part of the body restlessness numbness, burning, or tingling in the hands or feet decreased sexual desire painful menstruation And by my opponent saying that Queen Victoria used Meth(ritalin) for was to ease the pain of menstruation. As you the Judges can read it increases the pain of menstruation. Sources: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov... http://pr.cannazine.co.uk... my opponents case I do also want to say that by my opponent endorsing Methylphenidate they have just gone against what they have said in their ENTIRE case along with the Rebuttle. It is for the above reasons that I respectfully ask for a firm vote in negation of the resolution. Thanks again for leaving this debate open!"	CON	6
