	id	conclusion	premises	stance	rank
0	S29d685d9-A2003667e	CO2 emissions are directly responsible for climate change.	"The Macquarie Dictionary defines the term ""climate change"" as- a significant change in the usual climatic conditions especially that thought to be caused by global warming. This 'climate change' can be caused by natural or human induced impacts. The global average temperature has risen by nearly a degree in the past 50 years. Scientists around the world have been recording temperature increases, raised ocean levels and melting of ice caps. All this is evidence that the earth is experiencing a ""climate change"". Many people believe that this change is primarily due to the fact that our CO2 emissions have created more greenhouse gases. They believe that there is a relationship between the rise in temperatures and the rise in CO2 emissions. Data shows an ""association"" between temperature levels and CO2 emissions but does not necessarily prove that increased CO2 levels are the most significant aspect of today""s climate change. For something complex like the weather system, many scientists are needed to unravel the story behind climate change. While most scientists believe climate change occurs, not all agree on the extent and relevance of human activity as an influence on climate change. While major international climate agencies all emphasise the critical role of CO2 emissions in climate change, others are not so sure. For example, some scientists have conducted research that suggests that temperatures were higher than they are today, during the Roman and Medieval periods. These ancient civilisations would not have emitted CO2 emissions as we do today, so why did their temperatures rise? Temperatures have risen and fallen for a long time. The National Centre for Atmospheric Research (NCAR) states that climate change over the longer term is mainly due to the amount of sun energy hitting the Earth. Slight changes in the Earth""s orbit and changes in sun ray intensity, can alter the temperatures here on Earth. Even so, most scientists still emphasise the role of CO2 emissions in unprecedented, rapid global warming. The frank fact is that climate change cannot be stopped. It is completely natural."	CON	1
1	S61b46552-Adf240942	Anthropogenic global climate change.	"R3 Rebuttals ""Studies Contradict Man Made Warming Anthropogenic climate change is not real. Yes, the climate changes, but humans aren't the cause of it."" Repcon There are some scholarly peer reviewed studies that claim man made global climate change doesn't exist but they are in the vast minority. ""The 928 papers were divided into six categories: explicit endorsement of the consensus position, evaluation of impacts, mitigation proposals, methods, paleoclimate analysis, and rejection of the consensus position. Of all the papers, 75% fell into the first three categories, either explicitly or implicitly accepting the consensus view; 25% dealt with methods or paleoclimate, taking no position on current anthropogenic climate change. Remarkably, none of the papers disagreed with the consensus position."" [1] The 800 year lag is a misunderstanding of the Milankovitch cycle. ""The outgassing of CO2 from the ocean has several effects. The increased CO2 in the atmosphere amplifies the original warming. The relatively weak forcing from Milankovitch cycles is insufficient to cause the dramatic temperature change taking our climate out of an ice age (this period is called a deglaciation). However, the amplifying effect of CO2 is consistent with the observed warming."" [13] ""Manipulation by Scientists and Bribing by the Government One of the biggest science scandals, Climategate, occurred in 2009. Hackers stole emails from scientists at the East Angelia Climatic Research Unit, and statements from the emails contradict anthropogenic climate change. "" Repcon ""Though some of the CRU emails can sound damning when quoted out of context, several inquiries have cleared the scientists. The Independent Climate Change Email Review put the emails into context by investigating the main allegations. It found the scientists' rigour and honesty are not in doubt, and their behaviour did not prejudice the IPCC's conclusions, though they did fail to display the proper degree of openness. The CRU emails do not negate the mountain of evidence for AGW."" [14] The scientists were honest, the quotes were out of context. As for your quote from nationalreview, nationalreview is very bias. ""These media sources are highly biased toward conservative causes. They utilize strong loaded words (wording that attempts to influence an audience by using appeal to emotion or stereotypes), publish misleading reports and omit reporting of information that may damage conservative causes. Sources in this category may be untrustworthy."" [15] ""This bias completely destroys the point of researching issues like climate change. Research isn't supposed to be ""Let's try to prove our political agenda."". It's supposed to be a non partisan look into an issue affecting our lives. How can we accept something as a fact if the people researching the issue are lying to us."" Repcon Climate scientists aren't lying to us. There are multiple safeguards in place to prevent this from happening. Just for starters the peer review system. As for Mars we understand so little about Mars atmosphere that this is weak evidence at best. Furthermore, the tempature increase on Mars can be explained by dust storms. ""Conclusion The empirical evidence isn't conclusive on whether global warming is happening on Mars. However, to answer the question on whether the sun is causing Earth's global warming, there is plentiful data on solar activity and Earth's climate. Many papers have examined this data, concluding the correlation between sun and climate ended in the 70's when the modern global warming trend began. So the argument that Martian warming disproves anthropogenic global warming fails on two points - there is little empirical evidence that Mars is warming and Mars' climate is primarily driven by dust and albedo, not solar variations.""[16] Solar activity from the Sun is at a low. ""Many papers have examined this data, concluding the correlation between sun and climate ended in the 70's when the modern global warming trend began."" [16] Thanks for debating. Sources. 13. https://skepticalscience.com... 14. https://www.skepticalscience.com... 15. https://mediabiasfactcheck.com... 16. https://www.skepticalscience.com..."	PRO	2
2	S5d920354-A6df788a1	Global Warming is Real and is Manmade!	In ROUND 3 I will continue my ROUND 2 response, where I will show the link between carbon dioxide emitted by human activity and the increase in global surface temperatures. In the final ROUND I will go over the effects of climate change caused by global warming. Carbon Dioxide (and Other Green House Gases) are Causing Global Warming and Climate Change With the advent of the industrial revolution, human-induced global warming--through such actions as the burning of fossil fuels and deforestation--has led to an unprecendented increase in CO2 concentrations and other green house gases [1][2]. However, climate scientists overwhelmingly pin the blame of global warming on carbon dioxide because it is the most widely and most abundantly emitted green house gas of human activity [3]. According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), carbon dioxide and methane are responsible for more than 84% of the warming being inflicted on our planet because of green house gases [3]. The remaining percent of warming can be attributed to green house gases like nitrous oxide and flourinated gases [3]. By itself, the IPCC has affirmed that carbon dioxide is reponsible for 54.7% of the global warming caused by green house gases; that's because it is the most abundantly produced green house gas of human activity and because it has an enormous radiative impact compared to other green house gases when accounting for its abundance in the atmosphere, its indirect heating effects, and because of the CO2 molecule's long lifetime in the atmosphere [3][4]. In fact, only water vapor has a stronger green house gas effect than carbon dioxide in our atmosphere, but unlike CO2 water vapor isn't being emitted naturally by any known source at a large enough scale to be blamed for global warming [4]; water vapor does contribute to global warming, but this is because of a feedback loop caused as other green house gasses in our atmosphere increase in concentration and heat up the Earth's lower atmosphere [5]. As the Earth's atmosphere and surface become warmer because of green house gas emissions, this drive's more water vapor to be absorbed into the air, further heating our planet; this water vapor loop is well-understood and contributes to anthropogenic (human induced) global warming [5]. However, other green house gases emitted by human activity drive this loop and are primarily responsible for global warming. As the statistic above shows, carbon dioxide is responsible for 54.7% of the warming being inflicted on our planet because of human activity. As I demonstrated with the graph on carbon dioxide concentration in our atmosphere in ROUND 2 (and as I reported in ROUND 1), never in the last 400,000 years has the CO2 concentration been quite so high as it is today! Ice core analysis shows that in the last half-million years the peak concentration (the highest concentration) of CO2 was almost 300 parts per million--and that was 300,000 years ago [1]. Today the concentration of atmospheric CO2 is 398 parts per million! Nearly 33% higher than it has ever been in the last half-million years [1]! This unprecedented increase in atmospheric carbon dioxide can be attributed almost entirely to human activity, such as through large-scale deforestation, land use changes (such as methane emission from ammonia-based fertilizers), and the burning fossil fuels (which include coal and gasoline) [2]. The IPCC reports that in the last 150 years, human activity has increased atmospheric carbon dioxide levels from 280 parts per million to 398 parts per million today [2]! According to the United States Environment Protection Agency (EPA), humans largely emit carbon dioxide and other green house gases from the production of electricity and from transportation; in the U.S. these two behaviors contribute to 60.8% of all the nation's emitted green house gases in a single year [3]. Other behaviors, such as those of industry, businesses, of agricultural, and of energy use in homes, contribute to the remaining 39% of the nation's green house gas emissions [3]. Global warming is produced when green house gases in the atmosphere--water vapor, carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide--accumulate in the atmosphere and act as a thermal blanket for the Earth, absorbing the sun's radiative heat and warming the Earth's surface [2]. Nature uses green house gases to facilitate heat trapping from the sun's rays to warm the Earth and make biological life on the planet possible. But if the concentrations of green house gases in the atmosphere become excessive, this can overheat the planet, alter the Earth's climate system, injure natural ecosystems, and make it harder for biological processes to take place and be maintained. This is exactly what's happening now and generating planet-altering climate change (these effects will be explicated in the final ROUND). Volcanes and Changes in the Sun's Solar Output are Not Contributing to Global Warming Some skeptics claim that erupting land and submarine volcanoes are causing global warming. But reports by the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) shows that volcanoes primarily emit gases, like sulfur dioxide, at high enough concentrations so as to encourage global cooling [6]. In fact, the USGS takes the position that erupting volcanoes typically emit gases that are more likely to lead to global cooling[6]! The USGS asserts that CO2 emission by human activity dwarfs the output of CO2 by all volcanoes worldwide [6]. Some opponents of manmade global warming claim that the Sun's solar output is responsible for the current rise in atmospheric temperatures--that humans are not responsible for the modern warming trend. But this is a view that the scientists firmly dispute, based on a variety of evidence (2): --Scientists point out that, since 1750, the average amount of energy coming from the sun either remained constant or increased only slightly. --If the warming were caused by increased radiation coming from the sun, then scientists would expect to see warmer temperatures in all layers of the atmosphere. Instead what they observe is a cooling in the upper atmosphere, and a warming at the surface and in the lower parts of the atmosphere. Scientists say that this is a strong indication that green house gases are responsible for global warming, because they trap heat in the lower atmosphere. --Computer climate models that include solar irradiance changes can't reproduce the observed temperature trend over the past century or more without including a rise in green house gases. All of these bits evidence demonstrate that solar irradiance is not responsible for the rise in Earth's surface temperatures over the last century or more. Elevations in Atmospheric Carbon Dioxide Concentrations have been responsible for Prehistoric Rises in Global Surface Temperatures Scientists that study prehistoric ice ages and warming ages point out that carbon dioxide released into the atmosphere by geologic activity or other natural events has consistently led to warming trends in Earth's history. For example, the Ice Age that stretched during most of the Cryogenian Period (840 - 635 million years ago) had the potential to cover the entire globe and would have been a major setback for biological life and evolution in general had it been this severe. Scientists that study the period point out that this extreme condition never occured because, as the Earth froze, atmospheric oxygen was forced into the oceans, which oxidized organic matter and released CO2 into the atmosphere, preventing temperatures from falling any lower [7]. Presently scientists have no other plausible model to explain how the atmosphere was able to maintain warmth while the Earth froze [7]. Scientists also point out that a rise in atmospheric CO2 concentrations have led to prehistoric Warming Ages. 55 million years ago, the Earth entered a sudden and rapid global warming event, which scientists call the the Paleocene-Eocene Thermal Maximum (PETM). Analysis firmly demonstrates that the quantity of carbon and carbon dioxide in the atmosphere rose significantly at the beginning of this period [8] [9]. The increasing concentration of CO2 is considered the chief reason why the atmosphere warmed so rapidly during PETM [8] [9]. Ice core analysis also attributes the end of the last ice age to an increase in atmospheric CO2 levels[10]. That carbon dioxide is a heat-trapping greenhouse gas is sound; its heat-trapping effects have been studied in laboratories throughout the world. Its contribution to prehistoric global warming has long been understood, even before the concept of man-made global warming entered the imagination [11]. [1] (http://climate.nasa.gov...) [2] (http://climate.nasa.gov...) [3] (http://www.epa.gov...) [4] (http://en.wikipedia.org...) [5] (http://www.nasa.gov...) [6] (http://volcanoes.usgs.gov...) [7] (http://news.softpedia.com...) [8] (http://en.wikipedia.org...) [9] (http://smithsonianscience.org...) [10] (http://www.livescience.com...) [11] (http://en.wikipedia.org...)	PRO	3
3	S7f312d2e-A25a35d09	Global Warming is killing us	"Greetings. The arguments you are presenting are common among the left side of the political spectrum over the issue of Global Warming/Climate Change. The negation of this debate will now provide eight points as to why the public has been mislead over the complexities of this issue: 1. The 20th century warming of 1-1.4""F is within the +/- 5""F range of the past 3,000 years. A 2003 study by researchers at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics shows temperatures from 1000-1100 AD (before fossil fuel use) that are comparable to those from 1900-1990. 2. Rising CO2 levels are a result of global warming, not a cause of it. As temperatures increase, CO2 is released from ""carbon sinks"" such as the oceans or the Arctic tundra. Measurements of ice core samples show that over the last four climactic cycles (past 240,000 years) periods of global warming preceded global increases in CO2. 3. Human releases of CO2 cannot cause climate change as any increases in CO2 are eventually balanced by nature. CO2 gets absorbed by oceans, forests, and other ""carbon sinks"" that increase their biological activity to absorb excess CO2 from the atmosphere. 50% of the CO2 released by the burning of fossil fuels and other human activities, has already been absorbed. 4. Global warming and cooling are caused by fluctuations in the sun's heat (solar forcing), not by the minor greenhouse effect of human-produced gases such as CO2 and methane. Between 1900 and 2000 solar irradiance increased .19%. This increase correlates with the rise in surface temperatures in the US. 5. Due to the inherent unpredictability of climate systems it is impossible to accurately use models to determine future weather. Climate models have been unable to simulate major known features of past climate such as the ice ages or the very warm climates of the Miocene, Eocene, and Cretaceous periods. If models cannot replicate past climate changes they should not be trusted to predict future climate changes. 6. Rising temperatures are caused primarily by water vapor, the most abundant greenhouse gas in the atmosphere, not by CO2. Water vapor concentrations in the atmosphere are driven by natural storm systems and ocean currents. According to a Mar. 5, 2010 study by researchers at NOAA, water vapor in the stratosphere was responsible for increasing the rate of warming during the 1990s by 30%. 7. The increased hurricane activity over the past decade (1995-2005), including hurricane Katrina, is not the result of human-induced climate change; it is the result of cyclical tropical cyclone patterns, driven primarily by natural ocean currents, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's (NOAA) testimony in the US Senate on Sep. 20, 2005. 8. Deep ocean currents cause climate warming and cooling in long term cycles. The minor greenhouse effect of human produced CO2 pales in comparison. Global cooling from 1940 to the 1970s, and warming from the 1970s to 2008, coincided with fluctuations in ocean currents and cloud cover driven by the Pacific Decadal Oscillation (PDO) - a naturally occurring rearrangement in atmospheric and oceanic circulation patterns."	CON	4
4	S29d685d9-A48b0a9a4	CO2 emissions are directly responsible for climate change.	Before I begin I would like to initially reinforce the topic of the debate: CO2 emissions are DIRECTLY responsible for climate change. As the negative, I will rebut the affirmative as to why CO2 emissions (whilst adding to the heat of the planet) are not directly responsible for the changes we are experiencing on our Earth today. The affirmative stated statistics such as- 'CO2 is the largest factor of global warming', '97% of scientists agree global warming is man-made', 'CO2 is the largest greenhouse gas threat'. Whilst these points may be tried and tested, they do not favour the topic when the phrase 'directly responsible' is included. From what I gather, the affirmative believes that CO2 is speeding up the process of global warming. Whilst this may be true, in between the lines of this statement we can discover that another factor is actually CAUSING the process of global warming. As the negative, I believe that the cause is the fluctuation of the Earth's orbit (which the affirmative incorrectly stated as 'stable') and the consistent rise and fall of the planet's historical temperatures. I stand by the points I raised in the first round and have now refuted the rebuttal put forward by the affirmative and regarded it as invalid. Does the affirmative have anything within it's case to state why my reason for global warming is incorrect? Do they believe that CO2 emissions are the initial cause of the Earth heating world-wide? By now, they should surely agree that CO2 emission are not directly responsible for climate change.	CON	5
5	S842a72e0-A53b9c19e	Climate Shift	"I thank my opponent for accepting my debate. Pros Case Point A: Climate shift is real Sub point 1: Scientific consensus ""Carbon dioxide and other global warming pollutants are collecting in the atmosphere like a thickening blanket, trapping the sun's heat and causing the planet to warm up. Although local temperatures fluctuate naturally, over the past 50 years the average global temperature has increased at the fastest rate in recorded history. Scientists say that unless we curb the emissions that cause climate change, average U.S. temperatures could be 3 to 9 degrees higher by the end of the century."" Scientists are undoubtedly sure that climate shift is indeed a real threat. As is corroborated by a collection of scholarly articles. 97% of climate scientists are in agreement.(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6)(7) Point B: Climate Shift is influenced by Humanity Sub point 1: Scientific Consensus ""The United States Global Change Research Program (which includes the Department of Defense, NASA, National Science Foundation and other government agencies) has said that 'global warming is unequivocal and primarily human-induced' and that 'climate changes are underway in the United States and are projected to grow.'""(3) ""The climate change denial machine has been working hard to discredit the latest UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report, which confirms that climate change is occurring and that human activity is primarily responsible.""(5) ""Ninety-seven percent of climate scientists agree that climate-warming trends over the past century are very likely due to human activities,and most of the leading scientific organizations worldwide have issued public statements endorsing this position.""(6) Again this is a case of overwhelming scientific consensus. Sub point 2: Carbon Emissions are a major cause, and a product of humanity ""The only way to explain the pattern [of climate shift] is to include the effect of greenhouse gases (GHGs) emitted by humans.""(2) ""Most climate scientists agree the main cause of the current global warming trend is human expansion of the ""greenhouse effect"" -- warming that results when the atmosphere traps heat radiating from Earth toward space. Certain gases in the atmosphere block heat from escaping. Long-lived gases, remaining semi-permanently in the atmosphere, which do not respond physically or chemically to changes in temperature are described as ""forcing"" climate change""(7) Scientists agree that humanity has altered the balance of greenhouse gases on the earth, which is a direct major cause of climate shift. Point C: Climate shift threatens the future, and is therefore a legitimate concern of those who care about the future of humanity. Global climate change leads to: -Increased temperatures -Changing landscapes -A higher number of droughts, fires, and floods -Endangered wildlife habitats -Rising sea levels -Greater damage from extreme storms -More heat-related illness and disease -Economic problems (4) Sub point 1: Climate shift encourages natural disaster ""Hurricanes and other storms are likely to become stronger.""(2) ""Anthropogenic warming by the end of the 21st century will likely cause hurricanes globally to be more intense on average (by 2 to 11% according to model projections for an IPCC A1B scenario). This change would imply an even larger percentage increase in the destructive potential per storm, assuming no reduction in storm size.""(8) With storms like sandy become more common and much stronger, Humans living in coastal regions face a very serious threat. Already hurricanes such as sandy and the recent Typhoon in the Philippines are costing billions of dollars in damages, and thousands of human lives. (9)(10) Climate shift is likely to cause these storms to become even more intense, therefore threatening to cost even more lives and money. These death counts and damage costs are not small, by any stretch of the imagination; with climate shift left unchecked, these counts will grow. Sub point 2: Rising sea levels/flooding ""Sea levels are expected to rise between 7 and 23 inches (18 and 59 centimeters) by the end of the century, and continued melting at the poles could add between 4 and 8 inches (10 to 20 centimeters).""(2) ""Floods and droughts will become more common. Rainfall in Ethiopia, where droughts are already common, could decline by 10 percent over the next 50 years.""(2) As polar caps warm, ice caps are likely to melt and release water into the oceans and seas, causing the levels to rise. this could result in flooding in coastal cities, such as New Orleans, that are close to, at, or below sea level. Furthermore, climate shift could result in more intense cycles of flooding and drought in other areas of the world, such as Ethiopia. These are real threats to human lives. Flooding, like storms, has a very high cost of both money and, more importantly, human life. Sub point 3: Future effects of climate shift could significantly increase the hostility of the Earth environment. There are a myriad of effects that climate shift will have that will make the Earth environment, generally, more hostile. ""Some diseases will spread, such as malaria carried by mosquitoes."" (2) ""Less fresh water will be available. If the Quelccaya ice cap in Peru continues to melt at its current rate, it will be gone by 2100, leaving thousands of people who rely on it for drinking water and electricity without a source of either."" (2) ""Below are some of the regional impacts of global change forecast by the IPCC: -North America: Decreasing snowpack in the western mountains; 5-20 percent increase in yields of rain-fed agriculture in some regions; increased frequency, intensity and duration of heat waves in cities that currently experience them. -Latin America: Gradual replacement of tropical forest by savannah in eastern Amazonia; risk of significant biodiversity loss through species extinction in many tropical areas; significant changes in water availability for human consumption, agriculture and energy generation. -Europe: Increased risk of inland flash floods; more frequent coastal flooding and increased erosion from storms and sea level rise; glacial retreat in mountainous areas; reduced snow cover and winter tourism; extensive species losses; reductions of crop productivity in southern Europe. -Africa: By 2020, between 75 and 250 million people are projected to be exposed to increased water stress; yields from rain-fed agriculture could be reduced by up to 50 percent in some regions by 2020; agricultural production, including access to food, may be severely compromised. -Asia: Freshwater availability projected to decrease in Central, South, East and Southeast Asia by the 2050s; coastal areas will be at risk due to increased flooding; death rate from disease associated with floods and droughts expected to rise in some regions.""(11) Here are some charts to illustrate further effects. (11) Current Effects Future Effects Summary There is overwhelming evidence to prove that climate shift is indeed real and influenced greatly by humanity. Furthermore, the effects of climate shift are so massively detrimental that those who are concerned over the future of humanity ought to care greatly about the massive loss of life, cost of damage, and other miscellaneous undesirables that are consequences of climate shift. Sources 1. http://www.sciencemag.org...... 2. http://environment.nationalgeographic.com...... 3. http://www.nrdc.org...... 4. http://www.mfpp.org...... 5. http://www.edf.org...... 6. http://climate.nasa.gov...... 7. http://climate.nasa.gov...... 8. http://www.gfdl.noaa.gov...... 9. http://www.usatoday.com...... 10. http://worldnews.nbcnews.com...... 11. http://climate.nasa.gov......"	PRO	6
6	S61b46552-A628bcac3	Anthropogenic global climate change.	"But there is a scientific consensus on the reality of anthropogenic climate change. Climate scientists have repeatedly tried to make this clear. It is time for the rest of us to listen"" -Stupidape This argument that a consensus proves anything is preposterous, for a multitude of reasons. Number one, the consensus cited. This consensus reviewed 928 abstracts published in scientific journals. 928 is a somewhat large number, but not large enough to make a point off of, considering that there are hundreds of thousands of scientists in this field in the U.S alone [1]. Number two, consensuses are not reliable arguments, especially in the world of science. Scientists had consensuses on many things that turned out to be wrong, such as that saccharin led to cancer, and that the Sun's energy was a requirement for life. This consensus on climate change could be wrong as well. ""Man-made climate change has already claimed human lives and continues to do so."" - Stupidape Yes, weather related deaths are happening. And they are declining. According to an article by a Department of the Interior Science and Technology policy analyst Indur M. Goklany, global death rates from weather-related disasters are declining [2]. ""Death rates for the different categories of extreme events were generally lower in the 1990s and early to mid-2000s than in previous decades."". ""The World Health Organisation estimates that the warming and precipitation trends due to anthropogenic climate change of the past 30 years already claim over 150,000 lives annually. Many prevalent human diseases are linked to climate fluctuations, from cardiovascular mortality and respiratory illnesses due to heatwaves, to altered the transmission of infectious diseases and malnutrition from crop failures.""- Stupidape In the report I just showed about death rates from weather-related disasters, Indur M. Goklany goes into that exact study, and debunks it, saying that, ""Notably, the contribution of extreme events to the mortality burden for accidental causes of death is also small (at 0.4 percent)."" Saying that we need to double down on climate change because it is .4% of the reason for accidental deaths (Not even a full percentage) is quite ridiculous. Goklany also says that, ""Although the review paper""s estimates for non-flood related deaths are problematic, if one accepts them as valid, that means that climate change currently accounts for less than 0.3 percent of all global deaths. Accordingly, based on current contributions to the global mortality burden, other public health issues outrank climate change."" This furthers the point that cracking down on global warming for something so small is preposterous. But even putting the argument aside, it doesn't even fit in with what is supposed to be debated. ""I will contend that anthropogenic climate change exists. The contender will contend that anthropogenic climate change is non-existent.""-Stupidape Arguing that ""anthropogenic climate change"" is to blame for weather-related deaths doesn't prove it exists; it is simply an effect. An effect that wasn't supposed to be debated in the first place. ""The consensus that humans are causing recent global warming is shared by 90%""100% of publishing climate scientists according to six independent studies by co-authors of this paper. Those results are consistent with the 97% consensus reported by Cook et al.""- Stupidape The consensus cited is one example of how scientists manipulate data to push an agenda. Cook reviewed 11,914 abstracts, but only used 4,014 in his sample size because they expressed an opinion on global warming [3]. And from there, he got his 97% consensus, which is cherry picking, since he excluded the papers that did not give an opinion. But even THIS subset can't be relied on, as Former Director of the Center for Climatic Research at the University of Georgia and professor at the university Dr. David Legates and his colleagues reviewed Cook's consensus. Legates and his team found that, ""Only 41 out of the 11,944 published climate papers Cook examined explicitly stated that Man caused most of the warming since 1950. Cook himself had flagged just 64 papers as explicitly supporting that consensus, but 23 of the 64 had not, in fact, supported it."" [4]. Popular Technology reached out to scientists whose articles were in Cook's consensus. They said their papers were falsely classified or not included if they didn't endorse man-made climate change. ""[Interviewer] Dr. Carlin, your paper A Multidisciplinary, Science-Based Approach to the Economics of Climate Change is categorized by Cook et al. (2013) as; 'Explicitly endorses AGW but does not quantify or minimize'. Is this an accurate representation of your paper? Carlin: No, if Cook et al's paper classifies my paper, A Multidisciplinary, Science-Based Approach to the Economics of Climate Change' as ""explicitly endorses AGW but does not quantify or minimize,"" nothing could be further from either my intent or the contents of my paper. [5]. Is this an accurate representation of your paper? Morner: ""Certainly not correct and certainly misleading. The paper is strongly against AGW, and documents its absence in the sea level observational facts. Also, it invalidates the mode of sea level handling by the IPCC."" ""The fossil fuel industry risks losing $33 trillion in revenue over the next 25 years as global warming may drive companies to leave oil, natural gas and coal in the ground, according to a Barclays Plc energy analyst.""- Stupidape Yes, because of the regulations being put on the fossil fuel industry by the government in an attempt to stop something that is naturally occurring. So this isn't a fault of the industry- it's the government that's implementing the regulations that would drive the industry to the ground. Like the article itself said, ""Government regulations and other efforts to cut carbon emissions will inevitably slash demand for fossil fuels, jeopardizing traditional energy producers, Mark Lewis, Barclays""s head of European utilities equity research, said Monday during a panel discussion in New York on financial risks from climate change."" Again, this has NOTHING to do with what is supposed to be discussed. It doesn't prove that global warming is man made, so it shouldn't have been brought up in the first place. ""The Koch Brothers have sent at least $88,810,770 directly to 80 groups denying climate change science since 1997. One of the world""s most prominent climate researchers publishing scientific papers that doubt humanity""s role in climate change has received at least $1.2 million from the fossil fuel industry to fund his research and salary, according to documents revealed this weekend.""- Stupidape. First off, it is unknown if the Koch Brothers' donations led to any biases in research. As for the scientist who is claimed to be biased, his research is supported by data looking at the sun activity and temperature over the last 100 years [6], like I presented in my Round 2 argument. And if you're bringing up funding biases, you might as well bring up the fact that the government participates in the same thing. ""The US government has provided over $79 billion since 1989 on policies related to climate change, including science and technology research, foreign aid, and tax breaks."" [7]. ""Right now, we have an energy policy that is rigged to boost the profits of big oil companies like Exxon, BP, and Shell at the expense of average Americans. CEO""s are raking in record profits while climate change ravages our planet and our people "" all because the wealthiest industry in the history of our planet has bribed politicians into complacency in the face of climate change."" - Stupidape Our energy policy is not rigged to help the oil industries. If anything, it's rigged AGAINST the fossil fuel industry. We have regulations that, as stated before, will destroy the fossil fuel industry, {continued on http://pastebin.com...}"	CON	7
7	S80500e82-A4108a2f4	Climate shift	"I thank my opponent for accepting my debate. Pros Case Point A: Climate shift is real Sub point 1: Scientific consensus ""Carbon dioxide and other global warming pollutants are collecting in the atmosphere like a thickening blanket, trapping the sun's heat and causing the planet to warm up. Although local temperatures fluctuate naturally, over the past 50 years the average global temperature has increased at the fastest rate in recorded history. Scientists say that unless we curb the emissions that cause climate change, average U.S. temperatures could be 3 to 9 degrees higher by the end of the century."" Scientists are undoubtedly sure that climate shift is indeed a real threat. As is corroborated by a collection of scholarly articles. 97% of climate scientists are in agreement.(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6)(7) Point B: Climate Shift is influenced by Humanity Sub point 1: Scientific Consensus ""The United States Global Change Research Program (which includes the Department of Defense, NASA, National Science Foundation and other government agencies) has said that 'global warming is unequivocal and primarily human-induced' and that 'climate changes are underway in the United States and are projected to grow.'""(3) ""The climate change denial machine has been working hard to discredit the latest UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report, which confirms that climate change is occurring and that human activity is primarily responsible.""(5) ""Ninety-seven percent of climate scientists agree that climate-warming trends over the past century are very likely due to human activities,and most of the leading scientific organizations worldwide have issued public statements endorsing this position.""(6) Again this is a case of overwhelming scientific consensus. Sub point 2: Carbon Emissions are a major cause, and a product of humanity ""The only way to explain the pattern [of climate shift] is to include the effect of greenhouse gases (GHGs) emitted by humans.""(2) ""Most climate scientists agree the main cause of the current global warming trend is human expansion of the ""greenhouse effect"" -- warming that results when the atmosphere traps heat radiating from Earth toward space. Certain gases in the atmosphere block heat from escaping. Long-lived gases, remaining semi-permanently in the atmosphere, which do not respond physically or chemically to changes in temperature are described as ""forcing"" climate change""(7) Scientists agree that humanity has altered the balance of greenhouse gases on the earth, which is a direct major cause of climate shift. Point C: Climate shift threatens the future, and is therefore a legitimate concern of those who care about the future of humanity. Global climate change leads to: -Increased temperatures -Changing landscapes -A higher number of droughts, fires, and floods -Endangered wildlife habitats -Rising sea levels -Greater damage from extreme storms -More heat-related illness and disease -Economic problems (4) Sub point 1: Climate shift encourages natural disaster ""Hurricanes and other storms are likely to become stronger.""(2) ""Anthropogenic warming by the end of the 21st century will likely cause hurricanes globally to be more intense on average (by 2 to 11% according to model projections for an IPCC A1B scenario). This change would imply an even larger percentage increase in the destructive potential per storm, assuming no reduction in storm size.""(8) With storms like sandy become more common and much stronger, Humans living in coastal regions face a very serious threat. Already hurricanes such as sandy and the recent Typhoon in the Philippines are costing billions of dollars in damages, and thousands of human lives. (9)(10) Climate shift is likely to cause these storms to become even more intense, therefore threatening to cost even more lives and money. These death counts and damage costs are not small, by any stretch of the imagination; with climate shift left unchecked, these counts will grow. Sub point 2: Rising sea levels/flooding ""Sea levels are expected to rise between 7 and 23 inches (18 and 59 centimeters) by the end of the century, and continued melting at the poles could add between 4 and 8 inches (10 to 20 centimeters).""(2) ""Floods and droughts will become more common. Rainfall in Ethiopia, where droughts are already common, could decline by 10 percent over the next 50 years.""(2) As polar caps warm, ice caps are likely to melt and release water into the oceans and seas, causing the levels to rise. this could result in flooding in coastal cities, such as New Orleans, that are close to, at, or below sea level. Furthermore, climate shift could result in more intense cycles of flooding and drought in other areas of the world, such as Ethiopia. These are real threats to human lives. Flooding, like storms, has a very high cost of both money and, more importantly, human life. Sub point 3: Future effects of climate shift could significantly increase the hostility of the Earth environment. There are a myriad of effects that climate shift will have that will make the Earth environment, generally, more hostile. ""Some diseases will spread, such as malaria carried by mosquitoes."" (2) ""Less fresh water will be available. If the Quelccaya ice cap in Peru continues to melt at its current rate, it will be gone by 2100, leaving thousands of people who rely on it for drinking water and electricity without a source of either."" (2) ""Below are some of the regional impacts of global change forecast by the IPCC: -North America: Decreasing snowpack in the western mountains; 5-20 percent increase in yields of rain-fed agriculture in some regions; increased frequency, intensity and duration of heat waves in cities that currently experience them. -Latin America: Gradual replacement of tropical forest by savannah in eastern Amazonia; risk of significant biodiversity loss through species extinction in many tropical areas; significant changes in water availability for human consumption, agriculture and energy generation. -Europe: Increased risk of inland flash floods; more frequent coastal flooding and increased erosion from storms and sea level rise; glacial retreat in mountainous areas; reduced snow cover and winter tourism; extensive species losses; reductions of crop productivity in southern Europe. -Africa: By 2020, between 75 and 250 million people are projected to be exposed to increased water stress; yields from rain-fed agriculture could be reduced by up to 50 percent in some regions by 2020; agricultural production, including access to food, may be severely compromised. -Asia: Freshwater availability projected to decrease in Central, South, East and Southeast Asia by the 2050s; coastal areas will be at risk due to increased flooding; death rate from disease associated with floods and droughts expected to rise in some regions.""(11) Here are some charts to illustrate further effects. (11) Current Effects Future Effects Summary There is overwhelming evidence to prove that climate shift is indeed real and influenced greatly by humanity. Furthermore, the effects of climate shift are so massively detrimental that those who are concerned over the future of humanity ought to care greatly about the massive loss of life, cost of damage, and other miscellaneous undesirables that are consequences of climate shift. Sources 1. http://www.sciencemag.org... 2. http://environment.nationalgeographic.com... 3. http://www.nrdc.org... 4. http://www.mfpp.org... 5. http://www.edf.org... 6. http://climate.nasa.gov... 7. http://climate.nasa.gov... 8. http://www.gfdl.noaa.gov... 9. http://www.usatoday.com... 10. http://worldnews.nbcnews.com... 11. http://climate.nasa.gov..."	PRO	8
8	S842a72c1-A143ebbac	Climate Shift	"I am confused by my opponents argument. He has taken the Con side and must disagree and disprove the resolution, but his argument is only in favor of the pro. I must assume that he is being sarcastic, but I am not sure. Pros Case Point A: Climate shift is real Sub point 1: Scientific consensus ""Carbon dioxide and other global warming pollutants are collecting in the atmosphere like a thickening blanket, trapping the sun's heat and causing the planet to warm up. Although local temperatures fluctuate naturally, over the past 50 years the average global temperature has increased at the fastest rate in recorded history. Scientists say that unless we curb the emissions that cause climate change, average U.S. temperatures could be 3 to 9 degrees higher by the end of the century."" Scientists are undoubtedly sure that climate shift is indeed a real threat. As is corroborated by a collection of scholarly articles. 97% of climate scientists are in agreement.(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6)(7) Point B: Climate Shift is influenced by Humanity Sub point 1: Scientific Consensus ""The United States Global Change Research Program (which includes the Department of Defense, NASA, National Science Foundation and other government agencies) has said that 'global warming is unequivocal and primarily human-induced' and that 'climate changes are underway in the United States and are projected to grow.'""(3) ""The climate change denial machine has been working hard to discredit the latest UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report, which confirms that climate change is occurring and that human activity is primarily responsible.""(5) ""Ninety-seven percent of climate scientists agree that climate-warming trends over the past century are very likely due to human activities,and most of the leading scientific organizations worldwide have issued public statements endorsing this position.""(6) Again this is a case of overwhelming scientific consensus. Sub point 2: Carbon Emissions are a major cause, and a product of humanity ""The only way to explain the pattern [of climate shift] is to include the effect of greenhouse gases (GHGs) emitted by humans.""(2) ""Most climate scientists agree the main cause of the current global warming trend is human expansion of the ""greenhouse effect"" -- warming that results when the atmosphere traps heat radiating from Earth toward space. Certain gases in the atmosphere block heat from escaping. Long-lived gases, remaining semi-permanently in the atmosphere, which do not respond physically or chemically to changes in temperature are described as ""forcing"" climate change""(7) Scientists agree that humanity has altered the balance of greenhouse gases on the earth, which is a direct major cause of climate shift. Point C: Climate shift threatens the future, and is therefore a legitimate concern of those who care about the future of humanity. Global climate change leads to: -Increased temperatures -Changing landscapes -A higher number of droughts, fires, and floods -Endangered wildlife habitats -Rising sea levels -Greater damage from extreme storms -More heat-related illness and disease -Economic problems (4) Sub point 1: Climate shift encourages natural disaster ""Hurricanes and other storms are likely to become stronger.""(2) ""Anthropogenic warming by the end of the 21st century will likely cause hurricanes globally to be more intense on average (by 2 to 11% according to model projections for an IPCC A1B scenario). This change would imply an even larger percentage increase in the destructive potential per storm, assuming no reduction in storm size.""(8) With storms like sandy become more common and much stronger, Humans living in coastal regions face a very serious threat. Already hurricanes such as sandy and the recent Typhoon in the Philippines are costing billions of dollars in damages, and thousands of human lives. (9)(10) Climate shift is likely to cause these storms to become even more intense, therefore threatening to cost even more lives and money. These death counts and damage costs are not small, by any stretch of the imagination; with climate shift left unchecked, these counts will grow. Sub point 2: Rising sea levels/flooding ""Sea levels are expected to rise between 7 and 23 inches (18 and 59 centimeters) by the end of the century, and continued melting at the poles could add between 4 and 8 inches (10 to 20 centimeters).""(2) ""Floods and droughts will become more common. Rainfall in Ethiopia, where droughts are already common, could decline by 10 percent over the next 50 years.""(2) As polar caps warm, ice caps are likely to melt and release water into the oceans and seas, causing the levels to rise. this could result in flooding in coastal cities, such as New Orleans, that are close to, at, or below sea level. Furthermore, climate shift could result in more intense cycles of flooding and drought in other areas of the world, such as Ethiopia. These are real threats to human lives. Flooding, like storms, has a very high cost of both money and, more importantly, human life. Sub point 3: Future effects of climate shift could significantly increase the hostility of the Earth environment. There are a myriad of effects that climate shift will have that will make the Earth environment, generally, more hostile. ""Some diseases will spread, such as malaria carried by mosquitoes."" (2) ""Less fresh water will be available. If the Quelccaya ice cap in Peru continues to melt at its current rate, it will be gone by 2100, leaving thousands of people who rely on it for drinking water and electricity without a source of either."" (2) ""Below are some of the regional impacts of global change forecast by the IPCC: -North America: Decreasing snowpack in the western mountains; 5-20 percent increase in yields of rain-fed agriculture in some regions; increased frequency, intensity and duration of heat waves in cities that currently experience them. -Latin America: Gradual replacement of tropical forest by savannah in eastern Amazonia; risk of significant biodiversity loss through species extinction in many tropical areas; significant changes in water availability for human consumption, agriculture and energy generation. -Europe: Increased risk of inland flash floods; more frequent coastal flooding and increased erosion from storms and sea level rise; glacial retreat in mountainous areas; reduced snow cover and winter tourism; extensive species losses; reductions of crop productivity in southern Europe. -Africa: By 2020, between 75 and 250 million people are projected to be exposed to increased water stress; yields from rain-fed agriculture could be reduced by up to 50 percent in some regions by 2020; agricultural production, including access to food, may be severely compromised. -Asia: Freshwater availability projected to decrease in Central, South, East and Southeast Asia by the 2050s; coastal areas will be at risk due to increased flooding; death rate from disease associated with floods and droughts expected to rise in some regions.""(11) Here are some charts to illustrate further effects. (11) Current Effects Future Effects Summary There is overwhelming evidence to prove that climate shift is indeed real and influenced greatly by humanity. Furthermore, the effects of climate shift are so massively detrimental that those who are concerned over the future of humanity ought to care greatly about the massive loss of life, cost of damage, and other miscellaneous undesirables that are consequences of climate shift. Sources 1. http://www.sciencemag.org... 2. http://environment.nationalgeographic.com... 3. http://www.nrdc.org... 4. http://www.mfpp.org... 5. http://www.edf.org... 6. http://climate.nasa.gov... 7. http://climate.nasa.gov... 8. http://www.gfdl.noaa.gov... 9. http://www.usatoday.com... 10. http://worldnews.nbcnews.com... 11. http://climate.nasa.gov..."	PRO	9
9	S61b46552-Ab8aa342d	Anthropogenic global climate change.	"Round four defense ""This argument that a consensus proves anything is preposterous, for a multitude of reasons. Number one, the consensus cited. This consensus reviewed 928 abstracts published in scientific journals. 928 is a somewhat large number, but not large enough to make a point off of, considering that there are hundreds of thousands of scientists in this field in the U.S alone [1]. Number two, consensuses are not reliable arguments, especially in the world of science. Scientists had consensuses on many things that turned out to be wrong, such as that saccharin led to cancer, and that the Sun's energy was a requirement for life. This consensus on climate change could be wrong as well."" Repcon First my opponent states there are hundreds of thousands of scientists within this field. That may be true, but considering each journal interviews has multiple scientist opinions changes the numbers. Furthermore, science magazine was not the only source I used. Finally, my opponent links to a long article in his/her source #1. My opponent has not met his/her burden of proof by quoting the relevant information. Having me proof a negative, that the information is not within the source would put an unfair burden on me. ""he consensus that humans are causing recent global warming is shared by 90%100% of publishing climate scientists according to six independent studies by co-authors of this paper. Those results are consistent with the 97% consensus reported by Cook et al (Environ. Res. Lett. 8 024024) based on 11 944 abstracts of research papers"" [5] As seen here there are 11,944 abstracts reviewed in this article. As for the consensus changing, my opponent is correct, that science does come to incorrect conclusions and theories are changed to meet the new information. Despite this, this not a coin flip situation. The probability is very high that the scientists are correct in their current assessment. That man-made global climate change is real. ""In the report I just showed about death rates from weather-related disasters, Indur M. Goklany goes into that exact study, and debunks it, saying that, ""Notably, the contribution of extreme events to the mortality burden for accidental causes of death is also small (at 0.4 percent)."" Saying that we need to double down on climate change because it is .4% of the reason for accidental deaths (Not even a full percentage) is quite ridiculous. Goklany also says that, ""Although the review paper""s estimates for non-flood related deaths are problematic, if one accepts them as valid, that means that climate change currently accounts for less than 0.3 percent of all global deaths. Accordingly, based on current contributions to the global mortality burden, other public health issues outrank climate change."" This furthers the point that cracking down on global warming for something so small is preposterous. But even putting the argument aside, it doesn't even fit in with what is supposed to be debated."" Repcon Even .2% of all global deaths would be a lot. Considering ""5.9 million children under age five died in 2015, 16 000 every day "" [17] .2% of 5.9 million might not seem like a lot percentage wise, yet the absolute number of 11, 800 children under five annually is still high. An analogy would be that homicides involving guns don't make up even the top ten list of all cause mortality. Still, people tend to get upset about these deaths. Furthermore, showing people died from a cause is a good way to show that cause exists. Humans care about each other. My opponent then delves into whether not a scientific consensus occurred. I find this part of the argument confusing and difficult to follow. The fact that my opponent used pastebin only further complicates the matter. My opponent claims that the true consensus number is .3% as opposed to 97.1%. I doubt science magazine missed up by such a large error or any of the other scholarly peer reviewed articles. ""Yes, because of the regulations being put on the fossil fuel industry by the government in an attempt to stop something that is naturally occurring. So this isn't a fault of the industry- it's the government that's implementing the regulations that would drive the industry to the ground. Like the article itself said,"" Repcon I can understand the fossil fuel industries objections, but the fossil fuel industry appears to spreading misinformation. Most likely you are in denial about man-made global climate change is due to this misinformation campaign. ""Again, this has NOTHING to do with what is supposed to be discussed. It doesn't prove that global warming is man made, so it shouldn't have been brought up in the first place."" Repcon I've already proven global climate change exists, I'm only showing why there are still deniers. ""First off, it is unknown if the Koch Brothers' donations led to any biases in research. As for the scientist who is claimed to be biased, his research is supported by data looking at the sun activity and temperature over the last 100 years [6], like I presented in my Round 2 argument. And if you're bringing up funding biases, you might as well bring up the fact that the government participates in the same thing."" Repcon Yes, but independent studies have also verified government research. ""An independent study of global temperature records has reaffirmed previous conclusions by climate scientists that global warming is real."" [19] ""Our energy policy is not rigged to help the oil industries. If anything, it's rigged AGAINST the fossil fuel industry. We have regulations that, as stated before, will destroy the fossil fuel industry,"" Repcon The oil industry seems to be just fine. Just the fact that they could lose 33 trililon dollars shows their wealth and influence. ""First off, there are no crimes committed, and you haven't provided a source to back it up. Second off, jailing climate deniers is unconstitutional. One reason is known as the first amendment, which grants freedom of speech [8]. Another reason is that the U.S. isn't a facist government, and pretty much goes against facism, so good luck trying to get deniers arrested. Nice try, though."" Repcon The climate change deniers are selling false information. They are committing fraud just for starters. ""Fraud must be proved by showing that the defendant's actions involved five separate elements: (1) a false statement of a material fact,(2) knowledge on the part of the defendant that the statement is untrue, (3) intent on the part of the defendant to deceive the alleged victim, (4) justifiable reliance by the alleged victim on the statement, and (5) injury to the alleged victim as a result."" [20] Number five, injury to the alleged victim as a result, many people die annually from anthropogenic climate change. This is fraud that results in the death of the victim. This is immoral. The first amendment does not protect criminals from commiting fraud. If anyone is the fascist here it is the fossil fuel industry. The poor get hit the hardest, minorities tend to be poorer. This could be seen as the mass murder of minorities on the fossil fuel industries part. Sources. 17. http://www.who.int... 18. https://skepticalscience.com... 19. http://www.cnn.com... 20. http://legal-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com..."	PRO	10
10	S5d920354-Aeae01f04	Global Warming is Real and is Manmade!	"I disagree with my opponent's assertion. The following information will prove that global warming is a false theory. 1. The 20th century warming of 1-1.4""F is within the +/- 5""F range of the past 3,000 years. A 2003 study by researchers at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics shows temperatures from 1000-1100 AD (before fossil fuel use) that are comparable to those from 1900-1990. 2. Rising CO2 levels are a result of global warming, not a cause of it. As temperatures increase, CO2 is released from ""carbon sinks"" such as the oceans or the Arctic tundra. Measurements of ice core samples show that over the last four climactic cycles (past 240,000 years) periods of global warming preceded global increases in CO2. 3. The increased hurricane activity over the past decade (1995-2005), including hurricane Katrina, is not the result of human-induced climate change; it is the result of cyclical tropical cyclone patterns, driven primarily by natural ocean currents, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's (NOAA) testimony in the US Senate on Sep. 20, 2005. 4. The general consensus that the earth has warmed during the 20th century is based upon flawed temperature measurements. These measurements, taken from surface monitoring stations set up by the National Weather Service (NWS), are often contaminated by the ""heat island effect."" According to a Mar. 2009 study published by the Heartland Institute, 89% of NWS monitoring stations are too close to artificial heat sources such as large asphalt parking lots, air conditioners, heaters and other sources of artificial heat. 5. Theories of naturally caused climate change are often ignored by ""mainstream"" scientists and organizations because many research scientists are more interested in maintainining the flow of federal grant money for climate change research than in questioning the basic theory of human causation. From 1998-2009, nearly $25 billion in federal funds was allocated for climate science research. Researchers who question human-induced climate change often do not receive grant money for research projects. Your turn. Sources: 1. Arthur B. Robinson, PhD, et al., ""Environmental Effects of Increased Atmospheric Carbon Dioxide"" (3 MB) , Journal of American Physicians and Surgeons, Fall 2007 2. Willie Soon, PhD, and Sallie Baliunas, PhD, ""Proxy Climatic and Environmental Changes of the Past 1000 Years"" (660 KB) , Climate Research, 2003 3. Anders Moberg, PhD, et al., ""Highly Variable Northern Hemisphere Temperatures Reconstructed From Low and High Resolution Proxy Data,"" Nature, Feb. 2005 I will have a more complete source list in the comments section."	CON	11
11	S61b46552-A3022f481	Anthropogenic global climate change.	"R2 Arguments A scientific consensus exists on the reality of anthropogenic climate change. "" But there is a scientific consensus on the reality of anthropogenic climate change. Climate scientists have repeatedly tried to make this clear. It is time for the rest of us to listen."" [1] Man-made climate change has already claimed human lives and continues to do so. ""in a general context where the anthropogenic contribution to climate change is becoming more plausible, led to an excess of 14,947 deaths in France, between August 4 and 18, 2003. The greatest increase in mortality was due to causes directly attributable to heat: dehydration, hyperthermia, heat stroke."" [2] ""The association between climate change and the frequency and intensity of extreme heat events is now well established. "" [3] ""The World Health Organisation estimates that the warming and precipitation trends due to anthropogenic climate change of the past 30years already claim over 150,000 lives annually. Many prevalent human diseases are linked to climate fluctuations, from cardiovascular mortality and respiratory illnesses due to heatwaves, to altered transmission of infectious diseases and malnutrition from crop failures."" [4] ""The consensus that humans are causing recent global warming is shared by 90%100% of publishing climate scientists according to six independent studies by co-authors of this paper. Those results are consistent with the 97% consensus reported by Cook et al "" [5] My argument is succinct and should prove that man-made climate change is extremely likely to exist. I will go a step further and explain why if there is so much scientific certainty,yet there is so much political uncertainty. This blame can be placed on the climate change denial movement funded by the fossil fuel industry. ""These organizations play a key role in the fossil fuel industry's ""disinformation playbook,"" a strategy designed to confuse the public about global warming and delay action on climate change. Why? Because the fossil fuel industry wants to sell more coal, oil, and gas even though the science clearly shows that the resulting carbon emissions threaten our planet."" [6] ""The fossil fuel industry risks losing $33 trillion in revenue over the next 25 years as global warming may drive companies to leave oil, natural gas and coal in the ground, according to a Barclays Plc energy analyst. Government regulations and other efforts to cut carbon emissions will inevitably slash demand for fossil fuels, jeopardizing traditional energy producers, Mark Lewis, Barclayss head of European utilities equity research, said Monday during a panel discussion in New York on financial risks from climate change. His comments are part of a growing chorus calling for more transparency from oil and gas companies about how their balance sheets may be affected by the global shift away from fossil fuels. As governments adopt stricter environmental policies, theres increasing risk that companies untapped deposits of oil, gas and coal may go unused, turning valuable reserves into stranded assets of questionable value. There will be lower demand for fossil fuels in the future, and by definition that means lower prices Lewis said."" [7] ""The Koch Brothers have sent at least $88,810,770 directly to 80 groups denying climate change science since 1997."" [8] ""Fossil fuel firms are still bankrolling climate denial lobby groups "" [9] ""One of the worlds most prominent climate researchers publishing scientific papers that doubt humanitys role in climate change has received at least $1.2 million from the fossil fuel industry to fund his research and salary, according to documents revealed this weekend. Wei-Hock Soon (known mainly as Willie) is aerospace engineer at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, and has written papers on how the suns role in the Earths climate outshines the warming impact of humans burning fossil fuels."" [10] ""Sheldon Whitehouse, a Democrat, represents Rhode Island in the Senate. Fossil fuel companies and their allies are funding a massive and sophisticated campaign to mislead the American people about the environmental harm caused by carbon pollution. Their activities are often compared to those of Big Tobacco denying the health dangers of smoking. Big Tobaccos denial scheme was ultimately found by a federal judge to have amounted to a racketeering enterprise."" [11] ""Right now, we have an energy policy that is rigged to boost the profits of big oil companies like Exxon, BP, and Shell at the expense of average Americans. CEOs are raking in record profits while climate change ravages our planet and our people  all because the wealthiest industry in the history of our planet has bribed politicians into complacency in the face of climate change. Enough is enough. Its time for a political revolution that takes on the fossil fuel billionaires, accelerates our transition to clean energy, and finally puts people before the profits of polluters.  Senator Bernie Sanders"" [12] The fossil fuel industry is a racketeering enterprise and must answer for their crimes. Fine the climate change deniers and/or jail them, the planet is at stake. Climate change will come down hardest on the poor. Sources: 1. http://science.sciencemag.org... 2. http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com... 3. http://dx.doi.org... 4. http://www.nature.com... 5. http://iopscience.iop.org... 6. http://www.ucsusa.org... 7. https://www.bloomberg.com... 8. http://www.greenpeace.org... 9. https://www.theguardian.com... 10. https://thinkprogress.org... 11. https://www.washingtonpost.com... 12. https://berniesanders.com..."	PRO	12
12	S29d685d9-A2fb20943	CO2 emissions are directly responsible for climate change.	"To conclude my case I would like to point out the obvious flaws in the opposition's previous case. They stated: ""Before I make my points, I would like to address the mistaken Negative. I do know that the topic is ""CO2 is the largest factor in global warming"", and that is what I am arguing. I'm sorry if that wasn't made clear in my evidence, but if you look back you will find that I certainly did argue that point. Your evidence was arguing against CO2 being the largest factor, and as your opponent that is what I must counter. Now that it's out of the way, let's begin."" Once again I correct the affirmative on the correct wording of the topic. The topic of this debate is that CO2 emissions are directly responsible for climate change. Throughout their entire case the affirmative seems to be referring to their fictional topic of: CO2 is the largest factor in global warming. The affirmative also stated that my evidence was backing this fictional topic. Whilst this may be true, proving that CO2 emissions are not the largest factor of global warming only adds to the overall proof that they are not directly responsible for the effects. To clear confusion, the definition of directly responsible is: without anyone or anything intervening. Whilst the affirmative continued to provide arguments proving the existence of CO2 emissions as the largest factor, they did not provide any points stating the absence of an intervention. There are many examples of other processes in our natural world that are speeding up the global warming. Some of these include methane emissions from cattle, deforestation and chemical fertilisers on crop lands. Although the affirmative believes that CO2 emissions play the largest role in heating the planet, they are not the sole reason behind the issue. If the impossible event of a CO2 emission cease occurred, the Earth would still be heating up. Slowly but surely, the effects of the Earth's orbit and the causes mentioned above will continue to heat the planet that we live on today. The affirmative also stated: ""the effects of the Suns rays on earth are increasing."" In theory, this phrase mentions the effects on sun rays on Earth. Incredulously, even these sun rays play a role in global warming and further diminish the affirmatives picture of CO2 emissions being directly responsible. In a surprising twist to the debate, the affirmative suddenly seems to understand the topic of the debate towards the end of their case and produces the statement below. Unfortunately, it is also flawed. ""CO2 was the initial cause of global warming, and this is shown in hundreds of studies and tests since that show the before and after the industrial revolution. The fact is, today CO2 is the largest factor and the cause, and I have all the sources to support it."" Cold hard evidence against the point brought up by the affirmative can be found in my first argument. Global warming is simply defined as increasing temperatures on our planet. Carbon dating and a myriad of other scientific tests show the heating and cooling of the planet well before the involvement of the Industrial Revolution. If the planet was heating up during Medieval periods, how can the affirmative say that CO2 is the cause of global warming when the people of the past had not even heard of the word carbon? In finality, I am not denying the fact that global warming exists. I am not denying that CO2 emissions play a considerable role in the heating of our planet. However, I do deny the views of the affirmative in thinking the CO2 emissions play a sole role in global warming. There are many other factors that are also contributing to the heating of our planet. In further expansion, I deny the politicians and organisational leaders within our world. The planet is heating up and it is effecting ecosystems and environments alike. Whilst we sit here and debate whether CO2 emissions are directly responsible, politicians all over the globe are doing the same. It is time to stop the debate and face the fact that although CO2 emissions have played a big role in global warming, the gradual heating of our planet is totally inevitable. As an international force we need to combat global warming and thus climate change by investigating new methods of adapting to a changing climate. Cooling down the Earth by reducing CO2 emissions is a false statement because the Earth will continue to heat via its natural cycles which we as humans would be wrong to alter. As the negative side, I strongly believe that CO2 emissions are not directly responsible for climate change. Thank you."	CON	13
13	Sc09112b2-A1a3d1579	Humanity is the main cause of global warming.	Firstly. I have not quantified anything in the heading of the debate. I've said 'main cause'. Not 'more than fifty percent' or somethinglike that. Main means a major portion. Since when did 'substantially' get used for a small portion? And it is also not my possible (to my knowledge) to quantify the impact of natural causes on climate change as it is unpredictable and can change any time. Con has also left out my point that human activities can alter the natural conditions of the earth, therefore any change in temperature due to natural causes could have a human factor behind it. As explained in the following. http://co2now.org... Secondly, I never said natural causes play an insignificant role. I said they play an important role but not as important as human causes. In con's reference chart, the temperature has been constantly oscillating between hot and cold, but if you check recent years there have been almost two constant hot periods and the cold period is almost invisible ( in the graph I mean) meaning it is very short. And then in the graph itself it clear that the hot periods have been on the rise since the Age of Induatrialization. And after 2015, the cold period is based on assumptions and predictions, and as I have already made clear that nature cannot always be predicted. Thirdly Global Warming is a reality. Just because there have hotter periods before, doesn't mean it is not happening. The following site also explains that the global warming hiatus in recent times is not true. And that climate only causes short term changes in the climate of the earth, but human activity causes long term changes. http://www.bbc.com... Fourthly scientists will not quanitfy and agree that mankind is responsible for global warming, as it is their community that are primary responsible (in humans). But I will not defame them as some ARE trying their best to prove it. Fifthly , again I refer to the chart provided by Con, the hot periods have gradually developed over a period of time, but in recent years its almost at a right angle. Which means there have been sharp and quick increase in the heat all over the globe.	PRO	14
14	S61b46552-A351e7efc	Anthropogenic global climate change.	"Studies Contradict Man Made Warming Anthropogenic climate change is not real. Yes, the climate changes, but humans aren't the cause of it. A study by the biology cabinet shows no relationship between CO2 and temperature [1]. ""On this assessment, the evidence points to a current natural climate change which happens sequentially in two main climate periods, icehouse and warmhouse."" Another study was found on the Vostok ice cores, which show temperature records going back over 400,000 years. Data from the ice cores reveal an 800 year lag of CO2 behind temperature [2], meaning CO2 changes came AFTER temperature. If climate change was man made, then temperature would lag behind CO2, but the opposite happens, which proves that CO2 cannot influence temperature. The ice cores also show that the temperature rose to about the same level whenever it rose significantly, which shows that it is a constant cycle and not affected by human activities. The same can be said about the CO2 levels. Manipulation by Scientists and Bribing by the Government One of the biggest science scandals, Climategate, occurred in 2009. Hackers stole emails from scientists at the East Angelia Climatic Research Unit, and statements from the emails contradict anthropogenic climate change. [3]. ""The fact is that we can't account for the lack of warming at the moment and it is a travesty that we can't... Our observing system is inadequate"" [4]. ""I've just completed Mike's Nature trick of adding in the real temps to each series for the last 20 years (ie from 1981 onwards) and from 1961 for Keith's to hide the decline."" [4]. The government as well as a variety of foundations donate billions of dollars to scientists to prove global warming is man made and to groups that put a megaphone to the global warming agenda. [5] This bias completely destroys the point of researching issues like climate change. Research isn't supposed to be ""Let's try to prove our political agenda."". It's supposed to be a non partisan look into an issue affecting our lives. How can we accept something as a fact if the people researching the issue are lying to us. The Evidence Outside our Planet One interesting thing about the warming is that it doesn't just affect Earth. Mars, Triton (Neptune's moon), Pluto, and Jupiter are all experiencing warming. But I want to focus more on Mars, since in our solar system, Mars is the most similar planet to Earth. Both have roughly the same length of day and rotation axis [6]. Its atmosphere consists of 95% CO2 [7], and is seen to be warming. In fact, Mars warmed .65 degrees Celsius in 20 years (1975-1995) [8], whereas Earth took 32 years to warm .65 degrees Celsius (from 1975 to 2007) [9]. Even though Mars' atmosphere is 95% CO2, it is still less than the amount on Earth. Environment scientist at Wright State University Jim Milks showed how the math plays out [10]. ""The total mass of CO2 in the Martian atmosphere is 95.32% volume x (44.0095/43.34) = 96.79% by mass CO2 96.79% mass x 2.5 x 1016 kg = 2.383 x 10^16 kg CO2 The equivalent calculation for Earth is Earth: Total atmosphere mass: 5.1 x 1018 kg Mean molecular mass of atmosphere: 28.97 g/mole % volume CO2: 0.04% 0.04% volume x (44.0095/28.97) = 0.0608% mass CO2 0.0608% mass x 5.1 x 1018 kg = 3.101 x 10^17 kg CO2 Last time I checked, 3.101 x 1017 kg is larger than 2.383 x 1016 kg by over 13x."" So what could be the cause of the global warming? I believe the sun is the one responsible, as correlations between the sun and the Earth's temperature have been found when studying temperature and sun levels from 1880-1980 [11], and 1980-2006 [12]. This could also explain why other planets in our solar system are warming, as all the planets rely on the Sun. But at the end of the day, the warming is NOT caused by CO2. Sources [1]-http://www.biocab.org... [2]-http://joannenova.com.au... and also http://cdiac.ornl.gov... [3]-https://wikileaks.org... [4]-http://pastebin.com... (Screen shots of emails)* and also http://www.justfacts.com... [5]-http://www.nationalreview.com... and also http://www.forbes.com... [6]-http://curious.astro.cornell.edu... [7]-http://nssdc.gsfc.nasa.gov... [8]-http://news.nationalgeographic.com... [9]-http://climate.nasa.gov... [10]-http://environmentalforest.blogspot.com... [11]-http://www.tmgnow.com... [12]-http://www.biocab.org... *The emails were only available from downloading, and taking screen shots of the emails are the easiest way to show the emails."	CON	15
15	S7852a724-A532aa088	Global Warming is likely impacted by humans.	Thank you for that last round. 1. While a rise in global temperature is undeniable, I disagree that the greenhouse effect is the cause. I repeat my original point that the recent warming of the Earth has to do with solar cycles and that a 2013 study proved that the rising global temperatures that have been observed in the 20th century are similar to those observed around the 11th century [2], and the recent rise in global temperature are within the borders of the natural temperature variations that have been recorded within the past 3,000 years [2]. Additionally, to address your point concerning the declining Arctic sea, it's true that it was slowly descending, but since 2012, Arctic ice has gone up by 50% [4]. Even the increase between 2012 and 2013 was visibly significant [5]. This increase is equally as important as the decrease. I again repeat my original point concerning receding glaciers. They have been growing and receding for thousands of years due to natural causes [2], and the recently receding glaciers in Antarctica were due to atmospheric circulation changes, which is the large scale movement of air [3]. 2. My opponent has argued that 97% of scientists believe that global warming is due to human activities. However this is not entirely true. David Henderson went through everything that Cook et all claimed and found that only 64 out of the 11,944 scientists that were examined claimed explicitly that global warming was a cause of humans. This number brings the 97% down to 1.6% [1, 2]. Here is Hendersons list providing all the numbers: While the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change believes that human activities have caused global warming, there are still many scientists who disagree. In 2010, a report by Climate Depot claimed that over 1,000 scientists (many of which were form UN IPCC scientists) disagreed that humans are primarily responsible for global climate change [2]. Again, in 2014, 15 scientists declared that the US National Climate Assessments declaration of human caused climate change to be NOT true [2]. Conclusion: It remains that many scientists agree that global warming exists only as a solar cycle and is not caused by human activities. Thank you for reading! Sources: 1. http://econlog.econlib.org... 2. http://climatechange.procon.org... 3. https://en.wikipedia.org... 4. http://townhall.com... 5. http://www.orthodoxytoday.org...	CON	16
16	Sc09112b2-Ad7e05475	Humanity is the main cause of global warming.	"The word 'main' as used in the debate heading presents the position that humanity's contribution to global warming is greater in magnitude than any other factor. The definition of 'main' could be explained as: chief or principal in rank, importance, size, etc. Therefore, Pro must prove that the human portion is in fact the largest of factors. Of course, the human portion needn't be greater than 50% of the total effect if there are multiple elements/factors at play. I also agree that it is more than possible that human activities could affect, change or initiate natural processes, but again, that would have to be quantified (what portion of a natural system has been altered by human elements versus natural change). Natural and human effect can be intertwined and extremely complicated, if not impossible to differentiate and separate. This is referred to as the ""attribution of recent climate change"". I will reference the following scholarly article: https://gfdl.noaa.gov... ""Detection and Attribution of Recent Climate Change: A Status Report"". The authors make several important conclusions in this comprehensive study: ""Greenhouse warming alone is insufficient to explain the observed pattern of climate change."" and ""The most probable cause of the observed warming is a combination of internally and externally forced natural variability and anthropogenic sources (see also Tett et al. 1999). But given the large model uncertainties and limited data, a reliable weighting of the different factors contributing to the observed climate change cannot currently be given. In short, we cannot attribute, at this time, with a high level of statistical significance, the observed changes in global and large-scale regional climate to anthropogenic forcing alone."". This research contradicts Pro's assertion that human causes are definitively more important than natural ones. In addition, to say that our current warming trend was caused solely by the industrial age based on the chart I presented (in round 3) would be to dismiss the fact that the sharp rebound from the Little Ice Age and commencement of our current warming trend (1600-) was initiated and occurred well before human activity was a relevant factor. I agree with much of the content contained within the two sites referenced by pro, but none of them contains information that establishes that human activity plays a greater role than natural variability. The CO2 now website asserts that ""The human impact on climate during this era greatly exceeds that due to known changes in natural processes, such as solar changes and volcanic eruptions."" and lists several of the unique contributions and circumstances associated with human activity and greenhouse gasses. It also states that ""the radiative forcing from human activities is much more important for current and future climate change than the estimated radiative forcing from changes in natural processes."" These are grand statements, but there is no attempt to quantify them unlike the formal research document I presented above (which contradicts these sites). There is also no mention on Pro's sites of the fact that our current warming period was initiated well before the industrial age and human influence by natural forces. Even the IPCC continues to protect its reputation by using vague terms such as ""...likely"" regarding the position of humanity's ""...dominant role in global warming"". I acknowledge that we currently are experiencing global warming. For those who lived in 1100 BC and 1300 AD, they also experienced global warming on a larger scale than we do today, even though human activity had little correlation to that warming. Thus, to say that Global Warming is unique to the industrial age is false. It is also very likely that scientists will one day be able to prove/quantify what portion of Human Activity is attributable to global warming. Presently, it is not possible as my opponent acknowledges. This is why no scientist(s) or scientific body has declared a victory on this issue (A quantified attribution of recent climate change). In fact, a very large amount of money and large amount of research continues to be spent on this very issue because it has yet to be proved or resolved. I also agree that the current warming period presented on the on the chart I referenced is abrupt and is likely a reflection of the influence of human activity. Being that this warming period has yet to exceed several recent warming periods in effect and duration, we need more time in order to be able to place our current warming period into the context of other prior larger warming periods. It is simply premature to state definitively that human activity is the main factor in global warming. My statement is reflected in the current feverish rate of research being performed into the Attribution of Recent Climate Change. If a definitive conclusion had been reached, this research would not be needed to such a degree. Keep in mind, that I am not advocating that humanity should not take responsibility towards reducing our greenhouse gas emissions; quite the contrary."	CON	17
17	S842a72c1-Aa74a1945	Climate Shift	"Pro's framework is not relevant. Pro is debating 3 different issues in such a way as to lead the audience into automatic acceptance of the core issue ""is global warming aka climate shift man made"" Point A: we have had fossil evidence of an ice age for ages, and the fact that we aren't currently living on a frozen planet is evidence enough for global warming to have existed long before man was capable of producing enough GHG emissions to significantly alter the environment. The ""Resolved: climate shift is real"" frame is obvious to anyone who has heard of the wooly mammoth. Point B: Climate Shift is influenced by man. This is the only real point to debate and the scientific consensus was misrepresented by Pro from the outset. 97% of scientists can not agree if a majority of 66% of them haven't taken a stance on the issue. Pro is cherry picking his statistics. I sourced this properly whereas Pro provided a list of websites he gleamed information from without actually linking to the relevant articles within those sites to be reviewed. The laundry list of ""predicted effects of global warming"" that pro provided aren't relevant to the core issue of ""is climate change man made"". Its fear mongering and shouldn't be considered in a debate. Point C: there is no point C. Obviously climate change should be a concern for humanity regardless of whether or not it was caused by the actions of mankind. This is an appeal to emotions intended to influencing the voters. I hope the voters can see thru this laundry list of predictions presented by Pro. The only relevant paragraph in his whole argument was sub-point 2 concerning GHG emissions. Which is compelling but lacks depth since there are many other factors determining climate shift. GHG emissions only explain warming trends, solar activity and thermal storage in the oceans are presumably responsible for cooling trends. Feel free to fault me for breaking the instigator's framework so long as you fault the instigator for setting up a poor framework."	CON	18
18	Sa80b0a3-A4c9830d7	Resolved: Human Activity Is a Significant Factor in Global Warming on Planet Earth.	"Thanks to my opponent for such a great debate! Counter-rebuttals ==Counter 1: Contradiction?== My opponent asserts that my glacial, sea level and temperature figures are contradictory. He never considers the fact that there were sudden but brief drops in temperature near to the increase in ice, which both his and my figures agree upon. I don't agree with the way my opponent presents why the amount of ice on Earth is increasing. More glaciers =/= more ice. Simply because there are more glaciers being observed doesn't mean the *amount* of ice is increasing. Don't count on trusting the use of his graph, because it is in a way irrelevant to what we are trying to discuss on this contention. ==Counter 2: Hiatus== [Remember: The hiatus is said to have happened in more recent years, so more recent data can be cited.] Con tries to save his argument by stating that I made an appeal to authority to newness, and assumes that it is ""not a rational reason at all"". So what is he implying here? Is he implying that we should trust older methodologies simply because I supposedly committed one logical fallacy that isn't even that much of a negative effect? So far, that's the only basis he has for his argument, and the reason why we can't accept his basis in this case is because it is simply common sense. In most, if not all debates, we are inclined to use the newest and most updated sources, thus more trustworthy sources. We shouldn't try to attack the sources of others simply because it is ""an appeal to the authority of newness"", because it isn't - it's just common sense. Where his argument is relevant is interesting, because he seems to not know which one is right or wrong. Even so, the graphs would *still* support my argument. Con doesn't even know if either of them ACTUALLY ARE right or wrong. And with the huge consensus and observed evidence supporting it, the answer leans way towards the Pro stance [1-3]: ==Counter 3: Correlation vs. Causation== Here my opponent essentially nitpicks the slightest flaws in correlation and claims these flaws are deciding factors. First of all, there isn't even supposed to be a direct correlation between CO2 and sea levels - they are FAR from correlating to each other. The CO2 is emitted, then temperature rises, then ice melts, THEN sea levels rise. You can't expect a perfect correlation when they are that far away from each other. Secondly, why must it correlate so perfectly? If they correlate and they are reasonably close, then what does it matter? ==Counter 4: Solar Activity== I am shocked that my opponent has assumed that I made an unsupported assumption, *when it is undeniably clear I made a citation supporting my argument.* Let me repeat that. Clearly. And why would we need data from prior to the alleged increase when this is simply logic and facts? The reasoning I had given *perfectly* fits with the scenario being discussed. But if my opponent still isn't happy about that, then I'll explain why it is still null. The warming on Earth is known as global warming. Warming means steady temperature increase. Key word: temperature. So if temperature increasing means pan evapoation is increasing, then why is temperature almost universally agreed to be increasing yet there seems to be no trend in figure 11 for pan evaporation? Obviously this doesn't make sense. So is that figure very trustworthy? The answer: probably not. Also, just to top it off, figures agree that the increase is solely due to human effects [4]: ==Counter 5: Dust Bowl== My opponent continues to not give me a valid reason for the decrease in the median. Of course, he did talk about the droughts and terrible heat waves, but since when did we find out that the aftermath of heat waves would be sudden and big cooling worldwide? And yes, Con did provide extensive explanations about methodological bias, but that wasn't the only thing that caused figures to show a sudden cooling. The other thing was the fact that humans started to use more sulphate aerosols, which cool the Earth [5]. So Con has yet to come up with another reason for the decrease. ==Counter 6: Feedbacks and forcings== I apologize for this contention - somehow it got cut out. I will not present the previous graphs, but rather build onto it. So far, we can conclude that positive feedbacks dominate climate and thus amplify the effect of forcings significantly. Climate sensitivity is essential in climate science - it is the rise of equilibrium global land-sea mean temperature each time CO2 concentration is doubled [6]. ""It is defined simply as the global mean warming that is reached in equilibrium (that is, after a long time) after doubling the CO2 concentration in the atmosphere."" - Anthropogenic Climate Change: Revisiting the facts [6] With feedbacks, climate sensitivity is about 3 degrees Celcius [7]: The increasing CO2 emissions are predominantly anthropogenic. Combine the forcings increase with the feedback amplification, and you get increasing temperature caused by humans. My opponent seems to not be able to respond to the planets contention, so I will allow them to respond in their next arguments. ==Conclusion== Con fails to disprove the evidence I have put forward, making assumptions that are difficult, if not impossible to justify. Thus, I affirm. ==Sources== [1] http://www.skepticalscience.com... [2] http://www.skepticalscience.com... [3] http://warmgloblog.blogspot.com... [4] http://www.alternet.org... [5] https://www.skepticalscience.com... [6] http://www.pik-potsdam.de...(p. 4) [7] http://www.skepticalscience.com... I await my opponent's arguments!"	PRO	19
19	S7852a724-Abde99784	Global Warming is likely impacted by humans.	"I'm arguing that global climate change is not impacted by humans. My reasons for believing this are as follows: 1. Earth's climate has often warmed and cooled, and the recent rise in global temperature is within the borders of the natural temperature variations that have been recorded within the past 3,000 years. A study from 2013 claimed that the rising global temperatures that have been observed in the 20th century are similar to those observed around the 11th century. 2. Changes in global temperature are generally due to variations in the sun's heat, not by human activity. The majority of the observed climate changes between the 20th and 21st centuries has corresponded with multiple solar cycles. In 2012 it was discovered that there was a strong correlation between solar radiation and temperatures in the Arctic, not by human activity. 3. The receding glaciers are not a result of human activity, but rather have been growing and receding for thousands of years due to natural causes. A 2014 study of over 2,000 glaciers in the Himalayas proved that 86.6% of the glaciers were not receding. Another study claimed that receding glaciers in Antarctica were due to ""atmospheric circulation changes"" that caused West Antarctica to warm rapidly. 4. CO2 is not the cause. In 2003, a study showed that over the past four climactic cycles (which have occurred during the past 240,000 years) warming has not followed, but rather preceded, a rise of CO2. Of the CO2 that humans have produced between 2002-2011, about 50% has been re-absorbed by earth's ""carbon sinks."" Within the past 16 years there has been an 8% increase in atmospheric CO2, and still the earth has not warmed significantly. http://climatechange.procon.org..."	CON	20
20	S29d685d9-A82d92fc9	CO2 emissions are directly responsible for climate change.	"Before I make my points, I would like to address the mistaken Negative. I do know that the topic is ""CO2 is the largest factor in global warming"", and that is what I am arguing. I'm sorry if that wasn't made clear in my evidence, but if you look back you will find that I certainly did argue that point. Your evidence was arguing against CO2 being the largest factor, and as your opponent that is what I must counter. Now that it's out of the way, let's begin. Negative thinks I only believe CO2 is speeding up the process of climate change. It most definitely is, and they are not mistaken in that. But not only is it speeding up and forcing climate change to continue, it is the main factor in this. No matter what my opponent may think, my evidence clearly showed CO2 is the largest threat. Greenhouse gases are proven to be the largest contributor to global warming, and CO2 is the largest greenhouse gas. And according to the World Meteorological Organization, the US Environmental Protection Agency, NASA, the European Commission and thousands of scientists, CO2 is the largest factor. Negative may say that fluctuations in the earths orbit are the largest cause. To say that fluctuations in earths orbit are the largest cause is a bold statement. I think that by orbit fluctuations, he means that it causes Suns rays to hit the earth more. But according to NASA, solar maxima is only .1 percent higher than solar minima on average. To further my counter argument, if there had been an increase in solar output, both the stratosphere and troposphere would have warmed up. But instead, patterns show that the stratosphere has actually cooled. Meanwhile, land and the troposphere have been warming, which is no doubt due to greenhouse gases (particularly CO2). This shows that fluctuations in earths orbit, although drastically climate changing when they occur, are not occurring right now. However, the effects of the Suns rays on earth are increasing. Not because of orbit fluctuation, but because of greenhouse gases that trap the Suns heat. CO2 is directly responsible for global warming today. In the earlier graph, I showed how carbon emissions have increased drastically since the industrial revolution. I then linked a graph that showed temperature increase over the same time period. The fact is, since the industrial revolution, temperatures have drastically increased at a rate that would never have occurred without coal burning and that whole era. So CO2 emission IS directly responsible for global warming. The negative, in their conclusion, called my points invalid. I say the exact opposite. I stand by my points, and the facts that went with it. I most surely do not agree that their case is correct. I have just shown why their case is completely wrong. CO2 was the initial cause of global warming, and this is shown in hundreds of studies and tests since that show the before and after the industrial revolution. The fact is, today CO2 is the largest factor and the cause, and I have all the sources to support it. Sources: http://earthobservatory.nasa.gov... And sources I cited earlier."	PRO	21
21	Sdc9f0311-Ac43c77c0	There is no anthropomorphic global warming	"""one can prove and have proven that co2 can act as a green house gas and can theoretically warm the planet."" Not theoretically. It does. Basic physics as outlined in R2 and R2. ""Where I disagree is that co2 has been proven to be the cause of global warming"" No one climate scientist states that it is. It would be great if you actually read my rounds. It is one part of many.This goes back to my R1 statement of merely saying it is not true, is not good enough. ""I do not think though that it has been proven that it raises temperatures significantly."" Again, it is in conjunction with the other climate change factors. ""Even in your 'runaway' co2 warming hypothesis, there is not evidence that co2 causes additional warming. The co2 is the effect, not the cause of warming."" Firstly, my ""runaway warming hypothesis"" was in reference to ice age warming (the previous paragraphs) secondly and this refers to you reading again, I have stated several times that CO2 and temperature have been shown to act on each other. CO2 causes temperature rises; temperature rises in turn increase CO2. ""The researchers estimate that this effect could cut by two-thirds the projected increase in global temperatures initiated by a doubling of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. How do you know that increasing co2 didn't 'cause' this vent to work?"" How do you know it did? What is inherent in CO2 that it can create a seabed vent? Merely postulating it as such does not give the notion any more validity. To actually make your point (the article is 2001) you have 7 years of data to show (1) correlatory evidence (2) Physical evidence i.e CO2 increase caused by said vent. You have not. ""Not to mention our minimal knowledge of cloud formation."" Yours maybe, less so those that dedicate their careers to such things. ""And I do not agree with your contention that solar variability is irrelevent:"" And I do not take my evidence from a blogger. The articles author that the blog uses is a self informed i.e. non professional climate modeller. Now for evidence i.e. scientific as opposed to the, I can surf the internet, sort of your blogger. There is no evidence of a link between cosmic rays and warming temperatures on Earth. ""A decrease in the globally averaged low level cloud cover, deduced from the ISCCP infrared data, as the cosmic ray intensity decreased during the solar cycle 22 was observed by two groups. The groups went on to hypothesize that the decrease in ionization due to cosmic rays causes the decrease in cloud cover, thereby explaining a large part of the currently observed global warming. We have examined this hypothesis to look for evidence to corroborate it. None has been found and so our conclusions are to doubt it."" http://www.iop.org... Cosmic rays are energetic particles from space that travel at near the speeds of light when they hit the atmosphere. They are redirected toward the Earth by the Sun and some have claimed that changes in solar activity deflect varying amounts of cosmic rays towards us. A favourite theory among climate sceptics is that the rays are responsible for boosting the formation of clouds, which in turn could be warming the planet. ""finding no evidence of a link between the ionizing cosmic rays and the production of low cloud cover"" http://domino.lancs.ac.uk... So no, it is not solar, or cloud formation as you propose. ""not wholly discounted by the IPCC and climate modellers"" So I think we can safely say that said climate modellers are sceptics and not actual climate modellers in the scientific sense it is used. I think we can also safely say the name drop IPCC is there purely because I gave you a link to their site. Actually showing where they say so would be great, unless, clearly, they do not say such things. :) Which brings us to the end of your arguments, and the rather glaring fact that you have done absolutely nothing to show that my proof is wrong in any real scientific evidential sense. ""Global atmospheric concentrations of carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide have increased markedly as a result of human activities since 1750 and now far exceed pre-industrial values determined from ice cores spanning many thousands of years. The global increases in carbon dioxide concentration are due primarily to fossil fuel use and land-use change, while those of methane and nitrous oxide are primarily due to agriculture."" (IPCC Report on Climate Change: 2007) Feel free to read the report summary http://media.newscientist.com..."	CON	22
22	S422c0992-A86b205fa	Climate Change is driven by human CO2 emissions	"Good morning ladies and gentlemen, and welcome once again to our debate! I deeply apologize (as said in the comments section of this debate) for posting my opening arguments when Mr. Adams clearly said that first round is for acceptance. I hope the audience doesn't vote against me for this, as I am hoping to offer a fruit debating, and learning experience with Mr. Adams here today. I would also like to thank Mr. Adams for acknowledging this in his last round and wish him luck in further rounds of this debate! :D REBUTTALS To begin, I would like to clarify a few definitions in order to make a lot of the previous round make sense. Correlations: Statistics-the degree to which two or more attributes or measurements on the same group of elements show a tendency to vary together. http://dictionary.reference.com... In this specifically we are talking about how much influence C02 Emissions have an effect on our global climate change. "" So, what is the CO2 correlation? Not surprisingly, it is under the .5 marks. But if CO2 was the main driver of climate, it should have a fairly high correlation, shouldn'tt it? Its impossible for something to have a causation effect if it has no correlation."" I am going to argue, to the full effect, that any correlation found in C02 emissions is harmful. My job as the Pro stated in the opening round, is to prove that CO2 emissions cause global warming. Period. My opponent admits in his own arguments that some correlation between climate change and C02 emissions does occur. Technically, this is all I need to win the debate. It seems that we can't deny that climate change is effected directly by C02 emissions. ""data from respected scientists that point to a correlation between CO2 levels and temperature rises over the past 800,000 years. Similarly, advocates for the contrary argument of solar variation causing climate change rely on data that points to correlations between solar activity and changes in temperature. In both cases, correlations exist;"" http://www.nowpublic.com... ""Correlations for other factors, though, seem a lot more promising. The correlation with the solar irradiance shows a much better correlation then CO2. Its correlation to surface temperatures is relatively strong, .57 (r = 0.57). This means the correlation is rated between fair and good "" The problem I have with this is that this argument stems global warming from natural causes, where as clearly you are advocating warming is caused by human emissions. Again, my goal here is to prove that C02 in correlation to human emissions of C02, adversely effect the climate in some way. Even then, all I have to prove is the C02 emissions provide global harms. ""The scientific paper then examines data within the last ten years, the results? A CO2 correlation is no match at all. The correlation is only 0.02. (r = 0.02). IF CO2 was the main driver of climate, then why isnt the correlation higher in the past century, and so low within the last decade?"" I do have a problem with this information as it seems to be un backed by any source of logical entity. In fact I looked up the source my opponent cited, and found this on C02 emissions effecting global climate changes. The result is striking to say the least. This information is cited in the source by the carbon dioxide information analysis center. http://cdiac.ornl.gov... No matter how much my opponent would like to deny the information presented, the stats speak for themselves. Global warming IS a problem, and C02 Emissions, whether man made or natural made, are contributing. The entire point to this rebuttal is no matter how much C02 emissions effect the climate, my job is to prove that they do in fact, effect the climate. My opponent provides plenty of information from a source that seems to have a questionable logical entity. I have conflicting results to his r2= .44 theory from Government sites. It seems Mr. Adams entire argument here prays on the validity of the source. But even then, the source strictly contradicts his goal in this debate! I thus ask the readers to deem this argument irrelevant. OTHER FACTORS Again we are seeing another completely irrelevant argument. The entire point of this argument from my opponent is to prove that their are other causes to global warming, and that the position of the galaxy is a leading cause. I agree that there are other causes for global warming. In fact, if my opponent were to clarify in the opening round that I would be arguing purely that C02 emissions were the ONLY cause for global warming, I myself would not have accepted this debate. Thus I ask my opponent and the audience what the point to this argument is. I have no rebuttals to it, because I agree with it! But absolutely NOTHING in this argument, argues anything to do with lack of C02 being a prime factor in global warming. Moving on. Conclusion I am concerned as to my opponents motives in this debate. I offer him the utmost respect when I say this: pretty much the entire case is just a bunch of thrown around sources and graphs, mixed in with irrelevant arguments. I honestly have no clue where he was planning on going with his previous arguments. None the less, feel I have upheld my burden in this debate. My burden is to prove that C02 has an effect on climate change. I have the burden of proof, and have fulfilled that burden of proof several times throughout the debate. I can find hundreds more sources that go to prove my point, and so can anyone else by simply Google searching the subject. But in order to get the most accurate information, I have cited 2 government cites, just to be sure that the information presented isn't faulty. On the other hand, my opponent has won this debate for me! His sources, his arguments, they all say that C02 has an effect on climate change. While we have dis-parraging results from each other, nonetheless, my opponent cannot admit that even C02 alone wouldn't cause an adverse effect on the climate, say 100 years ago. Even with his arguments being taken for face value, we can assume that in thousands of years, global warming can and will occur simply from C02 effects on the atmosphere. I thank my opponent for responding, and look forward to the next arguments. Thankyou for reading audience!"	PRO	23
23	Sa80b0a3-Ae6687595	Resolved: Human Activity Is a Significant Factor in Global Warming on Planet Earth.	"Thanks to my opponent! Reading their arguments I can see this will be a great debate! I'd like to remind my opponent that although this is a rebuttal round, per the rules, new arguments can still be made. Also, there was a problem with my sources in the previous round. I will present them again: [1] http://climate.nasa.gov... [2] [3] http://climate.nasa.gov... [4] http://climate.nasa.gov... [5] http://data.giss.nasa.gov... [6] http://earthguide.ucsd.edu... [7] http://climate.nasa.gov... [8] http://scienceline.ucsb.edu... [9] http://www.forbes.com... [10] http://www.nasa.gov... [11] http://www.nasa.gov... [12] Rebuttals ==Rebuttal 1: To doubt =/= To refute== My opponent's first argument poses a few flaws. First of all, the new figure that has been presented has *barely changed* looking at the more recent years of the graph. Also, the change at the start of the graph is a difference of what seems to be less than 0.2 degrees Celcius, which doesn't even change the fact that the warming is significant. But that isn't the point. The point is the question of what to trust. ""Now this claim that the pause doesn't exist poses a problem because a few years ago the claim was that the pause was caused by about 17 volcanoes back as little as 2014. So which is it? Does the pause exist, and was caused by Volcanoes, or does the pause not exist, and was caused by weighting issues in the data? Any reasonable person should now have some doubt in the basic data claims of global warming for a basic contradiction."" - My opponent While I can agree that this may pose doubt, I can also ask the audience to *turn* this argument, because more recent updates are and should be seen as more trustworthy, no matter how close they are. Therefore, my opponent's argument here only proves that there was no hiatus and the doubt should be cast on the 2014 update. Finally, I will stress this as much as I can: *This doesn't refute the notion that humans are a significant cause of global warming, because so far it only focuses on temperatures instead of causation.* ==Rebuttal 2: Methodology Bias== There is no doubt that methodologies change throughout the course of time, as we advance with new technology. However, shouldn't it be safer to trust more modern methods rather than outdated ones? A lot of my opponent's part 2, 3 and 4 arguments are based solely off the fact that methodologies change, rather than addressing the fact that new methodologies can be used to update old figures, as was done with NASA's figure. Another version of figure 6 in my opponent's round can be seen here [1]: s://www.ncdc.noaa.gov...; alt=""Graph showing no slow down in global warming"" /> What really matters is what my opponent says about his GHCN analysis of the high monthly average delta graph. He claims that the cooling period might explain why figures 4 and 5 start at a certain point. But there wasn't any major increase trend in ice even before the 70's [2]: ""Globally glaciers are losing ice at an extensive rate (Figure 1). There are still situations in which glaciers gain or lose ice more than typical for one region or another but the long term trends are all the same, and about 90% of glaciers are shrinking worldwide (Figure 2)."" - Skeptical Science [2] Sea levels have also been rising since the 1800's [3]: ""A variety of different measurements find steadily rising sea levels over the past century."" - Skeptical Science [3] The most important part is where my opponent claims that the trend is almost nothing and can't be used for future predictions. This graph closely resembles the one found here [4]: This figure was created from the actual temperature rise graphs from choosing the most actively reporting stations. Unfortunately, my opponent never gives a reason as to why there was a cooling in 1945 - 1970. The reason to this is actually one of my opponent's arguments: methodologies changed right at that time. This would imply that graphed temperatures rapidly changed, and in this case, dropped. [5] Not only that, but the cooling was actually due to sulphate aerosols being released into the atmosphere [5]. Sulphate aerosols reflect solar energy back into space. This was not only caused by humans releasing such aerosols, but also by volcanic eruptions [5]. The greenhouse effect would start dominating climate again in the 70s, and the rapid warming has continued until today [5]. Therefore, rather than arguing we are not a cause of either, we should be discussing that we are the cause of both, and that the cooling was just a temporary decline. ==Rebuttal 3: Is The Cause Solar Output?== The crux of my opponent's argument here is that pan evaporation correlates more with solar activity, and that the sudden increase would be because of a rip in the Northern Pole, weaking the Earth's magnetic field. We both agree that the sun's activity has remained quite constant in recent history. However, if the sudden warming were due to this rip, we can logically conclude that the atmosphere would be warmer within all layers as would happen with a situation where the sun actually increased in activity [6]. However, we have actually seen ""a cooling in the upper atmosphere, and a warming at the surface and in the lower parts of the atmosphere. That's because greenhouse gasses are trapping heat in the lower atmosphere."" - NASA [6] Therefore, my opponent's arguments are null. New contentions ==Contention 4: Positive feedbacks strengthen forcings== Forcings are factors that ""force"" climate to change. Feedbacks are factors that amplify or diminish the effect of forcings. Because positive feedbacks dominate climate, the effect of forcings are significantly amplified [7]: ==Conclusion== The evidence I have put out proves my opponent's arguments null and even contradicting as some of his data does not consider other factors. Therefore, so far a conclusion can be made that human effects do play a big part in global warming. ==Sources== [1] https://www.ncdc.noaa.gov... [2] http://www.skepticalscience.com... [3] http://www.skepticalscience.com... [4] http://wattsupwiththat.com... [5] https://www.skepticalscience.com... [6] http://climate.nasa.gov... [7] http://www.nasa.gov... To Con!"	PRO	24
24	Se62a5fda-A7a0b656e	Official May Tournament Final: Global Warming	C1) Positive feedbacks dominate climate Carbon dioxide has a significant influence on global land-sea mean temperature. All scientists agree that CO2 has some direct effect, increasing temperature by 1.1 degrees Celsius per doubling of CO2 concentration in the atmosphere. David Evans argues, Most serious skeptical scientists have always agreed with the government climate scientists about the direct effect of CO2. The argument is entirely about the feedbacks. [1] Climate sensitivity is the key point in all of climate science. The term climate sensitivity refers to -- in this context -- the rise in equilibrium global land-sea mean temperature per doubling of the concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere [2]. A 2005 study by Nir Joseph Shaviv confirms that the climate sensitivity, without any amplification, is 1.1 degrees Celsius [3]. Most serious scientists agree. The argument, as Evans argues, is about the feedbacks. What is a feedback? A feedback is a climate process that amplifies or dampens the effect of a climate forcing. A climate forcing is any factor that influences temperature increase, in this case referring to CO2. So, a feedback is anything that amplifies or dampens the effect of CO2 on climate. Feedbacks that amplify it are called positive feedbacks, while those that dampen it are negative ones [4]. I argue that positive feedbacks dominate climate, and therefore, increase the overall effect of CO2 on temperature. Various studies report positive feedbacks as more likely. Soden and Held report a 2 degree celsius climate sensitivity due to positive feedbacks. The study reports very few negative feedbacks. Water vapor is found to provide the largest positive feedback in all models and its strength is consistent with that expected from constant relative humidity changes in the water vapor mixing ratio. The feedbacks from clouds and surface albedo are also found to be positive in all models, while the only stabilizing (negative) feedback comes from the temperature response. [5] A 2003 study by Colman reports a feedback of nearly 3 degrees celsius, and the paper is cited by Soden and Held. In the study, [a] comparison is performed for water vapour, cloud, albedo and lapse rate feedbacks taken from published results of offline feedback calculations for general circulation models (GCMs) with mixed layer oceans performing 2 x CO2 and solar perturbation experiments. [6] There is much evidence outside climate models as well. Wigley, et al. report a possible sensitivity of greater than 4.5 degrees celsius due to volcanic forcings, and supports an average sensitivity of 3.5 degrees. The study says, After the maximum cooling for low-latitude eruptions, the temperature relaxes back toward the initial state with an e-folding time of 2943 months for sensitivities of 14 degrees C equilibrium warming for CO2 doubling. [7] A 2005 study by Forster and Gregory also uses volcanic forcings and feedbacks, and finds a climate sensitivity range of 1 - 4.1 degrees Celsius [8]. Even in a hypothetical scenario where negative feedbacks cancel out positive feedbacks to a climate sensitivity of 1 degree C, research by Ziskin and Shaviv (2011) has predicted that the largest contribution to the 20th century warming comes from anthropogenic sources. [9] They find that of the ~0.7 degree C temperature rise in the 20th century (some estimates slightly higher), about 0.4 degrees of that are due to anthropogenic forgings, or about 57% of the warming. Nonetheless, climate sensitivity is likely much higher than that. Research by Patrick Michaels, a CATO scholar, found that the amplifier was 1.6 degrees C [10]. This means that human activity causing global warming is much greater than 57%, even under these low estimates. I still maintain that sensitivity is somewhere around 2 - 3 degrees C. A study by leading climatologist JD Annan -- using the Bayesian statistical approach -- found a mean sensitivity of 3 degrees Celsius [11]. The following graph describes the consensus in the literature on climate sensitivity [12]. The following picture portrays the evidence regarding climate sensitivity. As such, I conclude that the effect of the rise in CO2 on climate is huge. C2) Evidence from paleoclimatology The paleoclimatological record is clear that CO2 has become the chief climate forcing in the Cenozoic Era (which began after the Cretaceous mass-extinction event 65.5 million years ago). Overall, solar activity has increased by 40% in this period. James E. Hansen and Makiko Sato argue, The suns brightness increased steadily through the Cenozoic, by about 0.4 percent according to solar physics models (Sackmann et al., 1993). Because Earth absorbs about 240 W/m^2 of solar energy, that brightness increase is a forcing of about 1 W/m^2 . This small linear increase of forcing, by itself, would have caused a modest global warming through the Cenozoic Era. [13] Its clear that CO2 was the dominant forcing in the Cenozoic. [13] The temperature changes correspond to the changes in CO2 levels. Take the example of the Vostok ice cores. A study by French and Russian institutes says, There is a close correlation between Antarctic temperature and atmospheric concentrations of CO2 (Barnola et al. 1987). The extension of the Vostok CO2 record shows that the main trends of CO2 are similar for each glacial cycle. Major transitions from the lowest to the highest values are associated with glacial-interglacial transitions. During these transitions, the atmospheric concentrations of CO2 rises from 180 to 280-300 ppmv (Petit et al. 1999). The extension of the Vostok CO2 record shows the present-day levels of CO2 are unprecedented during the past 420 kyr. [14] This graph shows the correlations between CO2 and temperature over the past 200,000 years. There is proof that it is warmer now than since the Medieval Warm Period. In fact, it is warmer now than any year since 1400 [15]. Another study that replicated previous hockey stick studies shows the following data [16]. Thus, paleoclimatology confirms that CO2 influences climate at huge levels. C3) Human activity I have now established that CO2 is responsible for much more that 57% of global warming, somewhere around 75%. Now, I must establish that humans are responsible for much of CO2 generation. First, a simple correlation -- CO2 levels rose with the beginning of industrial activity [17]. The following graph shows CO2 concentrations over the last 10,000 years. If the ratio between C-14 and C-12 decline, the observation would virtually confirm that human activity is responsible for increase in CO2 concentration. This is because the CO2 emissions humans make come from fossil fuels [18]. This has been observed [19]. Thus, human activity has influenced CO2 decline and CO2 is a driving force of climate. Therefore, I affirm. 1. https://mises.org... 2. http://www.pik-potsdam.de... 3. http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com... 4. http://www.ipcc.ch... 5. http://www.gfdl.noaa.gov... 6. http://link.springer.com... 7. http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com... 8. http://homepages.see.leeds.ac.uk... 9. http://www.phys.huji.ac.il... 10. http://www.int-res.com... 11. http://www.jamstec.go.jp... 12. http://www.skepticalscience.com... 13. http://www.columbia.edu... 14. http://cdiac.ornl.gov... 15. http://www.atmosp.physics.utoronto.ca... 16. http://www.skepticalscience.com... 17. http://www.skepticalscience.com... 18. http://www.skepticalscience.com... 19. http://www.bgc.mpg.de...	PRO	25
25	S8006a72b-Ac584ce6c	Global Warming is Man-Made	"The sun drives of climate change The main driver of modern climate is solar activity. The energy output of the sun, called the irradiance. has been nearly constant in modern times, so that's not the cause. It is primarily the magnetic field of the sun which drives climate, and to a lesser extent the ultraviolet component of the irradiance. The magnet component varies dramatically. Norwegian scientists in the 1990's discovered that the single measure of solar activity that best predicts climate is the length of the previous solar cycle. The most readily apparent cycle in solar activity is the cycle in sunspot activity. These solar cycles average eleven years in length, and they have ranged in length from nine years to beyond eighteen years. [1] The length of the solar predicts climate change as shown in the graph [2] below: The increase in CO2 is very close to exponential, so as Pro noted, AGW theory predicts a straight line temperature rise. The graph shows clearly that is not what has happened. Climate has been behaving according to solar activity. A paper published [in 2012] in the Journal of Atmospheric and Solar-Terrestrial Physicsfinds that up to 72% of the temperature increase over the last 150 years can be explained by the length of solar cycles, [3] The length of the solar cycle does not perfectly represent the sun effects, so it's likely that a more precise model would produce a more precise result. Cosmic rays affect cloud cover The physical theory that explains the correlation is summarized by Archibald: There are two main ways that changing solar activity affects terrestrial climate. Both have their origin in the strength of the Suns magnetic field. In the first route, a lower magnetic field strength results in less sunspot activity, which in turn mean less solar wind, which allows more galactic cosmic rays to get to Earths orbit. The neutron shower from galactic cosmic rays causes more cloud formation, which in turn reflects more sunlight back into space, making the Earth colder.  In the second route, the lower magnetic field strength results in a lower temperature of the Suns chromosphere, which in turn produces less ultraviolet light. That decreases the production of lower stratospheric ozone, and that decrease causes a negative North Atlantic Oscillation (a fluctuation in sea-level atmospheric pressure), making the Northern Hemisphere colder. This second route makes winters longer and colder without necessarily reducing peak summer temperatures. [4] If solar magnetic activity really changes cloud cover, the incident radiance on the earth should vary with the sun's magnetic activity. That has been observed just as the solar theory predicts. [5] Solar activity is measured historically by the formation of beryllium 10, which accumulates in sediments to provide a history of solar activity. The Modern Warm Period from 1900 to 2008 is associated with a large decline in Be10 in ice cores, indicating a sustained higher level of solar activity in the twentieth century. There is also very close correlation between ice-rafted stone debris in the North Atlantic and Be10 levels over the last 10,000 yearsanother demonstration that solar activity controls climate. [6] The correlation continues through to the present day. Solar activity predicts the 17+ year halt in global warming as the cycle has reached a flat peak and is starting downward. The pause in global warming is illustrated in this graph: [7]: The AGW computer models include irradiance, which is essentially constant, but the models take no account at all of the solar magnetic effects that correlate tightly with climate. AGW theorists now admit that the CO2 models cannot be tweaked to explain the pause. They are now proposing a variety of new theories to patch the failed old theory. [8] One theory is that for some reason all the warming is going into the deep oceans. Another theory is that atmospheric aerosols (i.e., soot) is reducing the size of rain drops causing clouds to be whiter and reflect more energy. There are other theories. The problem is that if there is any uncalculated factor that completely wipes out CO2 effects, that admits CO2 does not dominate climate. If uncalculated factors can be as large or larger than the CO2 effect, that admits that previous warming might have been the result of unknown factors as well. The premise of the AGW theory was that because all the other factors affecting climate were known, CO2 must have caused the warming from 1983 to 1996. Historically, solar activity drives climate with CO2 rising after there is warming Al Gore famously showed two graphs, one of temperature over time and one of CO2 over time. The shapes of the curves were similar, showing a high correlation. Mr. Gore never overlaid the graphs. Had he done so, it would have been apparent that CO2 levels were following the warming rather by hundreds of years rather than leading it. As the oceans warm, they can dissolve less CO2, which is then released into the atmosphere. The CO2 rise is in response to the solar magnetic effects that changed cloud cover to cause the basic climate change. Over long periods of earth's history, there is no relationship between CO2 and climate.[8] Consensus does not determine science Pro has the burden of proving that human activity has dominated climate. My burden is only to show that the anthropogenic theory is unproved. A scientific theory is wrong if it fails to explain or predict, and anthropogenic theory has clearly failed. I'm not obligated to prove an alternative theory, but I nonetheless shown that solar magnetic activity explains and predicts climate much better than CO2 theory. Since solar magnetic activity has dominated climate, anthropogenic causes cannot be dominant. AGW theorists admit that factors not in their computer models have been so large as to completely cancel greenhouse gas effects. for the past 17+ years. Pro stresses that it is not just that a consensus exists, but that the consensus is based on data. (Actually, the only real data is a general increase in temperature which solar theory better explains, and the rest is computer models that did not predict the hiatus.) But every scientific consensus has been supported by data that scientists at the time thought conclusive. A wrong consensus means that the data was incorrect or that it was incorrectly interpreted. The once near-unanimous consensus that the earth was the center of the universe was based upon the indisputable observation that the sky appears to rotate around the earth. The theory was found wrong only by more careful observations starting with the inconsistent behavior of the paths of planets in the sky. In the 1960s, the scientific consensus favored the Steady State Theory over the Big Bang Theory. The Big Bang Theory predicted the presence of microwave background radiation, so when the background radiation was discovered, the consensus changed rapidly. Not long ago, the learned scientific consensus was that homosexuality was a form of mental illness. Psychologists thought they had the data to prove it, but they were wrong; it is genetic. Modern scientists continue to make errors reflected in wrong consensus. A very strong scientific consensus has until the past few years supported the theory that in the human diet, saturated fat causes high serum cholesterol levels which in turn causes heart disease. It turns out the original theory was based upon falsified data. The landmark peer that ""proved"" the theory deliberately excluded data that falsified the theory. A couple of other bogus papers supported the theory, including one in which cholesterol was injected into vegetarian rabbits, who then quite predictably died. Studies over the past fifty years that attempted to confirm the theory instead disproved it. [9, 10] The originator of the cholesterol theory believed it, and he did a great job of selling the theory so it quickly reached consensus.. Many papers giving the wrong results were not allowed to be published, or the authors declined to submit them for fear of ruining their reputation. Some scientists published after they retired so that career retribution could not be inflicted. I recite the cholesterol consensus error because it's very close to the way anthropogenic global warming theory has achieved consensus. Early enthusiastic advocates sold the theory as the only possible explanation of the rapid rise of temperatures from 1983 to 1996. According to that data, not only was CO2 the cause, but climate sensitivity much have been very large, perhaps five or even ten. Now Pro's claim is that it is at least 0.7. If it is that low, then global warming is not a crisis. it's hardly worth noting. The bogus 97% consensus comes from surveying only journals that refuse to publish dissent. The Climategate scandal showed how eager AGW are to suppress dissent.""In a November 15, 2005, email Mann expresses his satisfaction that Geophysical Research Letters is now firmly under the control of the climate change alarmists but laments that other publications still publish research by skeptics: The Geophysical Research Letters leak may have been plugged up now with new editorial leadership there, but these guys always have Climate Research and Energy and Environment, and will go there if necessary. [9] Very few papers scientific papers say anything about global warming as whole. For example, there are about 200 papers that show that the Medieval Warm Period and similar climate change existed worldwide, and that refute the bogus Hockey Stick argument for AGW. But the papers would not be counted as being in opposition to AGW. Besides, they are in the wrong journals. Virtually all the papers on solar theory -- there are hundreds -- are in specialist journals, not the surveyed climate journals. ------------------------------------------ Per the terms of of the debate, I'll put the reference list in the debate comments."	CON	26
26	Sa80b0a3-A46ef813e	Resolved: Human Activity Is a Significant Factor in Global Warming on Planet Earth.	"Thank you, medv4380. http://www.youtube.com... http://www.youtube.com... ==Contention 1: The correlation between increase in Carbon Dioxide and global temperature== Throughout the last 650,000 years, there have been seven cycles of glacial advances and retreats, where the carbon dioxide levels abruptly increased, then gradually decreased afterward. However, in 1950, Co2 levels were at a critical level and kept on rising. As of 2014, the global Co2 levels were at an all time high of nearly 400 parts per million [1]: As we can see above, in the last 650,000 years, the Co2 levels have never grown above 300 ppm, as opposed to now, where the Co2 levels are at 400 ppm. Obviously, this abrupt growth in Co2 levels are caused by human activity, such as mass production, the use of electricity, polluting, etc. I have provided a youtube video above to show the correlation between the high Co2 levels and global temperature [2]. When both are compared, this becomes irrefutable evidence that man-made global warming exists. Note that this is all over the world, so accusations of choosing a specific area for evidence cannot be valid. In fact, as of 2013, the average global temperature was 14.6 degrees Celsius (58.3 degrees Fahrenheit), which is 0.8 degrees Celsius (1.4 degrees Fahrenheit) warmer than when the year was 1880, and 0.6 degrees Celsius (1.1 degrees Fahrenheit) warmer than the mid-20th century baseline [3][4][5]: Already, on the first contention, we have seen major evidence affirming the resolution. ==Contention 2: The cause and effect of the Greenhouse Effect and what makes it more powerful== The greenhouse effect on Planet Earth has been occurring for almost its whole life and is a natural phenomenon, since greenhouse gases such as Co2 have existed on Earth from its birth, thus heating the Earth to help sustain forms of life [6]: ""To its credit, the greenhouse effect has been around long before humans began to burn fossil fuels, and it is a natural phenomenon in that makes life habitable for all living things."" [6] The greenhouse effect operates when the sun's heat passes through Earth's atmosphere, heats the Earth's surface and is reflected back upward. Most of this heat is absorbed by the greenhouse gases like water vapor, Co2 and methane. Afterward, the heat is re-emited in all directions, thus starting the cycle again, continuously heating the Earth. Greenhouse gases literally act like a thermal blanket for Earth [7]: ""A layer of greenhouse gases - primarily water vapor, and including much smaller amounts of carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide - act as a thermal blanket for the Earth, absorbing heat and warming the surface to a life-supporting average of 59 degrees Fahrenheit (15 degrees Celsius)."" [7] From this information, we can conclude that the more greenhouse gases are put into the atmosphere, the more heat from the sun is absorbed, thus creating a powerful greenhouse effect. Human actvity is causing this to happen. P1) The more greenhouse gases there are in the atmosphere, the more powerful the greenhouse effect P2) Human activity is emitting more greenhouse gases into the atmosphere C) Human activity is the cause of a more powerful greenhouse effect, and thus man-made global warming exists. To further prove this point, let us inspect Earth's neighboring planets, Mars and Venus. Mars' atmosphere is quite thin, and it's nearly completely made up of Co2. However, it is because of the low atmospheric pressure and lack of other greenhouse gases that the greenhouse effect is not at all strong and thus Mars has a frozen surface without any signs of organisms [7]. ""Not enough greenhouse effect: The planet Mars has a very thin atmosphere, nearly all carbon dioxide. Because of the low atmospheric pressure, and with little to no methane or water vapor to reinforce the weak greenhouse effect, Mars has a largely frozen surface that shows no evidence of life."" [7] Now, let us inspect Venus. Despite Venus' atmosphere also being almost entirely carbon dioxide, the amount of Co2 Venus contains is about 300 times as much as Mars' or Earth's. This creates a HUGELY powerful greenhouse effect, causing a temperature so high that lead could not stay solid. [7] ""Too much greenhouse effect: The atmosphere of Venus, like Mars, is nearly all carbon dioxide. But Venus has about 300 times as much carbon dioxide in its atmosphere as Earth and Mars do, producing a runaway greenhouse effect and a surface temperature hot enough to melt lead."" [7] This can be further proven by checking Mercury's temperature compared to Venus' temperature, even though Mercury is closer to the Sun than Venus. [8] ""Venus has a very dense atmosphere made up of carbon dioxide, nitrogen, and sulfuric acid, while Mercury has a very thin atmosphere with various gases, but very little carbon dioxide."" [8] Again this information is major evidence of the existence of man-made global warming. ==Contention 3: Arctic Ice and Sea Levels== It is widely agreed that melting ice from the Arctic and Antarctic and sea level rise is a sign of increasing temperatures. If I can prove that ice is definitely decreasing and that sea levels are definitely rising, then I win this contention. Here is a chart showing definite decrease in Arctic ice [9]: Here is another chart showing rising sea levels [10]: Also, recent reports state that the Arctic is losing ice three times as fast as the Antarctic is gaining ice [11][12]. ""Sea ice surrounding Antarctica reached a new record high extent this year, covering more of the southern oceans than it has since scientists began a long-term satellite record to map sea ice extent in the late 1970s. The upward trend in the Antarctic, however, is only about a third of the magnitude of the rapid loss of sea ice in the Arctic Ocean."" Thus, I affirm this contention. ==Conclusion== I have put forward major evidence and arguments proving the existence of man-made global warming. I have also put out evidence that the greenhouse effect does indeed exist. Thus, the resolution is affirmed. ==Sources== [1] http://climate.nasa.gov............; [2] https://www.youtube.com............; [3] http://climate.nasa.gov............; [4] http://climate.nasa.gov............; [5] http://data.giss.nasa.gov............; [6] http://earthguide.ucsd.edu............; [7] http://climate.nasa.gov............; [8] http://scienceline.ucsb.edu...... [9] http://www.forbes.com...... [10] http://www.nasa.gov...... [11] http://www.nasa.gov...... [12] https://www.youtube.com......"	PRO	27
27	S422c0992-Acce5573b	Climate Change is driven by human CO2 emissions	"I thank my opponent Mr. Adams for Offering up a hopefully exciting and fun debate! I am assuming that I will be arguing that humans are a major cause to global warming increases with C02 emissions. My first point, is that C02 emissions are scientifically proven to be a mjor leading cause in the rise of global climate changes, IE Global warming. ""Global warming is caused by the emission of greenhouse gases . 72% of the totally emitted greenhouse gases is carbon dioxide (CO2), 18% Methane and 9% Nitrous oxide (NOx). Carbon dioxide emissions therefore are the most important cause of global warming. CO2 is inevitably created by burning fuels like e.g. oil, natural gas, diesel, organic-diesel, petrol, organic-petrol, ethanol."" http://timeforchange.org... From the year 1991 to the year 2005, There has been a significant increase in harm done to the atmosphere, mainly due to C02 emissions. See picture. ""This graph best represents what is taking place world wide. Recent investigations have shown that inconceivable catastrophic changes in the environment will take place if the global temperatures increase by more than 2 C (3.6 F). A warming of 2 C (3.6 F) corresponds to a carbon dioxide (CO2) concentration of about 450 ppm (parts per million) in the atmosphere. As of beginning of 2007, the CO2 concentration is already at 380 ppm and it raises on average 2 - 3 ppm each year, so that the critical value will be reached in approximately 20 to 30 years from now."" The point here, is that C02 emissions DO harm the atmosphere. My opponent cannot prove that it doesn't because statistically, scientifically, and factually, the evidence stacks up. What has happened recently? ""Carbon dioxide (CO2) is the primary greenhouse gas emitted through human activities. In 2010, CO2 accounted for about 84% of all U.S. greenhouse gas emissions from human activities. Carbon dioxide is naturally present in the atmosphere as part of the Earth's carbon cycle (the natural circulation of carbon among the atmosphere, oceans, soil, plants, and animals). Human activities are altering the carbon cycle--both by adding more CO2 to the atmosphere and by influencing the ability of natural sinks, like forests, to remove CO2 from the atmosphere. While CO2 emissions come from a variety of natural sources, human-related emissions are responsible for the increase that has occurred in the atmosphere since the industrial revolution."" The carbon Dioxide emitted is MAN MADE. The things we use everyday, emit vasts amounts of carbon dioxide. Coal, natural gas, and oil are prime examples of things that we humans use daily that attribute to harsh environmental conditions. To be more specific, here is a graph that shows details on what things most commonly used to emit human made Carbon Dioxide. The information cited above is from the Environmental Protection agency, and backed from a government based site. http://www.epa.gov... Without tryin to sounds to repetive, I don't really know how else to argue this point. It is man made. There are tons of statistics, data, analytics, etc, that I could continue citing that prove the point here. Also, I am not entirely sure what my opponent is going to attempt to argue. In his first round, he says: ""CON argues that global warming is primarily controlled by human emissions"" What exactly do you mean by human emissions? For example I am arguing what you said to argue, however I am also arguing that C02 emissions are man made. I ask this because I don't want to have any confusions. None-the-less I have uphelp the BOP in this debate so far, as asked in round 1. I ask that any further clarifications on the topic be made in the following rebuttal, and I will respond in the like. Good luck to you Mr. Adams in this debate, and I look forward to a fun and thought provoking debating process!"	PRO	28
28	Sc09112b2-Aba76af13	Humanity is the main cause of global warming.	"I will restate, than in order to establish that the primary cause of global warming is human activity, it is necessary to quantify the amount and effect (not qualify). No scientist or scientific body to date, to my knowledge, has been able to do so. Specifically, anyone making the assertion that humans are the primary cause of global warming must scientifically establish/prove what percentage is human as compare to natural variability and natural causes. It is not good enough to use terms such as ""significant"" and ""substantially"" as they are extremely vague inconclusive terms. An even worse approach is to take the line of reasoning presented on the timeforchange.org site referenced by my opponent, which virtually ignores the question/possibility of natural factors. I will reference the following chart by Climatologist Cliff Harris and Meteorologist Randy Mann to illustrate my position: http://www.longrangeweather.com... Note that on this chart there have been two periods with higher and more prolonged global warming periods in 1100 BC and 1300 AD (up to two-fold greater). My opponent also dismissed the importance of the naturally occurring little ice-age, yet its effect was over three-fold greater than our so called current ""human"" caused warming period. Being that natural causes are scientifically established to have created global temperature swings 3 times larger, and hundreds of years longer in duration than our current warming period (as recent as 1600 - 1800 AD), it is complete pseudo-science to claim that natural cycles play an insignificant role in global temperature change. In fact, being that we are presently in a period where we would naturally expect to see a warming period in the natural global temperature cycle, one would expect that human activity would have created the largest warming event in the last 5000 years. The chart/link I presented establishes that this kind of warming simply hasn't happened. The evidence I presented could even be used as an argument that Mankind's impact on global warming is negligible as compared to natural variability. Lastly, I acknowledge that my sources attribute a portion of climate change to human activity, but again, ""significant"" and ""substantially"" is not a quantification as I asserted earlier. I would ask that my opponent reference scholarly material that definitively establishes that human activity outweighs all other possible natural elements and variables in global climate change."	CON	29
29	Saa3d5131-Ab06805b9	Mankind Is Not the Main Cause of Global Warming	"I would like to thank tylergraham95 for accepting this debate. I have decided to amend my debate structure a bit to fit the purpose of this debate. This round, I will post arguments for a natural cause. In the next round, I will post arguments against an anthropogenic cause. And in the final round, I will consider the most important material from both cases. The Sun The sun is the source for all the heat that the Earth receives. It is only natural to expect that fluctuations in the climate can be determined by the amount of solar activity. Unfortunately, the solar connection to climate Is not very well understood. However, there is a number of separate pieces of evidence, both direct and indirect, that indicate that the sun is the only cause of climate change on Earth. A graph of total solar irradiance is shown below: [1] The low periods (the first one being the Maunder minimum and the second one being the Dalton minimum) correspond to documented colder periods in human history. In fact, the time of the Maunder minimum corresponded to the little ice age, when rivers that are normally ice-free froze and snow fields remained year-round at lower altitudes.[2] The correlation between solar activity and climate continued into the 20th century, and continues to this day. There are a number of methods to measure solar activity, the best one arguably being solar cycle length. Between raw solar activity (solar irradiance) and temperature, temperature lags about 7.5-10 years behind solar irradiance because of the heat capacity of the oceans. A better representation of the sun/temperature correlation is the length of the solar cycle. ""This new parameter not only indicated a remarkably high correlation coefficient between solar activity and temperature (on the order of 0.95), but it also eliminated the problem of the 7-year lag encountered by Reid.""[3] Here is a graph showing solar cycle length against temperature: [4] The correlation between the two is striking. There is obviously correlation. Like I said before, what is not well understood is the method of causation between the two. However, we can be certain that the sun has an obvious effect on the climate, and this is shown wonderfully above. The effect of solar activity is amplified through cosmic rays. Experiments have shown that cosmic rays increase cloud cover, that increased cloud cover lowers global temperature, and that solar activity reduces the amount of cosmic rays that strike the Earth. An experiment at CERN shows the first hypothesis: Scientists found that when shielding was removed and natural cosmic rays allowed to hit the chamber, cloud seeding increased dramatically, and it increased substantially again when additional artificial cosmic rays were added. Experiments in the atmosphere further confirm this: Preliminary results show that these faux cosmic rays indeed have an effect on the atmosphere: When high energy protons stream in, production of nanometer-sized particles in the atmosphere increases by more than ten times.[5][6] It is commonly accepted that greater amounts of clouds lower global temperature, because they block some of the solar radiation. Indeed, over the past couple of decades, cloud cover has decreased.[7] As for the final hypothesis that solar activity is correlated with cosmic rays, it is known that cosmic rays come from space, and that higher solar activity means that the sun has a stronger magnetic field, and that this stronger magnetic field deflects more of the cosmic rays reaching Earth. Over the period between 1975 and 1989, he found cosmic rays decreased by 1.2 percent annually, amplifying the sun's change in irradiance about four-fold.[8] This graph shows both the inverse correlation between cosmic rays and low clouds and solar activity: [9] The effect of solar activity on the climate can be partially explained by the role of ocean currents. This [solar activity] is the single most important cause [of ocean currents and their temperatures]. The Sun provides the bulk of the energy which drives the circulation of water in the oceans, either directly or indirectly (through winds). The uneven distribution of solar energy across the globe (highest at the equator, decreasing towards the poles) produces an uneven heating of water in the ocean.[12] The r^2 correlation between ocean current anomalies and temperature is 0.83, which is considered a good correlation, and considering ocean current's dependence on the solar cycle (which is rather similar to the 27-year solar cycle, I might add), this proves yet another piece of evidence linking solar activity with the climate.[13] Here is a graph showing ocean current anomalies compared with temperature: [13] Another piece of evidence in favor of a solar cause to global warming is an analysis of other bodies in the solar system, for if the Earth is warming, shouldn't the other bodies in the solar system also be warming? In 2005 data from NASA's Mars Global Surveyor and Odyssey missions revealed that the carbon dioxide ""ice caps"" near Mars's south pole had been diminishing for three summers in a row. Habibullo Abdussamatov, head of space research at St. Petersburg's Pulkovo Astronomical Observatory in Russia, says the Mars data is evidence that the current global warming on Earth is being caused by changes in the sun.[10] This is not just an isolated incident. Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, Io, Europa, Ganymede, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune, Trition, and Pluto have all shown signs that they are warming (if I have space in my round 4 argument, I'll elaborate on this).[11] If the Scafetta and West analysis used the uncontaminated satellite data since 1980, the results would show that the Sun has contributed at least 75% of the global warming of the last century. And this is just a minimum estimate. If this is true (which it seems like it is considering the arguments above), the debate has already been decided. The 1500-Year Cycle In addition to cycles of interglacials and ice ages, there seems to be a 1500-year climate cycle, where the climate goes from a period of warmer temperature, to a period of colder temperature, and back again to a period of warmer temperature, the entire process taking 1500 years to repeat. Where do these cycles come from? There's no 1500 year solar cycle. However, there are 87 and 210 solar cycles, and superimposing the two cycles produces the 1500 year cycle.[14] This graph shows the most recent 1500-year cycle: Many of the previous warmings (the Minoan warming, Roman warming, and Medieval warming), were as warm, if not warmer than the current climate. This, combined with the correlation evidence between solar activity and the climate, indicates that the current episode of global warming is nothing more than another cycle of the 1500-year cycle. There are numerous pieces of evidence for each of these warmings, as well as illustrations of the cycle. One such piece of evidence is, The scientists found evidence that on average, every 1,470 years, plus or minus 500 years, cold, ice-bearing waters, which today circulate around southern Greenland, pushed as far south as Great Britain.[8] There seems to be a full cycle of up-down-up temperatures of the climate every 1470 years. And this goes as far back as at least 1 million years ago. Currently, we are in an upswing of temperatures, just coming off of the Little Ice Age, the peak to be in a few hundred years, making the peak-to-peak difference between today's global warming and the Medieval Warm Period a little less than 1500 years. So today's Global Warming is a natural, cyclical occurrence. Conclusion Global warming is caused by an increase in solar activity. There is both correlation and causation between solar activity and global temperature. The sun's effects on cosmic rays amplify the correlation, and the ocean current's cycles and correlation with temperature back up the idea. This hypothesis is backed up further by evidence that other bodies in the solar system are warming. The climate of the Earth fluctuates in 1500-year cycles, that correspond to a superposition of solar cycles. The Sun has been more active in the last 100 years than in the last 500, and this is exemplified in the fact that we are going through a warm period. There's perfectly good reason to suppose that the current warming, similar to all the other previous warmings in magnitude and initial conditions (solar activity) was caused by the sun. In the next round, I will present arguments against an anthropogenic cause to global warming. Sources [1]: http://www1.ncdc.noaa.gov... [2]: http://solarscience.msfc.nasa.gov... [3]: http://www.colby.edu... [4]: http://paulmacrae.com... [5]: http://www.forbes.com... [6]: http://www.popsci.com... [7]: http://wattsupwiththat.com... [8]: Singer, S. Fred, and Dennis T. Avery: ""Unstoppable Global Warming: Every 1,500 Years."" [9]: http://climatereview.net... [10]: http://news.nationalgeographic.com... [11]: http://prof77.wordpress.com... [12]: http://essayweb.net... [13]: http://wattsupwiththat.com... [14]: http://www.nature.com..."	PRO	30
30	Sdc9f0311-A8912e190	There is no anthropomorphic global warming	"""There is no anthropomorphic global warming Global warming has occurred in the past hundred years. This warming occurred mostly in the first half of the 20th century, counter to the period when there was more co2. Correlation between sunspot activity and temperatures are higher than co2 and temperature."" As Pro there is still a burden of proof on your behalf outside of simple refutation. ""Global warming is caused by human activity."" ""No it isn't."" Doesn't really cut it. No: 4 : to imply a meaning expressed by the opposite positive statement http://www.merriam-webster.com... Anthropomorphic: 1 : described or thought of as having a human form or human attributes. 2 : ascribing human characteristics to nonhuman things. http://www.merriam-webster.com... I am assuming the error is on your part in saying that global warming is 'not human like' as opposed to 'not being human caused'. If I am mistaken round two will be interesting. :) ================================================================================ ""This warming occurred mostly in the first half of the 20th century"" ""The three warmest years on record have all occurred since 1998; 19 of the warmest 20 since 1980. Overall land and sea surface temperatures for the world were second highest in 129 years of record keeping, trailing only 2002..."" (NOAA's National Climatic Data Center: 2008). Our influence on Earth's climate did not begin a few decades or centuries ago, but 8000 years before; with the birth of agriculture (see anthropocene). In a study at the University of Virginia, ancient human activities have shown to have affected the climate. Key discrepancies in levels of greenhouse gases revealed by ice cores show that during the previous three periods between ice ages, levels of carbon dioxide and methane in the air fell in lock-step with decreases in summer sunshine caused by cyclical changes in Earth's orbit. However after the most recent ice age, which peaked around 12,000 years ago, both gases broke the set pattern. Levels of atmospheric carbon dioxide began to increase 8000 years ago, followed by methane 5000 years ago, even though summer sunshine has been decreasing. ""Both gases followed the expected trend for a while but then went up instead of down."" After removing possible natural causes for the greenhouse gas increases, it is probable that early farmers who cleared forests in Europe, India and China accounted for the surge of carbon dioxide, while rice paddies and burgeoning herds of livestock produced the extra methane. Over time this activity laced the atmosphere with about 40 parts per million of carbon dioxide and 250 parts per billion of methane, enough to produce nearly 0.8 C of warming before 1700, around the dawn of industrialisation. Which just about equals the warming humans are thought to have caused since then. http://www.newscientist.com... http://courses.eas.ualberta.ca... ""Correlation between sunspot activity and temperatures are higher than co2 and temperature."" For as long as I have been alive, global trend of temperatures has risen. This is a strong correlation. :P The sun emitted a third less energy about 4 billion years ago and has been brightening since. For most of this time, Earth has been warmer than today, (faint sun paradox). The reason: higher levels of greenhouse gases which trap more of the sun's heat. Solar fluctuations and other factors such as dust ejected by volcanoes - and average global temperatures may well have been largely responsible for warming in the late 19th and early 20th century, leveling off during the mid-century cooling. However there is no positive correlation at all between solar activity and the strong warming during the past 40 years. http://stephenschneider.stanford.edu... The evidence that CO2 is a greenhouse gas depends mainly on physics, not on the correlation with past temperature, which tells us nothing about cause and effect. And while the rises in CO2 a few hundred years after the start of inter-glacials can only be explained by rising temperatures (i.e. temperature and CO2 levels are reciprocal), the full measure of temperature increases can only be explained by inclusion of the human influenced rise in CO2 levels."	CON	31
31	S70cb061-A2746a994	Man-Made global warming exists* and poses a serious threat to humanity.	"I thank my opponent for accepting my debate. Pros Case Point A: Man-Made Global Warming exists Sub point 1: Scientific consensus ""Carbon dioxide and other global warming pollutants are collecting in the atmosphere like a thickening blanket, trapping the sun's heat and causing the planet to warm up. Although local temperatures fluctuate naturally, over the past 50 years the average global temperature has increased at the fastest rate in recorded history. Scientists say that unless we curb the emissions that cause climate change, average U.S. temperatures could be 3 to 9 degrees higher by the end of the century."" Scientists are undoubtedly sure that Man-Made Global warming is indeed a real threat. As is corroborated by a collection of scholarly articles. 97% of climate scientists are in agreement.(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6)(7) Point B: man-made global warming is the primary cause of Global Warming Sub point 1: Scientific Consensus ""The United States Global Change Research Program (which includes the Department of Defense, NASA, National Science Foundation and other government agencies) has said that 'global warming is unequivocal and primarily human-induced' and that 'climate changes are underway in the United States and are projected to grow.'""(3) ""The climate change denial machine has been working hard to discredit the latest UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report, which confirms that climate change is occurring and that human activity is primarily responsible.""(5) ""Ninety-seven percent of climate scientists agree that climate-warming trends over the past century are very likely due to human activities,and most of the leading scientific organizations worldwide have issued public statements endorsing this position.""(6) Again this is a case of overwhelming scientific consensus. Scientific research has been done by a countless number of experts, and they have all come to a similar agreement. Humanity is the primary cause of global warming. To challenge this claim is to challenge the authority of research giants such as NASA. Environmental scientists are the authority on this subject, and they agree with the Pro. Sub point 2: Carbon Emissions are a major cause, and a product of humanity ""The only way to explain the pattern [global warming] is to include the effect of greenhouse gases (GHGs) emitted by humans.""(2) ""Most climate scientists agree the main cause of the current global warming trend is human expansion of the ""greenhouse effect"" -- warming that results when the atmosphere traps heat radiating from Earth toward space. Certain gases in the atmosphere block heat from escaping. Long-lived gases, remaining semi-permanently in the atmosphere, which do not respond physically or chemically to changes in temperature are described as ""forcing"" climate change""(7) Scientists agree that humanity has altered the balance of greenhouse gases on the earth, which is a direct major cause of global warming. Point C: The effects of global warming are extreme. Global climate change leads to: -Increased temperatures -Changing landscapes -A higher number of droughts, fires, and floods -Endangered wildlife habitats -Rising sea levels -Greater damage from extreme storms -More heat-related illness and disease -Economic problems (4) Sub point 1: man-made global warming encourages natural disaster ""Hurricanes and other storms are likely to become stronger.""(2) ""Anthropogenic warming by the end of the 21st century will likely cause hurricanes globally to be more intense on average (by 2 to 11% according to model projections for an IPCC A1B scenario). This change would imply an even larger percentage increase in the destructive potential per storm, assuming no reduction in storm size.""(8) With storms like sandy become more common and much stronger, Humans living in coastal regions face a very serious threat. Already hurricanes such as sandy and the recent Typhoon in the Philippines are costing billions of dollars in damages, and thousands of human lives. (9)(10) Man-made global warming is likely to cause these storms to become even more intense, therefore threatening to cost even more lives and money. These death counts and damage costs are not small, by any stretch of the imagination; with global warming left unchecked, these counts will grow. Sub point 2: Rising sea levels/flooding ""Sea levels are expected to rise between 7 and 23 inches (18 and 59 centimeters) by the end of the century, and continued melting at the poles could add between 4 and 8 inches (10 to 20 centimeters).""(2) ""Floods and droughts will become more common. Rainfall in Ethiopia, where droughts are already common, could decline by 10 percent over the next 50 years.""(2) As polar caps warm, ice caps are likely to melt and release water into the oceans and seas, causing the levels to rise. this could result in flooding in coastal cities, such as New Orleans, that are close to, at, or below sea level. Furthermore, man-made global warming could result in more intense cycles of flooding and drought in other areas of the world, such as Ethiopia. These are real threats to human lives. Flooding, like storms, has a very high cost of both money and, more importantly, human life. Sub point 3: Future effects of man-made global warming could significantly increase the hostility of the Earth environment. There are a myriad of effects that man-made global warming will have that will make the Earth environment, generally, more hostile. ""Some diseases will spread, such as malaria carried by mosquitoes."" (2) ""Less fresh water will be available. If the Quelccaya ice cap in Peru continues to melt at its current rate, it will be gone by 2100, leaving thousands of people who rely on it for drinking water and electricity without a source of either."" (2) ""Below are some of the regional impacts of global change forecast by the IPCC: -North America: Decreasing snowpack in the western mountains; 5-20 percent increase in yields of rain-fed agriculture in some regions; increased frequency, intensity and duration of heat waves in cities that currently experience them. -Latin America: Gradual replacement of tropical forest by savannah in eastern Amazonia; risk of significant biodiversity loss through species extinction in many tropical areas; significant changes in water availability for human consumption, agriculture and energy generation. -Europe: Increased risk of inland flash floods; more frequent coastal flooding and increased erosion from storms and sea level rise; glacial retreat in mountainous areas; reduced snow cover and winter tourism; extensive species losses; reductions of crop productivity in southern Europe. -Africa: By 2020, between 75 and 250 million people are projected to be exposed to increased water stress; yields from rain-fed agriculture could be reduced by up to 50 percent in some regions by 2020; agricultural production, including access to food, may be severely compromised. -Asia: Freshwater availability projected to decrease in Central, South, East and Southeast Asia by the 2050s; coastal areas will be at risk due to increased flooding; death rate from disease associated with floods and droughts expected to rise in some regions.""(11) Here are some charts to illustrate further effects. (11) Current Effects Future Effects Human lives are at stake, and even the economies of the world are at stake. Summary There is overwhelming evidence to prove that man-made global warming is indeed real. Furthermore, the effects of man-made global warming are so massively detrimental that those who are concerned over the future of humanity ought to care greatly about the massive loss of life, cost of damage, and other miscellaneous undesirables that are consequences of man-made global warming. Sources 1. http://www.sciencemag.org... 2. http://environment.nationalgeographic.com... 3. http://www.nrdc.org... 4. http://www.mfpp.org... 5. http://www.edf.org... 6. http://climate.nasa.gov... 7. http://climate.nasa.gov... 8. http://www.gfdl.noaa.gov... 9. http://www.usatoday.com... 10. http://www.nbcnews.com... 11. http://climate.nasa.gov..."	PRO	32
32	S66bd9128-A6e51ece8	Mankind Is the Main Cause of Global Warming	"For R3, I will focus on rebutting Con's R2. ""The Great Global Warming Swindle"" Much of my opponent's arguments basically borrows from ideas that haven't held up in a long while and are generally dismissed by the vast majority of climate change scientists. This article (6) in New Scientist articulately explains: ""Take the repeated claims that recent global warming is mostly or all due to solar changes. In 1991, for instance, a paper in Science (7) claimed there was a striking correlation between variations in the solar cycle length and temperature between 1880 and 1980, suggesting greenhouse gases have not played as big a role as thought. However, the correlation has not held up after 1980 (8). What is more, it turns out that the apparent correlation before 1980 is due to manipulation of the data (9). Despite being discredited, this graph is still being presented as evidence against human-induced global warming today (see The Great Global Warming Swindle entry in Wikipedia). Similarly, studies suggesting that the lower atmosphere and the oceans are cooling, contrary to what climate models predict, have turned out to be wrong. Later studies have shown the apparent coolings to be a result of errors in equipment or calibration (See Sceptics forced into climate climb-down) (9). By contrast, the famous ""hockey stick"" graph has been the subject of a determined campaign to discredit it (see The hockey stick graph has been proven to be wrong) (10). Yet later temperature reconstructions and other evidence back the key conclusions of the original hockey stick study (See Climate: The great hockey stick debate.)"" Just How Much Influence DOES Solar Energy Have? The big sticking point in our debate has been the issue of precisely how much influence the sun has on global warming. For this, we must look to what has been found by actual science (11): ""As supplier of almost all the energy in Earth""s climate, the sun has a strong influence on climate. A comparison of sun and climate over the past 1150 years found temperatures closely match solar activity (Usoskin 2005). However, after 1975, temperatures rose while solar activity showed little to no long-term trend. This led the study to conclude, """"during these last 30 years the solar total irradiance, solar UV irradiance and cosmic ray flux has not shown any significant secular trend, so that at least this most recent warming episode must have another source."" In fact, a number of independent measurements of solar activity indicate the sun has shown a slight cooling trend since 1960, over the same period that global temperatures have been warming. Over the last 35 years of global warming, sun and climate have been moving in opposite directions. An analysis of solar trends concluded that the sun has actually contributed a slight cooling influence in recent decades (Lockwood 2008)."" This conclusion is confirmed by many studies finding that while the sun contributed to warming in the early 20th Century, it has had little contribution (most likely negative) in the last few decades. For the purposes of space, these are just a few of the peer reviewed papers I can reference. I have more on demand: Huber and Knutti (2011): ""Even for a reconstruction with high variability in total irradiance, solar forcing contributed only about 0.07""C (0.03-0.13""C) to the warming since 1950."" Erlykin 2009: ""We deduce that the maximum recent increase in the mean surface temperature of the Earth which can be ascribed to solar activity is 14% of the observed global warming."" Benestad 2009: ""Our analysis shows that the most likely contribution from solar forcing a global warming is 7 "" 1% for the 20th century and is negligible for warming since 1980."" Lockwood 2008: ""It is shown that the contribution of solar variability to the temperature trend since 1987 is small and downward; the best estimate is -1.3% and the 2? confidence level sets the uncertainty range of -0.7 to -1.9%."" Mars Con appeals to the work of Khabibullo Abdusamatov (12): ""Abdussamatov claims that ""global warming results not from the emission of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere, but from an unusually high level of solar radiation and a lengthy""almost throughout the last century""growth in its intensity.""[4] This view contradicts the mainstream scientific opinion on climate change as well as accepted reconstructions of solar activity.[5][6][7] He has asserted that ""parallel global warmings""observed simultaneously on Mars and on Earth""can only be a straightline consequence of the effect of the one same factor: a long-time change in solar irradiance.""[8] This assertion has not been accepted by the broader scientific community, some of whom have stated that ""the idea just isn""t supported by the theory or by the observations"" and that it ""doesn""t make physical sense.""[9][10]"" The above article puts it mildly about him being not widely accepted. He has zero papers published in peer review journals, he is a mathematician and astrophysicist "" not climatologist "" and is a well known cuckoo on CC denier lists. He is not even part of the mere 24 articles out of 13,950 peer reviewed articles on climate change between 1991-2012 that reject global warming (13), not that it would help his case much for as it is so delightfully put: ""Of one thing we can be certain: had any of these [24 peer reviewed] articles presented the magic bullet that falsifies human-caused global warming, that article would be on its way to becoming one of the most-cited in the history of science."" But to tackle the actual Mars claim, let's again look at what the experts are saying (14): ""The Sun""s energy output has not increased since direct measurements began in 1978 (see Climate myth special: Global warming is down to the Sun, not humans). If increased solar output really was responsible, we should be seeing warming on all the planets and their moons, not just Mars and Pluto. One theory is that winds have recently swept some areas of Mars clean of dust, darkening the surface, warming the Red Planet and leading to further increases in windiness "" a positive feedback effect (see Dust blamed for warming on MarsMovie Camera). There is a great deal of uncertainty, though. The warming could be a regional effect. And recent results from the thermal imaging system on the Mars Odyssey probe suggest that the polar cap is not shrinking at all, but varies greatly from one Martian year to the next, although the details have yet to be published."" And also (15): ""Recently, there have been some suggestions that ""global warming"" has been observed on Mars (e.g. here). These are based on observations of regional change around the South Polar Cap, but seem to have been extended into a ""global"" change, and used by some to infer an external common mechanism for global warming on Earth and Mars (e.g. here and here). But this is incorrect reasoning and based on faulty understanding of the data."" Thus, the Mars claims must also be considered thoroughly discounted. Con may now begin R4. Sources (6) http://www.newscientist.com... (7) http://dx.doi.org... (8) http://www.newscientist.com... (9) http://environment.newscientist.com... (10) http://www.newscientist.com... (11) http://www.skepticalscience.com... (12) http://en.wikipedia.org... (13) http://www.desmogblog.com... (14) http://www.newscientist.com... (15) http://www.realclimate.org..."	PRO	33
33	Sde92ac8b-Ac277cdfd	Anthropogenic Climate Change Exists	"Since 2000, CO2 has risen by 54% with no increase in global temperatures. Why? Pro cannot provide a good answer to that question, and neither can the IPCC. The theory that CO2 dominates climate is therefore wrong. It may be that CO2 is contributing to warming at some level, but that a greater cooling factor is swamping the CO2 effect. If that's the case, there is no basis for supposing that CO2 will dominate climate in the future, because whatever cooling dominated the past 17 years may be the same or greater in the future. The IPCC cannot explain why a 54% increase in CO2 produced no increase in temperature. As described in [8], Von Storch systematically ran all the IPCC computer models of the climate, and found that the actual temperatures for the last 17 years fell outside the model predictions. That's after the models had been tweaked using knowledge of the lack of global warming. The models still could not describe the past, so clearly they cannot be counted on to predict the future. Pro only offers at base the fallacious logic that correlation means causation. But when CO2 increases by 54% in the past 17 years, and there is no increase in global temperature, then even the correlation claim fails. Solar activity correlates well with global temperature for the past 17 years, for the entire 20the century and for as long as records of sunspot activity have been kept, which is back through the Middle Ages. Solar activity is discounted by CO2 theorists on the grounds that the measured irradiance of the sun, i.e.. the heat output, has not changed enough in recent decades to account for the temperature changes. However, solar activity produces changes in cosmic ray levels, and there is a theory that cosmic rays have an effect that changes cloud cover. The solar cosmic ray theory is also one of correlation, and cannot be considered causation until the mechanism is proved. However, unlike CO2 theory, the correlation actually holds over long and short periods. There is a close correlation of solar sunspot activity and global temperature for the past century. [10. http://www.tmgnow.com...] The past 17 years has been at the leveling off and start of a downward trend in sunspots after a period of increase during the 1980s and 1990s. [11. http://notrickszone.com...] Historical reconstruction shows CO2 does not dominate climate I pointed to reconstructions of climate for the distant past and the for the past 2000 years to show that climate has varied more than in recent years, and without any apparent relation to atmospheric CO2 levels. Pro argues that past climate doesn't count because we are only discussing the past century and the next century. Past climate counts because the laws of physics do not change at all over time. Consequently, if factors other than CO2 have always dominated climate, then it's unreasonable to suppose that a new CO2-only physics began recently. Pro's principle argument is that correlation proves causation. If there was no such correlation in the past, that is not sustained. Since the chance correlation only applies for a short time, it's important to Pro's case that we not look at the hundreds, thousands, and millions of years when there was no such correlation. Here are the two climate reconstructions referenced in the previous round: The climate of the past 2000 years shows there is nothing special about the past century. Climate has always been changing by about as much as in the past century, and often more. Global warming hockey stick discredited The global warming hockey stick was presented in the 2000 IPCC report. It purported to show that the Medieval Warm Period and the Little Ice Age were local to Europe and that climate had not changed substantially in the past 1000 years, until the warming from 1983-1997. The statistical error used in the calculation yielding the hockey stick was discovered by McKitrick. [12. ""The Mann et al Northern Hemisphere 'Hockey Stick': A Tale of Due Diligence."" published in ""Shattered Consensus"" edited by Patrick Michaels]. A good summary by a scientist who believes in human-caused global warming is from the MIT magazine Technology Review. [13. http://www.technologyreview.com...] The Wikipedia article, heavily biased towards CO2 theory claims that the hockey stick has since been proved because a recent analysis shows that recent temperatures were higher than the Medieval Warm Period [14. http://en.wikipedia.org...] However, the accompanying graph shows that the MWP and the Little Ice Age existed as worldwide climate change, which is what the hockey stick was mainly supposed to disprove. The most recent reconstruction [3] clearly disproves the hockey stick. CO2 follows temperature increase That CO2 lags temperature in past climate is well known, but I apologize for giving the wrong link in the previous round. A journal article published in 2012 gives the result: Our analyses of ice cores from the ice sheet in Antarctica shows that the concentration of CO2 in the atmosphere follows the rise in Antarctic temperatures very closely and is staggered by a few hundred years at most, - Sune Olander Rasmussen [15. Watt provides graphs and links the Rasmussen paper http://wattsupwiththat.com...] Another set of graphs showing the lag is given at [16. http://joannenova.com.au...] Total sea ice is at a high Pro argued that shrinking Arctic ice proved that CO2 causes global warming. I pointed out that Antarctic ice is expanding, contradicting CO2 theory, and in keeping with the historically observed Pacific Decadal Oscillation (PDO). Pro responded that the ice doesn't melt until above the freezing point. Sure, but how was melting Arctic ice supposed to prove CO2 theory? The Antarctic ice has rapidly expanded since 2010, when Al Gore predicted it would be all gone by 2013. What this proves is that CO2 is not dominating climate. The natural PDO, not in the CO2 climate models is dominating the ice levels. The PDO seems to be linked to the second of three overlapping solar cycles, but the causation is unproved. Future CO2 levels are unknown I noted that even if CO2 dominates climate, there is no confident prediction of future CO2 levels. Nearly everyone agrees that the world is running out of fossil fuels, so there is an aggressive search for alternatives. A technological breakthrough, or a simple substantial rise in the price of oil could substantially lower the rate of CO2 increase. Pro did not respond."	CON	34
34	S61b46552-A2c21cb4f	Anthropogenic global climate change.	"""There are some scholarly peer reviewed studies that claim man made global climate change doesn't exist but they are in the vast minority. 'The 928 papers were divided into six categories: explicit endorsement of the consensus position, evaluation of impacts, mitigation proposals, methods, paleoclimate analysis, and rejection of the consensus position. Of all the papers, 75% fell into the first three categories, either explicitly or implicitly accepting the consensus view; 25% dealt with methods or paleoclimate, taking no position on current anthropogenic climate change. Remarkably, none of the papers disagreed with the consensus position.' [1]"" - Stupidape As I had stated in my Round 3 argument, those consensuses are unreliable as they focus on a small amount of climate scientists and not all of the climate scientists as it is claimed. So you can't say 97% of climate scientists agree because 97% of people in a consensus believe in anthropogenic climate change. ""The 800 year lag is a misunderstanding of the Milankovitch cycle. 'The outgassing of CO2 from the ocean has several effects. The increased CO2 in the atmosphere amplifies the original warming. The relatively weak forcing from Milankovitch cycles is insufficient to cause the dramatic temperature change taking our climate out of an ice age (this period is called a deglaciation). However, the amplifying effect of CO2 is consistent with the observed warming.' [13]""- Stupidape The lag isn't a misunderstanding; it's evident. If you look at the graph, you can clearly see the lag of CO2 behind temperature [1]. And there have been times where CO2 and temperature went in opposite directions, which contradicts the theory of CO2 affecting temperature. ""'Though some of the CRU emails can sound damning when quoted out of context, several inquiries have cleared the scientists. The Independent Climate Change Email Review put the emails into context by investigating the main allegations. It found the scientists' rigour and honesty are not in doubt, and their behaviour did not prejudice the IPCC's conclusions, though they did fail to display the proper degree of openness. The CRU emails do not negate the mountain of evidence for AGW.' [14]"" - Stupidape If you look at the emails in full context, you can see that the scientists manipulated data to prove their research, and knew that global warming wasn't man made [2]. ""The scientists were honest, the quotes were out of context. As for your quote from nationalreview, nationalreview is very bias.""- Stupidape Actually, according to the website you sourced, National Review has a high rating of factual reporting [3] . ""Has a right wing bias in reporting, but is well sourced and mostly factual with news."" And it's also hippocritical of you to call me out on bias sources, as your arguments are chock FULL of them. Greenpeace, one of your sources, was categgorized under ""Conspiracy-Psudoscience"", which is for sources that ""publish false information that cannot be validated or are related to pseudoscience. The information on these sites is speculation that is not supported by evidence. These are the most untrustworthy sources in media."" [4], noting on Greenpeace that it is a ""Left wing environmental activist group. Strays from science on a few issues, otherwise not too bad."" Next is Thinkprogress, which has a large liberal bias. Here's what the media fact checking website said about them: ""ThinkProgress is an American political news blog. It is a project of the Center for American Progress, a progressive public policy research and advocacy organization. Has a left wing bias in story selection and has failed some fact checks including these from Snopes.""[5]. Here you are critisizing me for using a source with a right wing bias, yet you're using a source that actually FAILED factchecks. And finally, there's skeptical science. A website started by and managed by scientist John Cook, famous for, as I pointed out, manipulated information to push his political agenda. ""However, inspection of a claim by Cook et al. (Environ Res Lett 8:024024, 2013) of 97.1 % consensus, heavily relied upon by Bedford and Cook, shows just 0.3 % endorsement of the standard definition of consensus: that most warming since 1950 is anthropogenic. Agnotology, then, is a two-edged sword since either side in a debate may claim that general ignorance arises from misinformation allegedly circulated by the other. Significant questions about anthropogenic influences on climate remain. Therefore, Legates et al. appropriately asserted that partisan presentations of controversies stifle debate and have no place in education.""[6]. As for my argument about Mars, we know enough to say that it isn't the CO2 levels. So with that in mind, and the fact that it is the closest planet to Earth, it throws the argument of man made climate change into question, for if CO2 doesn't raise Mars' temperature, then it can't raise Earth's. Nice debating you. Sources [1]- http://joannenova.com.au... [2]- http://pastebin.com... [3]- https://mediabiasfactcheck.com... [4]- https://mediabiasfactcheck.com... [5]- https://mediabiasfactcheck.com... [6]-https://wattsupwiththat.com..."	CON	35
35	Sdc9f0311-A83125848	There is no anthropomorphic global warming	"The majority of your previous post was a continuation of the arguments that I pointed out were incorrect in my previous posts. Plausibility does not mean reality. Yes, I agree that one can prove and have proven that co2 can act as a green house gas and can theoretically warm the planet. Where I disagree is that co2 has been proven to be the cause of global warming. Yes, I will agree that in miniscule amounts it probably does warm the planet. I do not think though that it has been proven that it raises temperatures significantly. Even in your 'runaway' co2 warming hypothesis, there is not evidence that co2 causes additional warming. The co2 is the effect, not the cause of warming. But I will take this further and argue that the entire field of climate science is too uncertain for any to be able to prove that man made global warming is fact. Consider http://www.sciencedaily.com... ""The researchers estimate that this effect could cut by two-thirds the projected increase in global temperatures initiated by a doubling of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere."" How do you know that increasing co2 didn't 'cause' this vent to work? Or any other natural self regulation? It's the same with co2 acting as a fertizer for more plant growth. Not to mention our minimal knowledge of cloud formation. And I do not agree with your contention that solar variability is irrelevent: http://www.theminorityreportblog.com... Variations in solar energy as a driver for global climate change have been wholly discounted by the IPCC and climate modellers on the basis that something they call Total Solar Irradiance has not changed enough between 1975 and 1998 to make a significant contribution to the climate warming observed during that period. It is because solar influences have been discounted that the IPCC and climate modellers have been determined to attribute most of the observed warming during that period to an enhanced greenhouse effect caused by CO2 produced by human activity. Consequently the climate models currently in use contain no solar effects as a component. This article shows that they are wrong and that, in fact, solar energy is and always has been the overwhelming primary driver for global temperature with CO2 such a minor component that it should be ignored. Due to the differences in scale between the solar effect and the effect of CO2 the latter is only ever going to have a marginal effect at and around the peak of any natural warming trend and is unlikely to activate any tipping point that would not have been activated by natural cause. Indeed, during natural cooling spells CO2 will be a wholly beneficial mitigating factor. This article will then go on to identify the additional parameters apart from solar activity that will need to be measured to give us a workable if approximate predictor of global temperature movements. Showing that solar energy has been the predominant driver throughout history prior to the industrial revolution is not difficult."" There is so much unknown and so much complexity that at this point it is impossible to categorically say that man is causing global warming."	PRO	36
36	S8006a72b-A6192cada	Global Warming is Man-Made	AGW Models fail, so the theory is wrong We have agreed on a couple of basic points of climate science: 1. If AGW is true then warming should occur as a straight line over time. 2. The heat output of the sun is not changing, so that isn't upsetting the straight line AGW So, if AGW has dominated climate over last century then we should see a straight line increase in temperature over the century, with just short term variations due to weather. Here is the temperature data. Pro told us in his initial argument that the minimum value for climate sensitivity under AGW is 3 degrees per century. He said it might be more, but it's at least three degrees. To test if AGW dominates climate, we can see how close the temperature data is to a straight line with a three dree slope. I took the temperature from Wikipedia [1] and added the line (in blue) predicted by AGW: Clearly AGW theory is wrong. It's possible that carbon dioxide is adding a temperature increase to climate just as AGW predicts, but that some other unaccounted factor is canceling the AGW before about 1980 and after about 2000. Our debate is about whether AGW dominates climate, so if it is try that an unknown factor completely changes climate from what AGW contributes, then it is the unknown factor that dominates, not AGW. Why did a theory so far from the data ever take hold? The problem AGW attempts to explain is the rise from about 1980 to 1996, and many atmospheric scientists could not come up with an explanation other than CO2. To explain all the pre-1980 data that did not conform, Professor Mann and his colleagues came up with the Hockey Stick curve, that purported to show that climate had not changed at all in the past 1000 years. The Hockey Stick turned out to be the product of a bad statistical method that selected proxies for temperature that were unrelated to temperature. The current Wikipedia article on the Hockey Stick shows the Medieval Warm Period and the Little Ice Age as global climate change. Both are explained by solar magnetic theory. The fatal blow to AGW theory is the lack of warming since 1996. The blue curve on the graph shows how far we are below the AGW theoretical prediction. Pro argues that the HADCru data shows some warming, but there is close to universal agreement that the models have failed. HADCru uses ground station data which focuses on urban areas that warm due to growth with surrounding population increase. The satellite data covers the whole earth with no such complications. NASA acknowledges the pause in global warming [2] the pause in global surface temperature that began in 1997, according to some estimates, continues, wrote David Whitehouse, who holds a doctorate in astrophysics and was the BBCs science editor. Statistically speaking there has been no trend in global temperatures over this period. HADCru fully acknowledges the existence of the pause in global warming, but dutifully insists that the underlying AGW has just been overcome by other factors. Those factors must, of course, now dominate AGW. [3] Papers by von Storch [4] and Rasmussen [5], both previously vigorous defenders of AGW, show the AGW models have failed. Not only have the models failed, but there is no way to tweak them, say by changing climate sensitivity, to get them to fit the data. A book by Tisdale [6] shows graphically that the models cannot be fixed. Measures of Solar Activity Remember, I'm not obliged to explain why the AGW models have failed, only that there is no possibility that the AGW linear trend of 3 degrees per century, which Pro claimed as all but certain science, is not true so that AGW is not dominating climate. The exact nature of the sun's influence on climate is not known, and Pro argues convoincingly that the length of the solar cycle has not been born out as being as good a predictor as thought. Nonetheless the correlation to solar activity remains strong. The long Medieval Cold Period, the Medieval Warm Period, and the Little Ice Age all corrsponded to solar activity. [6] Right now we are in a period of decreasing sunspot activity [7]: That the correlation to sunspot activity is not perfect means no more than that climate is complex. To say that AGW dominates climate is unfounded, because there is all but universal agreement that the models have failed. Paleoclimate That CO2 lags warming is uncontested basic physics. As the oceans heat, CO2 comes out of solution and CO2 enters the atmosphere. If it amplifies heating trends, that is no proof that CO2 dominates climate. Whatever starts and ends the heating trend dominates climate and CO2 magnifies the swings in boith directions. Whether the present is warmer than the Medieval Warm Period or the Roman Warm Period is not the slightest proof of what caused any of the warming or cooling. What is does show is that substantial warming in past climate has happened without any CO2 effect. If we got nearly as warm as the present in the MWP. then whatever caused that was not CO2 and may be working now. The long history of climate shows very little relationship to CO2, and Pro acknoweldges that. So what factors were at work, and how do we know what is at work now? Variations in the earth's orbit are not nearly enough to explain the changes. We have some ideas, but there is nothing that's proved reliable, especially not AGW theory. Pro burden is no more than to prove that AGW dominates climate. He has not done so.	CON	37
37	S422c0992-Ace93a5eb	Climate Change is driven by human CO2 emissions	"My opponent as PRO has the BOP, this shall not be negotiated. Definitions: CO2 emissions: ""emissions of CO2 from burning oil, coal and gas for energy use. Carbon dioxide also enters the Atmosphere from burning wood and waste materials and from some industrial processes such as cement production. Emissions of CO2 from these sources are a relatively small part of global emissions and are not included in these statistics.""[1] In other words, it is a naturally occurring gas that supposedly causes the majority of global warming. ==> What we argue <== PRO (my opponent) argues these CO2 emissions cause global warming (which we assume exists). CON argues that global warming is primarily controlled by human emissions. In this debate I must provide a time frame. The little ice age - present. 1st round acceptance by PRO. No abusive arguments please. [1] http://www.wikiprogress.org..."	CON	38
38	Saa3d5131-Ad2e7a329	Mankind Is Not the Main Cause of Global Warming	"Thanks to subutai for providing an interesting and educational case for me to analyze and rebut! Rebuttals Due to the loose structure of my opponents case, rebutting it proves difficult, as his contentions are not itemized. Nevertheless, I am going to itemize the case, and then attack each aspect of it. My opponents case, as I understand it, appears to be this: 1. Solar activity increases deflection of cosmic rays 2. Cosmic rays increase cloud cover 3. Less cosmic rays means less cloud cover 4. Less cloud cover results in temperature increase 5. Solar activity is the main cause of modern global warming. The first, second and third premise is not at all confirmed by scientific evidence, nor is it agreed upon in the scientific community, unlike molecular vibrations. The fifth premise matters greatly, and I will rebut it with one main counter contention, which relies on one simple fact: my opponent provides precisely zero evidence that solar activity has been increased in recent years. Yes he may have shown that historically the solar cycles has had some influence on warming/cooling periods, but he totally fails to prove why this warming period is due to solar cycles. A) Solar Activity/Cycles cannot be responsible for modern global warming. -I. Though warming is occurring at record breaking rates, solar activity is at its lowest for the past 100 years. One major flaw we see in my opponents argument is that it is all based solely on the assumption that solar activity is currently increased, thus deflect cosmic rays, and resulting in warming. Yet this is not the case. Solar activity is actually at a 100 year low [1]. Here we can see each and every ""flare"" cycle becoming weaker and weaker. Solar activity is declining. Rapidly. [2] We are even currently expecting a minimum similar to the maunder and Dalton minimums my opponent cited (periods of significant global cooling). How can solar activity possibly be the cause of modern global warming, if solar activity (the cause claimed by my opponent) is decreasing so quickly?! Furthermore, the very study my opponent claims to ""end the debate right there,"" the scafetta and west study, states explicitly ""since 1975 global warming has occurred much faster than could reasonably be expected from the sun alone."" [3, page 4]. The expected solar minima of 2006 [2] is now 8 years past, and yet the temperature continues to rise incredibly rapidly, with accelerating pace! My opponent cannot claim that the cooling has not yet occurred due to ""latency cause by the oceans heat capacity."" If we expected cooling to occur within the next 5 years, the heating rate would be slowing, not increasing. The very graph that my opponent uses to seal in his argument referencing the medieval warming period is an outdated graph, debunked in the hockey stick controversy. Here is that same graph in red: Compare the IPCC 1990 (red) to the now corrected IPCC 2001 (blue) and Moberg et. al (black). The warming indicated by the graph my opponent was exaggerated as it was collected with flawed techniques pre-Kyoto protocol. Furthermore, the hatched green line shows modern warming trends, which easily blow these older warming periods out of the water in both rapidity and magnitude. Here is a even more detailed graph, compiled from from a preponderance of sources. (North et. al [4]) We can still easily observe the medieval warming period, but with our data collection methods corrected, we can see that this warming period pales in comparison to the modern warming rates, with 2004 massively overshadowing the medieval warming period. Keep in mind, warming has only increased in rapidity since 2004. Benestadt and Schmidt show us that the sun could only have contributed to 7% (+/- 1%) of warming since 1950 [5]. ""A full reading of Tung 2008 finds a distinct 11 year solar signal in the global temperature record. However, this 11 year cycle is superimposed over the long term global warming trend. In fact, the authors go on to estimate climate sensitivity from their findings, calculate a value between 2.3 to 4.1C. This confirms the IPCC estimate ofclimate sensitivity."" [8] ""In the last 35 years of global warming, the sun has shown a slight cooling trend. Sun and climate have been going in opposite directions. In the past century, the Sun can explain some of the increase in global temperatures, but a relatively small amount."" [9] ""Hypothetically, an increasing solar magnetic field could deflect galactic cosmic rays, which hypothetically seed low-level clouds, thus decreasing the Earth's reflectivity and causing global warming. However, it turns out that none of these hypothetical are occurring in reality, and if cosmic rays were able to influence global temperatures, they would be having a cooling effect."" [10] In response to my opponents point regarding the warming of other planets, ""There are three fundamental flaws in the 'other planets are warming' argument. Not all planets in the solar system are warming. The sun has shown no long term trend since 1950 and in fact has shown a slight cooling trend in recent decades. There are explanations for why other planets are warming."" [11] My opponent can come up with as many possibilities and theoreticals as he pleases, but the fact remains that actual scientific data flies in the face of every claim that he makes. When empiric data is observed, we see that solar activity is lowering while heating is increasing. We see that cosmic rays have no significant demonstrable effect on the environment. When we compare this to the Con case, we see that the evidence obviously weighs in the Cons favor. Molecular vibration and VSEPR theory are established scientific phenomena. The nature of GHGs is well understood. The scientific community has collected a massive preponderance of evidence. Summary The claim that the sun is causing global warming is patently false, as is shown by an overwhelming number of reliable and scientific sources. Solar activity is decreasing, and the planet is warming. The correllary between my opponents case, and the actual state of nature is in direct clash. My opponents case holds no water. -II. Attack on opponents sources As I feel I have successfully rebutted all notions that solar activity could be the cause of modern global warming, I will now take a moment to analyze my opponents sources, and debase them. Let's start with source 3. Here is a direct quote from my opponents third round 2 source ""The IPCC stance with respect to the issue is a conservative one. While the panel's 1990 report states that changes in the output of energy from the sun do have an effect on climate, as determined by the 11-year solar cycle, its most recent report states that the role of solar output remains uncertain. The panel simultaneously stresses the significance of increasing CO2 concentrations on climate, thus indicating that a great deal more needs to be learned about solar activity before it is considered as a major factor in forcing climate change."" Source 5: This comes from a forbes.com op/ed blog (a financial blog). The relevance of this source is obviously questionable. EVEN THEN as a skeptic he EXPLICITLY states that the impact of solar cycles is likely minimal. Quote, ""We know the relevant effects exist in a lab, and are fairly certain they exist in nature, but we are uncertain how sensitive the actual climate is to these effects."" Source 6: This comes from a popsci article. Popsci is not a peer reviewed journal, and the author does not directly cite any authority, but upon reading the article, we again see that the emphasis is that there is a ""possible"" link between solar cycles, cosmic rays, and cloud cover. Source 7, and 13: Watts Up With That is merely a blog notorious for spreading disinformation, and purposefully skewing data to debase the credibility of AGW scientists. ""Willard Anthony Watts (Anthony Watts) is a blogger, weathercaster and non-scientist, paid AGW denier who runs the website wattsupwiththat.com. He does not have a university qualification and has no climate credentials other than being a radio weather announcer. His website is parodied and debunked at the website wottsupwiththat.com Watts is on the payroll of the Heartland Institute, which itself is funded by polluting industries."" [6] Watts isn't even a certified meteorologist. Source 8: The Fred and Avery study, famous for being fueled by spending from, surprise, the Heartland Institute. ""The existence of climate changes in the past is not news to the climate change scientific community; there is a whole chapter about it in the upcoming IPCC Scientific Assessment. Nor do past, natural variations in climate negate the global warming forecast. Most past climate changes, like the glacial interglacial cycle, can be explained based on changes in solar heating and greenhouse gases, but the warming in the last few decades cannot be explained without the impact of human-released greenhouse gases. Avery was very careful to crop his temperature plots at 1985, rather than show the data to 2005."" [7] Source 9, 11, 12: All blogs published by non-experts, without citation to legitimate reliable sources. Summary The whole of my opponents sources are questionable at best. The ""facts"" of his case hold no water, no reliability, and no authority. His case is simply unacceptable due to the illegitimacy of his sources. Sources in comments"	CON	39
39	S70f48902-Ab3ac95e0	Mankind Is the Main Cause of Global Warming	Overviews OV1: I *did* define global warming in R1, thus Cons objection regarding there being no definition of global warming is invalid. OV2: The first round was supposed to be *only* for acceptance--thus, I request Con to pass the final round to equalize the # of rounds. OV3: I shall only present my own case in this round, and rebut Cons case in the next. C1) Climate sensitivity is likely high CO2 climate sensitivity is the rise in equilibrium temperature with rise in CO2 concentration in the Earths atmosphere [1], especially calculated with a 2x rise in CO2 levels and its correlation with atmospheric temperature levels. Idso (1998) and Shaviv (2005) predict that non-amplified mean CO2 sensitivity is 1 degree celsius [2][3], thus there would be a 1 degree celsius rise in temperature with doubling CO2 concentration. But the effects of CO2 on equilibrium atmospheric temperature is amplified by climate feedbacks. A feedback is something that causes a variation in sensitivity via. generally environmental means [4], and can be positive or negative in nature. A positive feedback is a feedback that causes a rise in overall climate sensitivity, while a negative feedback causes a drop in climate sensitivity [5]. Various studies report positive feedbacks as more likely. Soden and Held (2005) reported a 2 degree celsius climate sensitivity due to positive feedbacks [6]. The study reports very few negative feedbacks. Water vapor is found to provide the largest positive feedback in all models and its strength is consistent with that expected from constant relative humidity changes in the water vapor mixing ratio. The feedbacks from clouds and surface albedo are also found to be positive in all models, while the only stabilizing (negative) feedback comes from the temperature response. [7] Colman (2003) reports a feedback of nearly 3 degrees celsius, and the paper is cited by Soden and Held. In the study, [a] comparison is performed for water vapour, cloud, albedo and lapse rate feedbacks taken from published results of offline feedback calculations for general circulation models (GCMs) with mixed layer oceans performing 2 x CO2 and solar perturbation experiments. [8] There is much evidence outside climate models as well. Wigley, et al. (2005) reports a possible sensitivity of greater than 4.5 degrees celsius due to extremely high positive feedback levels, and supports an average sensitivity of 3.5 degrees [9]. The study says, After the maximum cooling for low-latitude eruptions the temperature relaxes back toward the initial state with an e-folding time of 2943 months for sensitivities of 14 degrees C equilibrium warming for CO2 doubling. [10] Additionally, using volcanic activity, Forster and Gregory (2005) predict an amplified climate sensitivity of around 1 to 4.1 degrees C [11]. Even in a hypothetical scenario where negative feedbacks cancel out positive feedbacks to a climate sensitivity of 1 degree C, research by Ziskin and Shaviv (2011) has predicted that the largest contribution to the 20th century warming comes from anthropogenic sources. [12] They find that of the ~0.7 degree C temperature rise in the 20th century (some estimates slightly higher), about 0.4 degrees of that are due to anthropogenic forgings, or about 57% of the warming. A significant body of research notes that climate sensitivity is probably much higher, approximately 3 degrees C with a range of 2 to 4.5 degrees C. Their findings can be seen in the graph below [13]. Thus, I have demonstrated that climate sensitivity is high and the climate system is predominated by positive feedback mechanisms. C2) Paleoclimate In the Cenozoic era (the last 65 million years), overall solar activity has risen 0.4%. Because Earth absorbs about 240 W/m^2 of solar energy, that brightness increase is a forcing of about 1 W/m^2. This small linear increase of forcing, by itself, would have caused a modest global warming through the Cenozoic Era. [14] The study reports that carbon dioxide is the dominant force behind temperature rise and rise in solar activity in the Cenozoic. Royer, et al. (2004) notes that CO2 drives Phanerozoic temperature, and writes, Atmospheric CO2 is an important greenhouse gas, and because of its short residence time (~4 yr) and numerous sources and sinks, it has the potential to regulate climate over a vast range of timescales, from years to millions of years. [15] The temperature changes of the Cenozoic correspond to CO2 changes. [T]here is a close correlation between Antarctic temperature and atmospheric concentrations of CO2 (Barnola et al. 1987). The extension of the Vostok CO2 record shows that the main trends of CO2 are similar for each glacial cycle. Major transitions from the lowest to the highest values are associated with glacial-interglacial transitions. During these transitions, the atmospheric concentrations of CO2 rises from 180 to 280-300 ppmv (Petit et al. 1999). The extension of the Vostok CO2 record shows the present-day levels of CO2 are unprecedented during the past 420 kyr. [16] Harries, et al. (2001) finds that CO2 traps solar radiation, thus increasing solar radiations interaction with the Earths atmospheric temperatures [17]. Satellites have reportedly found direct experimental evidence for a significant increase in the Earth's greenhouse effect [because of CO2]. [18] It is known that CO2 levels are increasing. In pre-industrial times over the last 10,000 years, CO2 was relatively stable at around 275 to 285 parts per million. Over the last 250 years, atmospheric CO2 levels have increased by about 100 parts per million. [19] The graph below illustrates increasing CO2 levels [20]. It is well known that carbon dioxide is the primary greenhouse gas emitted through human activity. Human activities are altering the carbon cycleboth by adding more CO2 to the atmosphere and by influencing the ability of natural sinks, like forests, to remove CO2 from the atmosphere. While CO2 emissions come from a variety of natural sources, human-related emissions are responsible for the increase that has occurred in the atmosphere since the industrial revolution. [21] It is, according to most paleoclimatological studies, warmer now than the Roman warm period or the medieval warm period, primarily because of human-caused CO2 influence [22]. Thus, I affirm. Over to Con. 1. http://www.pik-potsdam.de... 2. http://www.int-res.com... 3. http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com... 4. http://www.scribd.com... 5. http://www.ipcc.ch... 6. http://www.gfdl.noaa.gov... 7. Ibid. 8. http://link.springer.com... 9. http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com... 10. Ibid. 11. http://homepages.see.leeds.ac.uk... 12. http://www.phys.huji.ac.il... 13. http://www.iac.ethz.ch... 14. http://www.columbia.edu... 15. http://droyer.web.wesleyan.edu... 16. http://cdiac.ornl.gov... 17. http://www.nature.com... 18. Ibid. 19. http://www.skepticalscience.com... 20. http://www.esrl.noaa.gov... 21. http://www.epa.gov... 22. http://www.atmosp.physics.utoronto.ca...	PRO	40
40	S5d920354-A2e52488	Global Warming is Real and is Manmade!	"In this ROUND--the final ROUND--I will explain what it is about carbon dioxide, water vapor, and methane that allow them to be heat-trapping greenhouse gases. I will also briefly explain how global warming facilitates climate change and then go over the various effects of climate change that are occurring because of rising surface temperatures. Carbon Dioxide (and other Green House Gases) Generate the Greenhouse Effect by Absorbing and Emiting Infrared Radiation (a.k.a. Heat) Atoms and molecules can absorb electromagnetic radiation, but only at certain energies (wavelengths) [1]. The electromagnetic spectrum is illustrated directly below. When the sun emits energy it principally does so in the form of electromagnetic radiation. Our human eyes can only detect radiation between 300 and 800 nanometers in wavelength (1 billion nanometers = 1 meter); this is called the ""visible portion"" of the spectrum [1]. Radiation of a different wavelength can also be detected, but not visibly by our eyes. Radiation that falls between 700 nanometers to 1 millimeter is infrared radiation, and it can be detected indirectly as heat, or the vibrational-rotational movements of molecules [2]. (Other wavelengths of the electromagnetic spectrum also contribute to heat.) Carbon dioxide (illustrated below) is special because it absorbs and emits electromagnetic radiation in the infrared portion of the spectrum [3]; this means that it has an inclination to trap heat radiation coming both from the sun and bouncing off the Earth's surface [1]. Because CO2 absorbs heat radiation (which is a form of energy), that means the molecule will rotate and vibrate fiercely to contribute to heating (kinetic motion) and the greenhouse gas effect [1]. CO2 absorbs infrared ""heat"" radiation at 4.26 micrometers and 15.0 micrometer wavelengths; this causes the molecule to vibrate in several possible ways (illustrated directly below) [1]. When the molecule absorbs a photon of radiation at 4.26 micrometers wavelength, this causes it stretch either symmetrically (A in the picture above) or asymmetrically (B); when it absorbs a photon of radiation at 15.0 micrometers wavelength, this causes it to undergo one of two bending vibrations (C or D) [1]. It's this molecular phenomena that contributes to the greenhouse gas effect and to gradual global warming, as carbon dioxide and other other green house gases increase in concentration in the atmosphere [1][3]. Water vapor, methane and other greenhouse gases have identical methods of trapping heat [3]. Even though there are a variety of natural ""sinks"" to take up carbon dioxide and remove it from the atmosphere, the molecule continues to accumulate because of human activity and is forcing the current global warming trend [3][4]. Carbon dioxide is regarded as the fiercest driver of global warming because it is the most emitted green house gas by human activity and because it remains in the atmosphere far longer than the other major global warming gases [4]. Where it takes methane a decade to leave the atmosphere (unfortunately it converts to carbon dioxide), it takes carbon dioxide about a century to exit the atmosphere, though 20% of what is emitted will remain 800 years from now [4]. Water vapor on the other hand only stays in the atmosphere for a couple of days before it falls to Earth; this is why it's rarely discussed as a driver of global warming [4]. The Link Between Global Warming and Climate Change Rising global temperatures caused by human activity are having a drastic impact on physical and biological processes across the Earth. Besides those effects I went over in ROUND 2, there are numerous other consequences that are occurring as a result of global warming. Increasing global temperatures are causing polar sea ice and worldwide land ice to melt, which is causing oceanic sea levels to rise and coastal land to disappear. But global warming is having other adverse effects on the globe too, which includes alterations to the Earth's climate systems, changes in bird migration, greater intensity in forest fires, and a reduction in local freshwater supplies throughout the planet. According to two recent independent studies--one conducted by NASA in collaboration with the University of California, Irvine and the other by the University of Washington--the rate of sea level rise is accelerating and the oceanic sea level should be expected to rise by as much as 10 feet within the next two centuries [5]. The reason for the acceleration, the researchers say, is because the West Antarctic ice sheet is melting and it now appears to be unstoppable. The source of the problem is that warmer water (generated by anthropogenic global warming) stirred by Antarctic winds is melting the underside of the ice sheet, which is causing it to retreat and become thinner over time [5]. A 10-foot rise in sea levels would force much of Southern Florida under water (picture below) and it would cause large swathes of New York city's densely populated areas to become swamped [5]; 20 percent of Los Angeles would also find itself under water [6]. Just recently, on March 20th, NASA announced that sea level rise is threatening most of its launch pads and multi-billion dollar complexes; currently the space agency is building sea walls and moving some buildings further inland to avoid the rising sea line [7]. As the picture directly below illustrates, global warming is altering physical and biological processes in numerous ways. Global warming is generating less snow and land ice, which is resulting in a reduced freshwater supply in numerous locations around the world (including the U.S.) [8]; it is also changing rain and snow patterns and resulting in stronger storms [9]. Scientists say this is because storms feed off of latent heat energy; extra heat in the atmosphere or in the oceans (generated by global warming) nourishes storms and strengthens them [9]. There is some speculation that global warming may be decreasing the frequency of storm systems, but there is also strong evidence that storms are becoming more severe and developing more rapidly than just a few decades ago [9][10]. Besides increasing global temperatures, the current manmade warming trend is also resulting in more heat waves, more frequent droughts and intensifying wildfires [11]. Says geoscientist Jonathan Overpeck at the University of Arizona: ""The [recent] fires in [Southern] California and here in Arizona are a clear example of what happens as the Earth warms, particularly as the West warms, and the warming caused by humans is making fire season longer and longer with each decade. It's certainly an example of what we'll see more of in the future"" [11]. Global warming is also making seas and oceans warmer, damaging natural coral reefs [12], and melting permafrost [13]. As global temperatures rise and the oceans get warmer and become more concentrated in carbon dioxide, natural corals erode which diminishes biodiversity in the planet's oceans; global warming poses a direct threat on the coral reefs surrounding Florida, Puerto Rico, and Hawaii [12]. Global warming and climate change are having a major effect on animal and plant life around the world. Researchers with NASA's Goddard Institute for Space Studies show that trees are now leafing earlier and that some species are retreating into higher latitudes as the Earth warms [13]. Among the alarming findings [13]: polar bears are seeing their numbers plummet and their sources of food become scare, which is causing them to resort to cannibalism; earlier breeding and migration of birds worldwide; earlier peak migration of Atlantic salmon; earlier spring flight of butterlies and mollusks in California; earlier breakup and later freezing dates in lake and river ice cover; marmots are emerging 38 days earlier in the Rockies; earlier egg-laying of birds; long-term changes within fish communities; earlier pollen release in some plant species; a rapid decline in the Emperor penguin population in Antarctica; long-term decline in krill stock in the Southern Oceans; rising plankton abudance in cooler ocean waters, the opposite in warmer waters. Global warming and climate change clearly has a large array of effects [13]. The effects on human life are numerous, but global warming is also currently transforming agricultural yields around the world; the picture below illustrates the long-term impact of global warming on agricultural output around the world [14]. [1] (http://www.wag.caltech.edu...) [2] (http://en.wikipedia.org...) [3] (http://en.wikipedia.org...) [4] (http://www.ucsusa.org...) [5] (http://www.thestreet.com...) [6] (http://www.businessinsider.com...) [7] (http://news.yahoo.com...) [8] (http://news.mongabay.com...) [9] (http://earthobservatory.nasa.gov...) [10] (http://www.accuweather.com...) [11] (http://news.yahoo.com...) [12] (http://www.nwf.org...) [13] (http://www.giss.nasa.gov...) [14] (http://www.imf.org...)"	PRO	41
41	Sa80b0a3-A90d585c5	Resolved: Human Activity Is a Significant Factor in Global Warming on Planet Earth.	Thank you to Medv4380 for accepting this debate. However, they have yet to respond and start accepting debate challenges. The voting floor is set at 1500. If accepted without permission, Pro automatically wins the debate. ______________________________________________________________ I will add in definitions to prevent semantics arguments from arising. DEFINITIONS Human activity: Activity associated with or caused by humans. Global Warming: The state of which the Earth's temperature progressively and abnormally rises, which is attributed to the Greenhouse Effect that is caused by increased levels of carbon dioxide, other greenhouse gases, and pollutants in general. REMEMBER, THIS REFERS TO THE WARMING IN THE PAST 115 YEARS. Planet Earth: The 3rd closest planet from the Sun in the solar system, which is known for being the only known planet that currently sustains life. Significant: Sufficiently great or important to be worthy of attention as viewed by the judges with statistically large sample sizes Rules: 1. Breaking any rules (except for rules related to voting) will result in automatic forfeiture of all seven points to the opponent. If both sides break the rules, votes will be placed as normal. Invalid votes will result in reporting the vote. 2. No semantics. 3. No forfeiture. 4. No Ad Hominem OR mere insults 5. Plagiarism is absolutely prohibited. 6. All arguments must be contained within the character limit. Words or characters on videos, soundtracks or pictures are exempted and do not apply. Sources are also exempted. 7. (Branches off from above rule) Extra arguments in the comments section are forbidden. 8. The debate must be followed under the below structure: Round 1: Acceptance. Round 2: Opening arguments and Constructive Case, NO REBUTTALS Round 3: More arguments, Rebuttals and Strengthening of original case Round 4: Final arguments, Clarification of case, counter-rebuttals and rebuttals Round 5: Clarification of case, Counter rebuttals, rebuttals, closing statements, NO NEW ARGUMENTS 9. No trolling or spamming. 10. No cheating (Gish-gallop, asking for votes in your favor, etc.) 11. Accepting without permission is a forfeiture of the debate. 12. Kritiks of the topic are not accepted. As shown, first round is acceptance. I look forward to a fun and intriguing debate!	PRO	42
42	Sa80b0a3-Ae60b4af	Resolved: Human Activity Is a Significant Factor in Global Warming on Planet Earth.	"Thanks to my opponent, it's been fun. I will respond to the points my opponent has made in this round, and clarify my case. But first of all, I am sure that I hadn't ignored a piece of my opponent's case. Don't trust this claim as just because a response is brief doesn't mean it's not valid. ==Rebuttal 1: 1970 has more ice than 1870== My opponent is correct that the data is cumulative. However, he drops my response to this when I stated that there was an apparent but brief drop in temperature caused by sulphate aerosols. I don't agree with how my opponent states I must drop the evidence simply because his basis is that there was an increase in ice for 20 years (even though the line starts dropping rapidly). If we were to apply a trend line the line would most definitely be slanted downwards towards the right. His argument doesn't explain the rest of the graph showing sharp declines in ice. I find that my opponent nitpicks at every little flaw that doesn't seem right even though the rest supports my argument, and he ends up dropping the rest of the graph altogether. I think what my opponent focuses the most on, however, is how figures are exaggerated as more and more climate stations are set up, and he attempts to apply that to temperature record figures. However, the notion that temperature record figures are untrustworthy is false, as has been shown throughout the debate [1]: ""For example, a study by Anderson et al. (2012) created a new global surface temperature record reconstruction using 173 records with some type of physical or biological link toglobal surface temperatures (corals, ice cores, speleothems, lake and ocean sediments, and historical documents). The study compared their reconstruction to the instrumental temperature record and found a strong correlation between the two[.]"" - Skeptical Science [1] ==Rebuttal 2: No correlation== This point as a large relation with the first point, and doesn't affect much in the debate. Basically my opponent states that we can't trust graphs that start in the 70's because it was a low point in global warming. There are two points to make: (A) Again, my opponent doesn't focus on the rest of the graphs with clearly agree with my case in the debate. (B) The only figures I gave which started in the 70's are the ones I had replaced with other data. Again, this point is null because it has little to no weight in this debate. ==Rebuttal 3: Pan Evaporation== My opponent drops my response to this argument, where I gave the two statements that (a) we cannot use the method because no sources or figures measuring temperature correlate with pan evaporation, and (b) global warming is found to be affected by human causes the most, as shown in the last round. After doing some research, I found that pan evaporation did have to do with climate, but not with global warming. This extends the point of my rebuttal [2]: ""Pan evaporation is a measurement that combines or integrates the effects of several climate elements: temperature, humidity, rain fall, drought dispersion, solar radiation, and wind. Evaporation is greatest on hot, windy, dry, sunny days; and is greatly reduced when clouds block the sun and when air is cool, calm, and humid. Pan evaporation measurements enable farmers and ranchers to understand how much water their crops will need."" - Wikipedia, The Free Encyclopediia [2] Wikipedia states that pan evaporation helps farmers and ranchers to correctly water their crops. But never does it say anything about energy in the atmosphere. ==Counter 1: Sea Levels== My opponent seems to make a valid point about the glaical and ice contradiction, but it isn't valid. Glaciers hold less than 2% of the water on Earth [3]: ""The amount of water locked up in ice and snow is only about 1.7 percent of all water on Earth[.]"" - Textile Waste Diversion Inc. [3] Glaciers were just a part of my argument to show that ice was melting. The fact that glaciers hold so little of the world's water barely makes any difference in the rise in sea levels, especially since most glaciers exist inland, but not near the oceans, as most glaciers are of the Himalayas, which are inland [4][5]: ""The HimalayanKarakoram (HK) region has among the largest glacier coverage outside the polar regions[.]"" - Estimating the volume of glaciers in the HimalayanKarakoram region using different methods [5] This alone means that glaciers can be used as evidence for global warming, but NOT to disprove its existence. My opponent's rebuttal is null. ==Counter 2: Mixed Methodologies== This, again, is an example of the nitpicking my opponent has done throughout the debate. Correlation =/= imitation. But if my opponent still can't accept my graph, here are the reasons why my opponent's rebuttal isn't coherent: 1. My opponent emphasized a lot on the heat waves of the 30's, so the fact that he's using that to try and prove there isn't a correlation is beyond me. 2. Where the temperature drops out (more so not) of the correlation is so insignificant that it may as well be part of the correlation. Somehow my opponent thinks that a difference in correlation about a millimeter or less for a graph THAT size still counts as proof that the correlation is false. ==Counter 3: Other planets== ""When we burn Coal we actually end up taking O2 out of the air, and put in CO2."" - Opponent My opponent now suddenly agrees that CO2 has a heating effect, which is different from the last few contentions. But if this is untrue, see my previous counter. My opponent also agrees that we are still adding CO2 to the atmosphere, even though oxygen is being taken out of the air. It's basically a concession of this point because my opponent agrees the atmosphere on Venus is thick with greenhous gases. P1) More CO2 in the atmosphere = Earth heats up P2) We are putting more CO2 into the atmosphere C) We are heating up Earth. As for the electromagnetic field, my opponent ignores that Mercury does not have a major electromagnetic field either [6]. ""Mercurys magnetic field is 150 times weaker than that of our planet, however."" - Phys.org [6] And with a distance much smaller from the sun than other planets, you'd expect that Mercury would be hotter. However, BECAUSE Venus has such an atmosphere it is simply that much hotter. ==Dropped arguments== My opponent drops many arguments in the debate, which is lucky because they seem to be important points. He drops the points: - That natural causes have a much smaller heating effect than with human effects - That positive feedbacks amplify heating effects - That the increase in glaciers is probably due to the brief drops in temperature that were only temporary and caused by humans as well - That methodology changes don't change the actual temperature - That we can't use pan evaporation because it is not relevant to the debate - That temperatures are perfectly fine evidence in terms of this debate - That the corrections made in NASA's graph do not make much difference - That newer sources are usually more trustworthy, especially when made by a government website Those are the ones that I can think of at the top of my head, and there could be more. Don't let my opponent respond to them because it is unfair if he responds when I can't. ==Conclusion== There are huge holes in my opponent's argument, as well as big contradictions. Their arguments are more like theories (or even just hypotheses) because they nitpick at things if something isn't perfect. And my opponent can throw any theory he wants at me but scientific research somehow, as tylergraham said, always seems to fly in his face. The resolution is soundly affirmed. ==Sources== [1] http://www.skepticalscience.com... [2] https://en.wikipedia.org... [3] http://textilewastediversion.com... [4] http://oi52.tinypic.com... [5] http://www.the-cryosphere.net... [6] http://phys.org... Final round to con!"	PRO	43
43	Sc09112b2-Ad0ff12f2	Humanity is the main cause of global warming.	"Yes, I agree with Pro's sources in Round 5 that list all of the ways in which human activity plays a role in affecting global climate. Unfortunately, Pro failed to acknowledge the issue of ""Attribution of Recent Climate Change"" which I brought up in Round 4. Without doing so, it is impossible to conclude that ""...Humanity is the Main Cause of Global Warming"" as Pro has done. To further bolster my argument, I will reference the 376 page scholarly book (published in 2015) ""Climate Change, Multidecadal and Beyond"" https://books.google.ca... which flatly states outright in the introduction ""Many questions concerning the nature and causes of climate variability on the multidecadal time scale are still unresolved."". This book also references a Technical Summary of the IPCC's Fourth Assessment Report which acknowledges ""Difficulties remain in attributing temperature changes at smaller than continental scales and over time scales less than 50 years."" (Solomon et al., 2007). While generalist websites for the public (such as the ones referenced by pro) may ignore the issue of attribution, clearly scholars and climate scientists cannot and do not. The book I referenced demonstrates that scientists are working very hard on the attribution issue, and may resolve it in the near future thanks to ever improving technology, statistics and modeling. However, being that the world's top scientists have not resolved the issue of climate change attribution, it is far too premature for ""pro"" declare a victory or a conclusion that humanity is the ""main"" cause of climate change (based on the information contained in generalist websites), especially in the context of a Multidecadal view. I was very much hoping that Pro would address the issue of 'Attribution of Recent Climate Change' which I introduced in Round 4. In conclusion, I would like to thank my opponent for a robust and civil debate on this important issue."	CON	44
44	S422c0992-Afab96aba	Climate Change is driven by human CO2 emissions	"Dear audience, please excuse my opponent for his outrageous conduct. During this round, if anyone has been manipulated by the fiendish approach my opponent has set, I will set them straight in this round. REBUTTALS ""My opponent claims any correlation is harmful, but this actually still concedes the point. If CO2 was the main driver of climate, which is what we are debating, then it stands to reason a correlation between CO2 and temperature would be strong. If it was a large factor, it should have a correlation of some significance, though as shown its correlation was under the .5 marks and is therefore NOT significantly correlated enough to be considered a large factor in climate change."" This, Mr. Adams, is why I am concerned on your motives of conduct, if you are willing to stoop to such a low in this debate. I will quote what YOU said in the opening round, in which I agreed to and accepted. ""PRO (my opponent) argues these CO2 emissions cause global warming (which we assume exists). CON argues that global warming is primarily controlled by human emissions. "" You have lost this debate, because you have admitted to C02 emissions factoring into global warming! You made a very poor mistake in doing this Mr. Adams. Next time, I advise you to pay closer attention to such things. ALL I have to do in this debate is to PROVE TO YOU THAT C02 EMISSIONS EFFECT CLIMATE CHANGE! I have done this plenty of times, and can continue doing so as much as I please, because this is SCIENTIFICALLY PROVEN! ""And good, my opponent found the study! And its exactly what I cited! One must note, however, the correlation looks strong in the graph but when one looks at the facts we see this is false. We see multiple breaks in the correlation where the trend slows when CO2 rates climb and the opposite occurring on many points in the graph."" I must say, I laugh out loud when I read this. You must not have read your source very well, because it actually incriminates your point. And when you are called out on it, you say that it is FALSE! There, dear audience, you have heard it straight from my opponents own mouth. He is saying that the sources he has used in this debate are completely and utterly FALSE! Thus we cannot credit anything he has said in this ENTIRE debate, as apparently his sources all show mis-conducted information. This, however I already knew, and hopefully the audience did as well, given the vast amount of research and evidence I have shown you all strictly contradicting his evidence. ""The graph also is faulty as it ignores the correlation in the last decade by using faulty data."" Let's keep in mind, that this is the graph from my OPPONENTS own source. That aside, this was cited within the source from the government site, that I listed above. My opponent is trying to dis-credit the carbon dioxide information analysis center of the information on c02 effecting the climate change. His basis for this is extremely unwarranted, and he provides absolutely no bearing of proof to back this claim up! He is basically filling his entire round with Fluff and nonsense, and I hope the audience understands this when reading the debate. ""Based on greenhouse theory the correlation should be higher, and as temperatures have no risen in the last decade shatter the correlation. Why? Simple. If CO2 was the driver of climate temperatures should have continued to rise, but they didnt."" Except for it did! Your sources were wrong, you know they were wrong, and admit to them being wrong! So that must mean the information I provided proving that C02 emissions effecting global warming strongly in the past 10 years must be accurate. See all the graphs above. ""And your graph fails to refute the point that CO2 does not have a significant enough correlation too temperatures."" Lol which one, pray, may I ask? Because I have shown 3-4 different graphs, statistics, and other outstanding information that proves that C02 DOES effect the climate. In fact you have too. Until you can dis-prove MY evidence with statistics, or graphs, mine holds the most priority at the moment. Next my opponent does some weird sketches on my graph. Again this is another attempt to manipulate the audience. He is saying that the graph DOESN'T show that C02 emissions effect the climate. If you look at the graph, you will see that as the C02 Emissions rise, so does the temperature. Especially within the last 20 years, that graph shows imminent temperature reports rising subsequently with the C02 emissions. ""Every place I put a line is where correlation broke."" Again, you are mis-understanding my goal in this debate. My goal is to prove that with the rise of C02 emissions, comes the rise of temperatures. Never once in the opening round did you say that I must prove that ONLY C02 emissions were a factor in global climate change. However, I HAVE proven that climate change does occur AS A RESULT of C02 emissions. That's it! That's all I needed to win this debate, as is CLEARLY defined by my opponent in R1! His continued pursuance of the opinion that C02 emissions do not effect the climate change very much, are blatantly going against his win condition for this debate. ""My source contradicts me? You get your data from a government source, mine from the SEPP. And when you look at it, it does not contradict anything. It shows the correlation for CO2 is not adequate to prove the side you are arguing, and the data you presented does not prove a point."" Yes your source MAJORLY contradicts you and your goal in this debate. And your wrong, as it actually shows a major correlation between temperature rises and C02. "" I have shown the PDO correlation is twice as strong as a CO2 correlation. I also showed a sun correlation is 10 points stronger. I then showed that it is possible our current position in the galaxy and that relative to the sun via cosmic rays is a good theory, which trumps the evidence CO2 alarmists, have put forth. "" Listen. I DO NOT CARE. I never once said in this ENTIRE debate, nor did I have to, that C02 emissions were the only cause of global warming. I have proven that C02 emissions DO harm the environment. That much you CANNOT dis-agree with. Your conduct in this debate is superfluously appalling. Again, however, I would probably attribute that to your age. "" My opponent as pro has the BOP; this was established in round one. It was also established that round was for acceptance and if you posted your case would be irrelevant. You posted. Its irrelevant. Therefore you have the BOP and have no case to prove the statement, therefore lose the debate."" Is that all you care about, is winning a debate based on a technicality? Despite the fact that I have PROVEN that C02 emissions are a huge factor in global temperature rising? Dear audience, my opponent attempts to ignore logic and valid information and is hoping to steal a win on the debate because of it, though he excused this in the beginning of his last round. The evidence is still there, it's still valid, and I do not care if you choose to ignore it. I will leave that up to the audience to decide. CONCLUSION My opponent has shown extremely poor conduct throughout this entire debate, and I hope the audience sees this as clearly as I have. My opponent attempts to ignore the light of all the evidence I have provided. He completely contradicts his own sources, which actually just help me out. I recommend the audience go through and read his source and find all the contradicting evidence he has to offer. My opponent says I have not upheld the burden of proof. If anyone buys this I strongly suggest they re-read that in which I have offered. I remain, that the evidence in R1 is still valid, and in R2, and none of it should be discounted on a technicality. I really hope for my opponents mental health, that he educates himself further on such subjects before starting debates on them. With that said, I strongly urge the voters to vote PRO. Thankyou."	PRO	45
45	Saa3d5131-Af88ea8bc	Mankind Is Not the Main Cause of Global Warming	"I would like to thank TylerGraham95 for this truly excellent debate. I've learned a lot from your arguments and my own research. In this round, I will consider the objections my opponent has to my arguments. The Sun My opponent is making two mistakes. One in thermodynamics, and the other in how solar activity is measured. Solar activity is the highest is about 8000 years. Here is a graph showing sunspot number over the past 10000 years: [1] While solar activity has decreased, it is still at a very high level compared to recent times in the Earth's history. This means that the temperature will still increase because solar activity is still historically high. Even on the scale of the 20th century, solar activity is high.Clearly the suns activity and output experienced an upwards step-change around 1950. The average monthly sunspots in the second half of the century were, for example, 50% higher than in the first half of the century. Overall, because solar activity is still high in comparison, temperatures continue to increase.[2] As for the error in how solar activity is measured, Since the late 1970s, the amount of solar radiation the sun emits, during times of quiet sunspot activity, has increased by nearly .05 percent per decade... This trend is important because, if sustained over many decades, it could cause significant climate change... TSI [Total Solar Irradiance] interaction with the Earth's atmosphere, oceans and landmasses is the biggest factor determining our climate. So there's still more solar radiation reaching Earth than earlier.[3] See this graph: It shows a peak right at the time that temperature was increasing quickly, and decreases right before the temperature decrease (see below). Finally, consider the global temperature stagnation over the last 15 years. If the satellite based temperature is considered (which starts in the 1970s) there is an unmistakable pause in global warming starting around 2000: [4] Overall, thermodynamics, how solar activity should really be measured, and the pause in global warming all show how the sun is still the dominant factor determining the climate. The Hockey Stick The hockey stick is wildly inaccurate: The dataset used to make this construction contained collation errors, unjustified truncation or extrapolation of source data, obsolete data, incorrect principal component calculations, geographical mislocations and other serious defects. These errors and defects substantially affect the temperature index. The major finding is that the values in the early 15th century exceed any values in the 20th century. The particular hockey stick shape derived in the MBH98 proxy construction a temperature index that decreases slightly between the early 15th century and early 20th century and then increases dramatically up to 1980 is primarily an artefact of poor data handling, obsolete data and incorrect calculation of principal components.[5][6] Temperatures have been warmer than today as recently as 1300 ACE.""During the Medieval Warming... . Temperatures may have been as much as 2.5 degrees C warmer [than today] due to a southward shift of the climate belts.""[7] This graph shows the hockey stick graph and the corrected version of it: Cosmic Rays My opponent's whole argument against cosmic rays is one whole quote that provides no evidence for its conclusion. I have made a sufficient case for how cosmic rays amplify the sun's effects on the climate, and my opponent has not touched it. As for the Forbes source (I contend that Popsci isn't bad, but I'll leave that alone to save space), thank you for pointing that out. That was part of a two-year old argument that I need to get rid of. Here is a better source: Ironically, solar explosions, which produce their own deadly radiation, sweep away the even deadlier cosmic rays. As flares subside, cosmic rays intensify. Further, this Nature study shows how cosmic rays cause cloud formation (source 9). I feel like I've supported my cloud argument enough, and with good sources to preclude me from having to post more on that matter.[8][9] To conclude, here's a graph: [5] The bottom graph corrects for a few variables, so it shows a better correlation. Extraterrestrial Warming I've addressed the argument about solar irradiance, and the source I posted showed how all the planets were warming. Unfortunately, there's not enough evidence on this, but there's sufficient evidence that Mars, the Moon, Jupiter, Pluto, and Neptune are warming, and indirect evidence that the other planets are warming. This shows the comparison between the Sun's, the Earth's, and Neptune's activity: [5] Noitce how they all follow the same pattern, which shows they're connected. I need to develop my argument more in other places, so considering my opponent doesn't consider this argument much either, I'll leave it at this. Source 10 (one of the blogs my opponent says is invalid) contains peer-reviewed articles of that evidence, however.[10][11] The Sun, Cosmic Rays, and the Evidence for Natural Warming ""In particular, a quasi-60-year large cycle is quite evident since 1650 in all climate and astronomical records herein studied ... The existence of a natural 60-year cyclical modulation of the global surface temperature induced by astronomical mechanisms, by alone, would imply that at least 60 to 70% of the warming observed since 1970 has been naturally induced.""[12][13] ""For example, the authors of a paper by NASA's JPL remark '...has compared the minimum aa [index of geomagnetic activity] values with the Earth's surface temperature record and found a correlation of 0.95 between the two data sets starting in 1885. The solar irradiance [solar activity] proxy developed from the aa minima continues to track the Earth's surface temperature until the present.'""[14][15] As for Scafetta and West, the paper my opponent cites acknowledges that there might be a non-CO2 reason why this is true. See the whole paragraph after my opponent's quote in my source 16 (his source 3 from round 3). Further, they argue in a different article that ...the current anthropogenic contribution to global warming is significantly overestimated. We estimate that the Sun could account for as much as 69% [from a different starting year] the increase in Earth's average temperature, depending on the TSI reconstruction used. Overall, my opponent's argument against this study does not hold water.[16][17] A solar explanation for the recent global warming is the only one that agrees with its predictions and the observations made. The actual scientific data does not agree with him. Attack on Opponent's Sources My source 3 also says this: [Fred] Singer counters the standard scientific stance that changes in solar activity are not significant enough to have an effect, stating that solar variability is much greater in ultraviolet regions, thus having a significant effect on ozone levels and consequently a major impact on atmospheric circulation. It takes an objective standpoint (it doesn't take sides), and I was only citing it to show the solar cycle length/temperature correlation. Singer has a PhD in physics (he's reliable). I've already conceded my sources 5 and 6 and have exchanged them for better ones. Again, thank you for calling me out on it. Watts Up With That is a bit complicated. For one, while it's run by Anthony Watts, most of the articles are by guest authors, often with degrees explaining their papers, or use reputable sources if written by Watts. You can take a look at each individual article for yourself and see that they have substantiation. Further, Patrick J. Michaels, climatologist and contributor to the IPCC first assessment report, described WUWT as part of a new ""parallel universe"" of emerging online publications, manned by serious scientists critical of world governments approach to climate change: 'A parallel universe is assembling itself parallel to the IPCC. This universe has become very technical  very proficient at taking apart the U.N.'s findings.' Michaels has a PhD in environmental climatology.[18][19] The book Unstoppable Global Warming: Every 1,500 Years is very reliable. It contains 499 studies for substantiation, including a large number substantiating the quotes I made. While past climactic conditions don't negate AGW, if there were periods in recent history that were much hotter and warmed much quicker than the recent global warming, that throws suspicion and the supposed remark-ability of the recent global warming. It also provides evidence for a solar explanation and against an anthropogenic explanation. Sources 9 and 11 do provide reliable sources, and source 9 itself looks pretty good. I'll concede source 12, but I feel the quote I quoted from it makes general sense. Source 20 provides a better source for that quote (regarding the distribution of solar radiation).[20] Finally, now my own attack on one of my opponent's sources  Skeptical Science. Just to take one example, The fact that there has been no statistically-significant global warming for 16 years is described as a myth. Yet the least-squares linear-regression trend on the Hadley Centre/CRU dataset favoured by the IPCC indeed shows no statistically-significant warming for 16 years. I've shown this above. There's a list of 11 more points in source 21.[21] Also from that source, Yet half of the 129 signatories are Professors; two-thirds are PhDs, and several are Expert Reviewers for the IPCCs forthcoming Fifth Assessment Report. Another confirmation on WUWT.[21] Conclusion I have shown how a solar cause to the recent global warming is the only reasonable explanation, much better than a human-caused greenhouse gas cause. The latter theory simply has too many problems with it to hold any water, while the former's case is practically airtight, save an exact description of how the sun affects the climate. It is known that it does, however, even recently. Overall, mankind is not the main cause of global warming. Sources Sources in comments."	PRO	46
46	Sc09112b2-Af68f60c6	Humanity is the main cause of global warming.	"I never said that Mankind is the sole cause of global warming. I'm saying they are the main cause of global warming. According to the chart provided by Con in the previous argument, we are supposed going through a clod period. Then how come that 14 of the 15 hottest years are in the 21st century? This is shown in Wiki page of Global Warming. Therefore I respectfully say that the site might be wrong. Its true , there have been cold periods every year. But I think those are called winters. Another reason. Global Warming is primarily caused by emission of GHGs, or Greenhouse gases. The primary sources of GHGs are factories and automobiles . Which are human sources. The only major contributor from the natural side are trees which only emit CO2 during the night. Whereas human sources include, CO, CO2, nitrous oxide, methane and other synthetic chemicals emitted is vapour form by humans. And with the tree population declining, and not many volcanoes in the past 10 years, the GHG emission by nature are not that significant as mankind. http://environment.nationalgeographic.com... And contrary to common perception there has not been any cool period, the average surface temperature of the planet has been constantly increasing. The concentration of CO2 has been up about 20% from 650,000 years ago. Con has failed to rebut the argument of radioactive forcing which was in one of my sources. Just because its contribution cannot be quantified, doesn't mean it is not the major contributor. http://www3.epa.gov... In the above site, research has indicated that natural causes do not explain the recent climate changes . ( Ever since the Industrial Revolution). The site also gives the natural causes of climate change. 1)Variations in the sun's energy reaching Earth 2)Changes in the reflectivity of Earth""s atmosphere and surface 3)Changes in the greenhouse effect, which affects the amount of heat retained by Earth""s atmosphere 1)Its true that there have been changes in the Sun's energy reaching the Earth but none big enough to cause such a change in surface temperature ALONE. 2) The constant GHG emissions have damaged our ozone layer and are causing UV rays to enter the atmosphere which is also increase the temperature of the planet. Again . A human source. 3) The changes in the GreenHouse effect, is that we humans have been constantly increasing the amount of GHGs in the atmosphere in our quest for development and comfort. A human source. 4) There have been no volcanic eruptions, atleast not big enough for the atmosphere to change and for the aerosol count to become so high. Therefore one can conclude that a human source is now behind almost every natural cause that MAY have caused this spike in temperature. Therefore Humanity is the Main Cause of Global Warming."	PRO	47
47	Sde92ac8b-Ad743315d	Anthropogenic Climate Change Exists	There has been no global warming for 17 years, despite a 54% increase in CO2 Pro now argues there is something wrong with NASA's Remote Sensing Satellite (RSS) data [6] because it does not measure temperature with a thermometer. No scientist, to my knowledge, has ever questioned the ability of RSS to measure temperature. Satellite measurements are far superior to the spotty coverage of weather stations subject to urban heat island effects. Satellites provide global coverage at much higher densities than attainable with in situ observations. In situ observations also suffer from non-uniform temporal coverage and undocumented changes in the instrumentation used that can lead to local biases and increased uncertainty.  Satellites can measure the temperature of the atmosphere by evaluating thermal emission from gases in the atmosphere. ... By choosing the different measurement frequencies, and thus different values of absorptivity, the emission from different layers of the atmosphere can be measured. RSS studies the measurements made by 3 series of satellite-borne microwave sounders in order to construct long-term, climate-quality atmospheric temperature datasets for use by the scientific community. [24. http://www.remss.com...] If temperature continued to climb in the past 17 years, we would expect advocates of the theory of CO2 dominated climate to trumpet the success of climate models. But those advocates recognize the fact that the models have failed, the Voosen article I cited makes it clear that CO2 advocates are struggling for an explanation of why the models have failed. I explained in detail why there is no inconsistency with having no temperature increase in 17 years and having the 2001-2010 decade averaging warmer than the 90s. Pro ignored my explanation and claimed that there is a conflict. Pro said I claimed that the temperature anomaly was reset for each decade. That's nonsense, I made no such claim, and if it were reset every decade then the temperature anomalies would be a string of zeros. The anomaly is an arbitrary offset to prevent graphs from having to be scaled with the average global temperature of around 59 degrees F or 287 degrees Kelvin. Pro's graph shows global warming to have stopped since 2000. In additional to providing the actual data and the opinions of scientists who advocate CO2-dominated climate, I provided the work of Von Storch and separately of Mauritsen who showed that CO2 models could not explain the pause. [7] Pro claims I misrepresented Von Storch because in 2006 Von Storch said he believed CO2 dominates climate, but in 2012 Von Storch admitted the CO2 models failed. I quoted Von Storch as saying we find that the continued stagnation in global warming, from 1998 to 2012, is inconsistent with model predictions, even at the 2% confidence level. [17] That's not a misrepresentation. Scientists become convinced by unrelenting contrary data. The same is true of other CO2 advocates, quoted by Voosen [20], who finally have given up trying to defend the models. I cited Tinsdale's book [7] for it's extensive comparisons showing the CO2 models fail. Pro argues that I needed to have shown and argued every piece of evidence in the book. No, all I needed to do was to make a claim and cite the evidence. To refute Tinsdale, Pro might have cited some contrary compendium showing all the models were on target, but there is no such evidence to be cited. Some of the CO2 advocates claim the lack of global warming is due to something other than cosmic ray clouds seeding. Hansen supposes it might be reflective soot from coal burning in China. For the present debate, it suffices to say that CO2 is not dominating climate, and so until the science is resolved future predictions cannot be made reliability under the assumption that CO2 dominates. Cosmic ray effects, or something else associated with sunspots, are clearly the most likely factor because the sunspot trend since the early 1800s has been generally in favor of warming, but sunspots activity also tracks the Medieval Warm Period, the Little Ice Age, the global warming pause from the 40s through the 70s, the 70s sharp cooling, and the current 17 year lack of global warming. All this was shown clearly in the data presented in the debate. Current models do not include all the natural forcings Pro's graphs of temperature with and without CO2 are purely math model predictions. He says that they include sunspot and ocean oscillation effects, but they unquestionably do not. That's apparent because the real temperatures post 2000 did not rise as the graphs show, and also because the projections go out into the future. Voosen [20] specifically referenced these elements missing from the models. The natural forcings in the model projections are defective because they do not include the cosmic ray and magnetic effects of sunspots, rather only the inconsequential changes in irradiance. Pro began by arguing that that we should not look at temperatures before 1900, because that's when anthropogenic global warming began. However, the physics of climate do not change, and temperature reconstructions on scales of millions of years, hundreds of thousands of years, and the past 2000 years show that CO2 has never dominated climate, no matter what the source of CO2. CO2 levels have been many times current levels. In the past, CO2 increase was a product of warming, not a cause. CO2 may increase warming slightly, but it's never prevented natural forcings from driving temperatures down. To show that CO2 now dominates climate, advocates must show that no other natural factors are significant, but current lack of warming shows that the models are dead wrong. In this round Pro introduced the argument that CO2-induced warming began in the 1800s. But then what caused the preceding Medieval Warm Period and Little Age? It's far more likely that whatever caused those major climate changes ended, producing the subsequent warming. Those major climate events were tightly correlated with sunspot activity. To argue it was CO2, a switch must have been flipped around 1825 causing sunspots to no longer have an effect and CO2 to start dominating. Polar sea ice has increased to a current high, contrary to CO2 theory Pro began by claiming that the decrease in Arctic Ice proved that CO2 causes global warming. That claim evaporated in the light of evidence that Arctic ice has been disappearing and reappearing for centuries with the cycle of the Pacific Decadal Oscillation, which is not in the CO2 climate models. Also, CO2 warming does not explain why Antarctic ice has increased so much so that total ice has had a net increase. Pro shifted to arguing that total accumulated ice on earth has been decreasing since the end of the Little Age, but that is better explained by sunspot activity than CO2. No one claims the Little Age was due to a sudden CO2 shortage. Future CO2 levels are unpredictable. Pro offered only unsupported assertions to counter cited expert opinion that we are rapidly running out of fossil fuels, and technology will provide substitutes. The sun, not CO2, dominates climate We are seeing the real world destroy the theory of CO2 dominating climate. The CO2 math models cannot be tuned to explain how a 54% increase in CO2 has failed to produce and increase in global temperatures. For a while, the notion was that the failure was some transient glitch that would quickly disappear. After 17 years, it's clear that there is a fundamental lack of understanding reflected in climate models. CO2 theorists have been fervent in clinging to their theory, but they are nonetheless still scientists and ultimately obliged to yield their theory to the contrary data. I'm sure that science will ultimately succeed in getting climate models that match reality, and that the models will include some effect of CO2. But it should not be a surprise that the sun dominates climate, even though we are still figuring out exactly how.	CON	48
48	S39f3ff96-A614e8b4c	Global warming is likely (and mostly) anthropogenic	As per the rules, I will wait until my next round to refute Pros arguments. Some of my arguments may overlap, but they were written before Pro posted his arguments. 1.) Correlation =/= Causation Proponents of anthropogenic global warming often point to the correlation between CO2 and the rise in global temperatures. According to the Center for the Study of Carbon Dioxide and Global Change, in order to prove a causational relationship, one must prove that the supposed cause preceded the effect. The pseudoscientists who propose CO2 as a cause for global warming fail to address what came first; the rise in CO2 or the rise in temperatures. The Center for the Study of Carbon Dioxide and Global Change has suggested that the rise in temperature precedes the rise in CO2, and therefore the temperature is the cause of the rise in CO2. http://www.co2science.org... 2.) Ocean Temperatures and CO2 Studies have shown that a rise in ocean temperatures lead to a rise in CO2 in the atmosphere. Warmer waters release CO2 while colder waters absorb CO2. As global temperature rises, water temperatures increase, thereby releasing CO2 into the Earths atmosphere. According to a study conducted by Lon Hocker; the atmosphere contains 720 billion tons of CO2, while the Earths Oceans contain 36 trillion tons. The study found that the oceans are responsible for 0.275 ppm of CO2 for every temperature increase of 1C. Hocker concludes that the oceanic release of CO2 is responsible for the observed 0.22 ppm increase in CO2 per 1C temperature increase. http://wattsupwiththat.com... Another recent study conducted by Dr. Jeffrey A. Glassman examined the CO2 -temperature relationship of the last 420 millennia. The study concluded atmospheric CO2 concentrations are an effect of changes in the earths temperature, not the cause. The study found that the atmospheric CO2 trends were caused by changes in ocean temperatures, and that, while a greenhouse gas, CO2 has neither caused nor amplified global temperature increases. http://www.rocketscientistsjournal.com... 3.) Historical trends Climate has been occurring all throughout Earths history; it has been occurring long before the evolution of man, and it will continue long after we are gone. The assumption that man is the reason for climate change is more of a religion than science; only instead of god punishing us, it is assumed that the earth is punishing us. Because weather satellites only existed since the 1960s and weather balloons only existed since the 1890s, mapping historical data depends heavily on ice cores, and tree rings. Atmospheric temperature research began near the end of the little ice age; it is assumed that temperatures would increase after a mini ice age. According to ice core research, most of the last 10,000 years were warmer than it is today. The current temperature is considered very low by comparison. Most advocates of manmade global warming only look at the data dating back to the little ice age. This is because the global temperature has increased since the little ice age. If you want to see cooling or warming, it depends on where you start your timeline. http://www.skepticalscience.com... A study of Tree rings was conducted by the Department of Quaternary Paleogeography and Paleoecology at the University of Silesia and the Institute of Geography and Regional Development at the University of Wroclaw. The study mapped over 7,500 years of finish tree ring data, which coincides with the ice core samples. Using the tree ring data, they were able to forecast future trends. They predicted that within the next 40 years there will be a cooling trend, followed by another warming period. Just because the climate is changing, does not make it our fault. The climate has been changing since the earths conception. 4.) The real cause of global warming The real cause of global warming is not man, but rather the sun. Increases and decrease in the frequency of sun spots have an impact on global temperatures and of course the climate. The frequency of volcanic activity also has an impact on the climate. Volcanoes shoot ash and CO2 into the air, blotting out the sun, thereby creating a cooling effect. http://blogs.telegraph.co.uk... http://www.youtube.com... http://www.youtube.com... Conclusion Global Warming is not man-made, it is a natural phenomenon. Climate change has been occurring throughout earths history.	CON	49
49	S8006a72b-A205f7dd	Global Warming is Man-Made	AGW exists, it but doesn't dominate climate Greenhouse gases cause warming, and I never claimed otherwise. Pro cited a skeptical climate scientist acknowledgment that AGW plays some role in climate. Our resolution is Global warming is man made. That might mean that global warming is entirely man made, in which case Pro has conceded it is not, because he has acknowledged that there are also natural causes. I didn't take that meaning. I said repeatedly that Pro must prove that climate is dominated by AGW. I must prove it does not. The proof of AGW would be a AGW math mathematical model of climate that accurately explains and predicts. Weather effects are yearly variations; climate comprises trends over several years. The AGW models fail because the models do not predict or explain climate the large trends in climate. For example, Pro acknowledges that Medieval Warm Period was due to solar activity, but the official IPCC models have no mechanism that explains the MWP. Because AGW models cannot explain the MWP, climate crisis advocates have fought consistently to make the MWP disappear as a global climate phenomena. The Hockey Stick got rid of it by a statistical error, but the data ultimately won. A change in climate acknowledged to be very close to modern warming is unexplained by the models we are supposed to accept as reliable. The pause in global warming is real Pro argued that an 17 year pause in global warming might just be noise, and he cited a scientific paper that allegedly shows that. That's bad science. Suppose an engineer designed a building taking into account all the other factors he knew to affect design, and the building subsequently collapsed. Consider: The design models were correct. The building collapsed due to unknown factors categorized as noise. There is no need for further explanation. Nonsense. Fundamental failures are not noise. An eighteen year failure of climate prediction shows that the model is defective. Since AGW is in the model, and something else canceled it, the unknown factor dominated climate over the period. I quoted both HADCru and NASA scientists as acknowledging the pause in global warming. The paper by AGW-advocate von Storch established that the current models cannot be tweaked to explain the pause. Pro found some oddball paper that made a model that shows a pause, but models can be made to do anything desired. AGW theory is not validated until after it makes accurate predictions. Making a new, unproved model means we are back to the starting point. Pro said that HADCru land data showed an increase. Year-to-year variations occur with weather, and so there is so uncertainty in the trends due to the accuracy of fitting a line through the weather-induced variations. The HADCru data shows 0.09 +/- 0.11 degree of global warming over the period of the pause, compared to the 0.4 to 1 degree predicted by the AGW models. None of the six global temperature data sets showed a statistically significant increase. [http://wattsupwiththat.com...] The land data sets are the least accurate because increasing urbanization drives up the temperatures near many of the weather station locations, due to the so-called heat island effect. The satellite data is the most accurate because it samples the earth uniformly, and it shows no increase. HADCru scientists understand the large departure from the models, and acknowledge the pause. Pro said I acknowledged that the Sun could not be causing the pause in global warming. That's not true, but if it were true, it would not help Pro's case. If it's not the sun, then a completely unsuspected factor dominated climate and overwhelmed AGW. However, what I acknowledged was that the length of the previous solar cycle was not a good predictor. I presented the historical graph that showed the level of sunspot activity correlated well with the warmth of the MWP, the cold of the Little Ice Age, and the warming of the 20th century. Pro acknowledged the solar cause of those changes. Sunspots do not correlate to the heat output of the sun, so the effect on climate must be a different physical cause: magnetic field, cosmic rays, ultraviolet spectrum, or something else. It might be some complex combination of the effects. The graphs show that cold climate is associated with low sunspot activity and warm climate with high sunspot activity. The 20th century covered a long period of high sunspot activity, which explains the warming. Recently, sunspot activity has dropped, correlated to the pause. The number of sunspots remains a reliable longer term climate predictor. AGW predicts straight line temperature increase I presented a graph showing actual global temperatures and AGW predicting a strong straight line increase. My graph is accurate, but I should have better explained the AGW line in comparison to the actual climate data. Here is the graph, repeated from the earlier round: Temperature responds to the logarithm of greenhouse gas density, and greenhouse gas density has been increasing exponentially. The log of an exponential is a straight line. As far as I know, all climate scientists agree on this. Therefore, AGW should produce a straight line. Pro said that the models also include some natural effects like volcanoes, so the model predictions need not be a straight line increase. However, the debate resolution is that AGW dominates climate. While natural causes upset the perfect straight line behavior to some degree, they cannot dominate. While there may be some blips, like the blip of cold for a couple years from the eruption of Mt. Pinatubo, there should be no problem recognizing a straight line. The temperature data is not close to any straight line, so AGW is not dominating. We are far below what the models predict for the present year. The slope of the line of temperature increase over time depends both on climate sensitivity and the rate of carbon dioxide increase. The behavior of temperature with CO2 is logarithmic, so Pro's computation of what it should be is way off. Initially a small increase in CO2 produces a large increase in temperature, with later increases in CO2 having less and less effect. Suppose CO2 increased in units from 1 to 16, and that the increase from from 1 to 2 brought one degree of warming. That means that there would be four degrees of warming at 16, CO2 having doubled four times. Linear interpolation, which is what Pro did, between 1 and 16 says that there should be (1/15) of the 4 degrees, 0.27 degree, at 2 units. In fact, there was 1 degree of increase at the 2 unit point, four times as much as linear interpolation erroneously yields. The temperature rise is not line between 1 and 2 or between 2 and 4, or anywhere on the curve. I converted the combined effect of climate sensitivity and CO2 increase into a linear number of degrees increase per century increase. The official estimate by the US Environment Protection Agency, referencing the IPCC, is 2.2 to 6.1 degrees C by 2100. (I converted from the EPA's F) [http://www.epa.gov...] That's 2.6 to 7.1 degrees per century. The range includes both the allowed variation in the estimates of climate sensitivity and the possibility that CO2 output may drop near the end of the century, as substitutes for fossil fuels become more significant. Departure from exponential growth is in the future so I used 3 degrees per century to represent the low end of climate sensitivity estimates that AGW theory allows. It's a coincidence that matches 3 degrees for doubling CO2. The earth should have warmed by 0.4 to 1 degree since 2000, but in fact as measured by the satellites there was no change, and in all data sets show no statistically significant change. The graph shows temperature anomaly, so where the blue line ought to originate depends upon when one believes AGW began to dominate climate. AGW theory was invented to explain the temperature rise from about 1980 to 1996, so that's where I put the AGW prediction line. The Hockey stick claimed that nothing happened to climate for a thousand years before about 1970. If the claim is that AGW dominated the entire 20th century, then the line should start at 1900. If climate sensitivity is 0.7, way below any AGW official estimate, then the line is about 0.5 degree per century. and AGW no longer explains the rise in the 80s and 90s. Wrong consensus derives from common error When science reaches a wrong consensus, scientists point to the data that they used to proclaim that the wrong consensus is well founded. I gave several examples. For AGW, it was the rapid temperature increase in the 80s and 90s that proved the theory. Some AGW is in the climate, but the long pause proves it is not the dominant factor. Paleoclimate In the hundred million year history of climate, CO2 shows no relation to temperature. The laws of nature do not change. It's not enough to say that things were different back then. The changes in the orbit of the earth were too small to explain the climate variation. The likely missing link is the solar variation other than heat output that caused the MWP. CO2 released from the ocean will increase heating, and CO2 going back into solution will amplify cooling. Those are natural, not anthropogenic, factors and they do nothing to explain what drives the trend in either direction. (I wrongly identified my reference for the lag in CO2; it's 3-5.) The Debate Pro's rules for the debate say that we have an equal burden to prove that AGW does or not dominate climate. That's fine with me. If AGW was the dominant factor in climate, then we should have observed a straight line increase in temperature since 1980, and we clearly have not. Since Pro has not met his burden of showing that AGW dominates, I've met my burden to show it has not. Thanks to Pro for a fine debate. It will be most fascinating to people interested in logarithms.	CON	50
50	S422c0992-A1f03cf15	Climate Change is driven by human CO2 emissions	I dont see any voting penalties would be just, however I believe his case is irrelevant due to this. To make it relevant, though, he can re-post it next round or he can totally change his case to accommodate the debate. In any case, no voting penalties should occur. Just the usual its irrelevant, post it next round would be a more just punishment. Correlations It is important to note in statistics correlations occur, but this does not mean causation is occurring. Everyone in the climate agrees: there is a CO2 correlation involved with climate. The question is how strong it is, and if other correlations exist. Now, the correlation of CO2 and climate is not considered good. Understanding correlations for the argument is not very complicated. A 1.0 correlation (r=1) is a perfect correlation; this would make a good case for causation. A 0.9 correlation (r=0.9_ would be considered a good correlation. 0.5 (r=0.5) would be considered a fair correlation. And something above .5 means something can have a large effect or a visual one on climate, though something in the .7-1.0 range would be ideal. 0.25 (r=0.25) is a poor correlation. And 0 (or negative) is no match at all. So, what is the CO2 correlation? Not surprisingly, it is under the .5 marks. But if CO2 was the main driver of climate, it should have a fairly high correlation, shouldnt it? Its impossible for something to have a causation effect if it has no correlation. But not only must the CO2 correlation be examined, but so should other factors (PDO + AMO, and the sun). Alarmist believers (believe CO2 warming occurs) usually cite Maua Loa as a main CO2 source as it shows large increases in CO2 ppm in the atmosphere. Ice core data also shows CO2 count is rising. When examining the temperature and CO2 data, the correlation is striking. CO2 only correlates on a .44 scale (r = .44). This means the correlation rates from fair to poor, which is bad news for an alarmist. It shows the correlation is not very strong. Correlations for other factors, though, seem a lot more promising. The correlation with the solar irradiance shows a much better correlation then CO2. Its correlation to surface temperatures is relatively strong, .57 (r = 0.57). This means the correlation is rated between fair and good. The correlation between the two main ocean currents, PDO and AMO, is particularly striking. The correlation is .83, the paper argues the correlation is in the good range, showing promise for this factor in the modern warming. It also shows its R2 is stronger then the CO2 correlation by a factor of almost two. Te scientific paper then examines data within the last ten years, the results? A CO2 correlation is no match at all. The correlation is only 0.02. (r = 0.02). IF CO2 was the main driver of climate, then why isnt the correlation higher in the past century, and so low within the last decade? Supporting references: [1][2] Why its unlikely human CO2 causes global warming I am not doubting CO2 can cause warming, as it is part of the greenhouse effect, I doubt, however, whether or not human caused CO2 can have a significant effect. So here are a few facts, which are not in dispute. The percentage of the atmosphere that is CO2 is relatively small, it is a trace gas, and it is under one percent. The atmospheric CO2 is about 388 ppm, now slightly higher. Now, the amount of that CO2 that is human causes it also very small, it is under 5%. The number of 5% is always changing it is usually less. So, lets do the math. CO2 is 0.4% of the atmosphere; lets say humans create 4% of that (a valid estimate) that means 0.0016% of the atmosphere is human created CO2. To simplify the numbers, thats 1.6 parts per 100,000. Imagine a building with 100,000 people in it emitting heat making it really hot in there, and people claim those 1.6 people are causing the temperature hike. They kick them out of the building. What effect would it have? It would be immeasurable [3]. Does it sound logical 1.6 parts per 100,000 would cause global warming? Other factors There are many other factors, two already discussed is Solar and the PDO/AMO ocean currents, and these are the most discussed. Others discussed are notably cosmic rays. Research on cosmic rays makes the most interesting point, though: our galaxy. Yes, our galaxy might be why the thermometer is rising, that is why the IPCC is screaming. Though they ignore this theory anyway, our position in the galaxy might be the reason we are warming up. Our earth is on the edge of our galaxy  its a suburb  and every 225 million years it circles around and makes one cosmic year. Our galaxy has many stars that come out of the sides like scythes. Its like a ninja throwing star. Every 135 years we enter a more populated part of the galaxy; it then receives unusually large amounts of cosmic rays bombarding us. Less cosmic rays, more heating less cooling. Likewise, more rays more cooling (they cause clouds). We are currently in an area with fewer rays, meaning we are obviously going to face large amounts of warming [3]. Another convincing theory is the 1,500-year solar cycle mainly pushed by S. Fred Singer. Though other studies prove the effect. One study argued the 1,500-year cycle (+/- 500 years) did indeed exist, and it was very possible that this could be the cause of recent rapid climate change, and the IPCC overlooking the theory is nave. In other words, significant evidence proves the point and it is a convincing theory for natural caused global warming [4]. And as I am on room constraint I will have one more factor I look at: PDO + AMO possibilities. As proven earlier, there is already a strong case for this as it has a 0.83 R correlation. The paper earlier argued there was a strong correlation between ocean currents and global temperatures, and that it should be a candidate for the cause of climate change. Anthony Watts provides a few graphs for us, also: [Without regressions] [with regressions] http://wattsupwiththat.com... Conclusion: Natural factors, not human CO2, causes [current] warming. And it is highly unlikely the minute amount of human emisions is causing the warming we currently face. Sources: [1] http://wattsupwiththat.com... [2] Joseph Daleo, US Temperatures and Climate factors since 1895Science and public policy institute, (2010) [3] MacRae, Paul.  False Alarm: Global Warming-- Facts versus Fears. Victoria, B.C.: Spring Bay, 2010. [4] Charles D. Keeling and Timothy P. Whorf The 1,800-year oceanic tidal cycle: A possible cause of rapid climate change National Academy of Sciences, Volume 97, Number 8, pp. 3814-3819, (April 2000)	CON	51
51	Sa80b0a3-A536c303e	Resolved: Human Activity Is a Significant Factor in Global Warming on Planet Earth.	I will enumerate more of my opponents graphs. Figure 12: Global Glacier Cumulative Volume Changes Figure 13: Proportions of growing and shrinking glaciers in 2009 Figure 14: Sea Levels since 1870 Figure 15: US Stations reporting continuously from 1900 to 2000 Figure 16: Feedbacks vs Forcings Graph Part 6: Contradictory Glacial, Sea Level, and Temperature Data Figure 12 is interesting not because it counters any of my argument, but because it puts my opponents temperature, and sea level data in contradiction with it. If you look at 1970 in Figure 12 You'll notice the volume of glacial ice is higher than any point from 1870 to 1970. How did we get more Ice in 1970? If we accept that the melt of glaciers is caused solely by heat, and if we accept ether Figure 2, or the corrected Figure 6 then we have a problem. The dates leading up to 1970 don't show any noticeable decline in temperature that would explain it, and the Figure 14 sea levels don't show any stabilizing or drop in sea level to address where this extra water for the ice even came from. We're locked into another contradiction similar to the one that I started with. Ether the Glacial data is correct, and temperature, and sea level is incorrect. The Inverse of that, or both are wrong. There are a couple of issues with Figure 12 that will need to be disclosed and accounted for before we can con to a decision about which data is correct. According to my opponent's source the number of glaciers represented from 1946 on back is in the single digits. It's not until about 1960 that we have about 30 glaciers represented in the sample. If we take a look at Figure 10 we can see that this is the point where the yearly median drops below zero implying slightly colder than average temperatures. If you look at Figure 12 at 1980 you'll notice the angle of decrease shows a slowing which would imply that the temperature decreased, or had a slower accent than in prior years. In Figures 2, and 6 no such indication is given, but in Figure 10 the early 80's shows another decline in temperatures before the 90's where it finally moves above zero implying higher than normal temperatures, and thus a steeper decline in volume. In other words Figure 12 is in less contradiction with Figure 11 then it is with Figures 2, 6, and 14. However, Figure 12 also suffers from exaggeration of features due to changing sample size. This is address in my analysis in step 4, and when I brought up the causes of the differences between Figure 7 and Figure 8. Adding in a thousand weather stations radically altered the graph which is why step 4 restricted weather stations to existing at the start and end of the analysis. So where does the sampling look like for Glaciers? My opponent's source is very nice to graph it out for us to see on their intermediate discussion of glacial ice. Figure 17: Number of observed glaciers As you can see just prior to 1976 there was only about 45 glaciers in the data. Then it spontaneously has about 20, nearly half of the prior sample, added in. This continues until the early 80's where that with a sample of just over 90 has doubled the sample. Then throw out the 90's regular sampling increased, and this would further exaggerate the changes because we hasn't sampled the glaciers in that method in the past. Now I'd love to download the generate the data properly myself. My opponents source does point people towards it here: wgms.ch/data_databaseversions/ However the data isn't high quality like the GHCN dataset, and would require more time than I have in this debate to properly process. It also doesn't have what I would consider a high enough quantity of data. It barely has 30 glaciers sampled regularly, and I'd personally prefer 100 before I started making definitive claims about what the data says. Even the source claims that they have 228 glaciers in the data, and the only way for that to work with the sample graph is if glaciers skip years, and aren't fully represented every year, and across every season in a year. Part 7: Hiatus Proof? My opponent is under the mistaken belief that I've proven the hiatus to be false. Unfortunately Part 1 of my argument does everything, but that. I've proven only that two parts of the global warming argument about the hiatus are in stark contradiction with each other. That only proves one, or both are wrong. Unfortunately it doesn't prove which one is actually wrong. Parts 2, 3, and 4 are the evidence that undermines Figures 2, and 6 strongly suggesting that data in both cases is flawed. It's up you the judges to choose which you believe. However, using my opponent's reasoning that because more recent updates are and should be seen as more trustworthy is counter to logic, reason, and debate. It is an appeal to the authority of newness, and not a rational reason at all. Part 8: Correlation vs Causation My opponent seems to be under the impression that my only focuses on the temperatures, and doesn't refute humans as the cause. There is a phrase in statistics that you may have heard. Correlation does not imply causation, but that's only half the phrase. These other half is, There is no causation without correlation. Simply put if there is no correlation between global warming and human activity as Figure 10 shows then humans are certainly not the cause. However, if you believe Figure 2, or 6, and that they correlate to human CO2 activity then there is the additional burden of proving that the correlation causal, and not just correlational. It's an unfortunate asymmetry in statistical arguments. There is a possibility that even if there isn't a correlation that maybe the correlation is just smaller than can be measured with the available data, but that would yield that human activity is an insignificant factor in global warming. As for correlation issues my opponent has another problem. If we believe Figure 14 we'd expect out CO2 emissions to map over it, and show a visible correlation. Now both CO2, and Ocean levels have gone up over time, but just going up isn't enough. Sea levels have a nice smooth mathematical curve built into it. I'd have loved to have put both the CO2 and Figure 14 together, but my opponents source linking to the data to do that leads to a 404 error: http://www.pol.ac.uk... Figure 18: CO2 Emissions If you notice between 1950 and 200 there is a bulge in out CO2 emissions, and between 1980 and 2000 a different rate of increase until 2000 where it is in line with an exponential trend that started in 1870. These features would be expected in the Sea Levels data if they were strongly correlated, but it looks like by the seal levels that it's an exponential trend that never varies in the way out CO2 emissions do. My data is courtesy of Source 8. Now if my opponent can find the source for this Figure I'd be happy to merge the sea level in so we can see just how much it doesn't correlate. Most other sources only give about 10 years of data. Part 9: Solar Activity My opponent is under the impression that he can wave his hands, and assert an argument, and data is null just because it doesn't conform to his world view. He'd have to explain the lack of movement in the past data, and give an appropriate alternative for Cycle 24 correlating, but not prior. NASA's assessment in 2008 on the effect of Solar Storms due to this unprecedented phenomenon had no prior data. Outside of the last decade this was never observed before. Claiming that we should see all layers heat up as he claims to try to nullify' is nothing more than an unsupported assumption. Part 10: Dust Bowl My opponent makes the claim that I hadn't explained the downward change in the median, and then attempted to assert that it must be from a change in methodology. Though I'm not against this possibility claiming that a change in any of the graphs is due to a methodology change requires further explanation. Parts 2, 3, and 4 are extensive explanation of methodological errors. However, I did explain the change in the graph even if it was indirect. In the 1930's there was a excessive drought, and heat waves. Part of this being clearly represented in the data is due to the United States having the best most consistent weather station data for the last century, and even more so in my opponent's Figure 15 because it is only the United States of America 600 weather stations vs my sample of 1170 weather stations. Now this event very much did occur, and is verified in the EPA Heat Wave Index that shows the 30's were exceedingly bad even by today's standards, and you can read source 5 to see further analysis on this Great Depression causing event if you doubt the 30's heat waves weren't hell on Earth. Now why the 30's was Hell on Earth is anybody's guess. We know it was bad, and man made CO2 emissions were even lower so blaming them enters into contradiction with the present high emissions. Personally I'd love it if there was enough pan evaporation data to verify that there was, or was not a correlation with sunspots, but the available GHCN data is too small for that period evaporation data. Part 11: Contention 4 My opponents 4th contention appears to be missing an actual argument to go with it, or even a time period to show the change in forcing, and feedbacks over time. Perhaps he will clarify in the next round what he was going after with it. Part 12: Earth, Mars, and Venus I'm out of time, and characters so I will have to cut my response a bit, and hope to come back to this part if possible. I await my opponent. [8] http://cdiac.ornl.gov...	CON	52
52	Se62a5fda-Afe7ced36	Official May Tournament Final: Global Warming	"HOUSEKEEPING 1. In my Round 2 argument, I mistakenly wrote, ""I have now established that [human activity] is responsible for much more that 57% of global warming, somewhere around 75%."" I meant to write 65%, which is the actual number. That is an approximate estimate, and my estimate is closer to 62.5% of the warming (which means human activity has caused 85% of global warming since 1975, indicating a climate sensitivity of around 2 degrees C). 2. Con writes, ""My opponent has also dropped my opening graph in C1 r2 That also showed that CO2 levels are at an all time low! Thus once again disproving my opponent's theory."" Note that I couldn't have dropped anything, since this *is* Con's C1, R2. CON's CASE Overviews 1. Con's first contention is a defense. It doesn't give any offense, i.e. does not provide a reason for judges to vote for his side. Con argues that CO2 does not have an effect, which merely preempts an argument that asserts that CO2 does have an effect. I ask judges to take this into consideration. I will refute that argument anyway. 2. The second contention Con presents is a ""kritik"" of the topic. A ""kritik"" is defined as an argument that challenges an assumption in the resolution. The second contention says global warming doesn't even exist, therefore is not man-made. Therefore, its topicality is indirect, making it a ""kritik."" Rule 6 prohibits ""kritiks."" Please note this violation. C1. Carbon Dioxide and Temperatures Carbon dioxide does not exactly correlate with temperature. However, the radiative forcing of CO2 and the sun allows for a direct correlation. The sun drives much of modern climate change. The most recent spurt of global warming was caused by the sun, thus carbon dioxide drives climate change and is a major forcing. [1] The below graph illustrates a correlation between the forcings of the sun and CO2, and the rise in temperature. [2] The effects of carbon dioxide increase due to positive feedback amplification. Feedbacks such as volcanic activity and clouds can significantly expand the impact of carbon dioxide on temperature. [3] The below graph depicts the correlation between carbon dioxide and temperatures over the last 700,000 years. A comparison of the warming between the troposphere and the stratosphere can demonstrate this. Majority of atmospheric carbon dioxide is found in the upper troposphere, entailing that carbon dioxide would cause higher temperatures in the troposphere than in the stratosphere. [4, 5] The following graph depicts the temperature effect of CO2 in the troposphere and stratosphere. [6] Robert Berner and Zavareth Kothavala argue, "" The exact values of CO2...should not be taken literally...[O]ver the long term, there is indeed a correlation between CO2 and paleotemperature."" [7] The following graph shows the uncertainty of values of CO2. [8] Furthermore, I can turn the entire argument against Con. This is primarily because many of the greenhouse gases mentioned - with high global warming potentials - act as positive feedbacks. Water vapor, the greenhouse gas that has the highest effect on climate, as conceded by Con, also acts as the largest positive feedback. Brian J. Soden and Isaac M. Held write, ""Water vapor is found to provide the largest positive feedback in all models and its strength is consistent with that expected from constant relative humidity changes in the water vapor mixing ratio. The feedbacks from clouds and surface albedo are also found to be positive in all models, while the only stabilizing (negative) feedback comes from the temperature response."" [9] This means the effects of water vapor help my case. A positive feedback loop would also allow CO2 level increase to cause an increase in the water vapor concentration in the atmosphere. ""When CO2 is added to the atmosphere, as a greenhouse gas it has a warming effect. This causes more water to evaporate and warm the air more to a higher (more or less) stabilized level. So CO2 warming has an amplified effect, beyond a purely CO2 effect...Without any feedbacks, a doubling of CO2 would warm the globe around 1 degree C. Taken on its own, water vapour feedback roughly doubles the amount of CO2 warming. When other feedbacks are included (eg - loss of albedo due to melting ice), the total warming from a doubling of CO2 is around 3 degrees Celsius."" [10] This is affirmed by the research of Soden and Held, who find that water vapor is the primary atmospheric feedback on Earth. [11] C2. The Temperature of the Earth All my opponents studies are faulty and unreliable. These are the reasons. Firstly, my opponent's first graph shows the temperature of the Earth in relation to the temperature of the Earth millions of years ago. This can be discredited, because ""global warming"" only began in the 19th century, after the Earth was relatively normal. The definition of global warming given in the debate concerns the 19th century. Discredit the first graph. Secondly, the idea of the ""global warming hiatus,"" which my opponent brings up, is flawed. My opponent's data is largely based on TSS data. UAH and HADCRUT4 data both show that the Earth has been continuing to warm throughout the last 15 years. [12, 13] Further, the long-term trend of increasing temperatures is due to CO2. Short-term variability happens all the time; it does not mean that the long-term increase is going to stabilize forever. Oscillation phenomena, or ""La Nena"" phenomena, will result in the trend changing, but will revert to a positive trend eventually. [14] Thirdly, the heat content of Earth is actually increasing. ""This new research combines measurements of oceanheat, land and atmosphere warming and ice melting to find that our climate system continued to accumulate heatthrough to 2008...Since 1970, the Earth's heat content has been rising at a rate of 6 x 10^21 Joules per year."" [15] The below graph represents this. [16] Also, ""Foster and Rahmstorf (2011) used multiple linear regression to filter out the effects of the El Nio Southern Oscillation (ENSO), and solar and volcanic activity (Figure 2), and found that the underlying global surface and lower atmospherewarming trends have remained very steady in recent years."" [15] The below graph portrays the data. [17] Con then reiterates the argument from water vapor, which is addressed above. He then straw-mans my position, since I did not present the hockey stick graph. SOURCES 1 - http://tinyurl.com... 2 - http://tinyurl.com... 3 - http://www.jamstec.go.jp... 4 - http://www.skepticalscience.com... 5 - http://tinyurl.com... 6 - http://www.skepticalscience.com... 7 - http://tinyurl.com... 8 - http://earthguide.ucsd.edu... 9 - http://www.gfdl.noaa.gov... 10 - http://www.skepticalscience.com... 11 - http://tinyurl.com... 12 - http://nsstc.uah.edu... 13 - http://www.cru.uea.ac.uk... 14 - http://tinyurl.com... 15 - http://www.skepticalscience.com... 16 - http://www.ess.uci.edu... 17 - http://tinyurl.com... Thus, I affirm. Over to Con!"	PRO	53
53	S842a72e0-A19ec4144	Climate Shift	Resolved: Climate Shift is real; Climate shift is primarily influenced by man; Climate shift ought to be a legitimate concern of those who care about the future of humanity. I will take the pro side. The BOP lies on both sides. First round is acceptance only. Second round is construction only.	PRO	54
54	Sde92ac8b-A973f517b	Anthropogenic Climate Change Exists	Correlation plus a theory is not proof CO2 dominates climate My opponent noted temperature generally rising since 1900 and CO2 rising since 1900, and claims that because CO2 is a greenhouse gas, it must be responsible for the rise. The error in that logic is that we do not know how much of the rise is due to CO2 and how much is due to other factors affecting climate. We could plot increasing consumption of charcoal in backyard barbecues, noted that burning charcoal heats the atmosphere, and then concluded that barbecuing causes global warming. The barbecue theory is defeated by showing that there isn't enough heat generated by the volume of charcoal consumed to have a significant warming effect. Similarly, Pro offers no analysis that shows CO2 to be even a significant cause. Pro has the burden to prove not only that CO2 dominated climate in the last century, but that it will dominate the next century despite all unknown factors affecting climate. Here is a reconstruction of CO2 and climate over the past 650 million years. [1. http://www.geocraft.com...] http://www.debate.org... Over geological time, clearly climate has been dominated by factors other than CO2. On the geological time scale, we are currently in an unusual period of low temperatures and low CO2. It a very complicated picture, proving that climate is far more than just CO2. Pro shows the CO2 data for the past 650,000 years.Temperature follows the same pattern, only CO2 follows temperature. The graphs are here [2. http://www.geocraft.com...] If the graphs are time aligned, the result is not that CO2 causes warming. Quite the opposite, CO2 rises about 800 years after temperature rises. Warming causes CO2 because warmer oceans cannot dissolve as much CO2. In 2013 the prestigious journal Nature published an up to date scientific reconstruction of climate for the past 2050 years. [3. http://www.nature.com...] It shows that over the period climate varied by about as much as the present warming, with both the Roman Period and the Medieval Warm Period warmer. It remains possible that CO2 is contributing significantly to current warming, but the natural variations are so large that CO2 might be inconsequential. Current climate science has no explanation for the major climate variations of the past 2000 years. That's why the discredited global warming hockey stick attempted to prove there were no past variations. Pro has the burden to prove CO2 dominates. I say it's unlikely CO2 dominates, but no one really knows. http://www.debate.org... Total sea ice is at record levels and CO2 can't explain why Pro argues that arctic ice is melting, that proves CO2 is the cause. Historically, Arctic ice melts when Antarctic ice increases in a cycle of 40 to 60 years called the Pacific Decadal Oscillation (PDO). The PDO pattern fits the cooling period from the 40s to the 70s that CO2 cannot explain. [4. http://www.drroyspencer.com...] The Arctic was last clear around 1940. Global warming alarmist scientists warned that this time the Antarctic was melting as well, and they made the confident prediction in 2010 was that the Antarctic would be ice free by 2013. What actually happened is that the Antarctic reached record high levels of ice: The Antarctic surge is so big that overall, although Arctic ice has decreased, the frozen area around both poles is one million square kilometres more than the long-term average. [5. http://www.dailymail.co.uk...] If CO2 warming dominates climate, it cannot be that it is overwhelmed by other factors like the PDO. But it is. CO2 theory cannot explain the pause in warming To accurately predict future climate, computer models must be proved to be reliable. We know the models did not predict ice formation in the Antarctic nor pre-1900 climate variations. In addition, global warming has essentially ceased since 1997, [6. http://wattsupwiththat.com...] so a check on the accuracy of climate models is how well this pause is predicted. Sscientists predicting CO2 crisis use many variations of computer models. The collections are called CMIP3 and CMIP5, with CMIP5 the very latest. ... Climate models cannot simulate past surface temperatures, precipitation or sea ice area. Those are basic components of Earths climate.  The concern about the latest slowdown in warming was addressed by a recent scientific study by Von Storch, et al. (2013)  Can Climate Models Explain the Recent Stagnation in Global Warming?  The one-word answer to the title question of their paper is, No. They stated: However, for the 15-year trend interval corresponding to the latest observation period 1998-2012, only 2% of the 62 CMIP5 and less than 1% of the 189 CMIP3 trend computations are as low as or lower than the observed trend. Applying the standard 5% statistical critical value, we conclude that the model projections are inconsistent with the recent observed global warming over the period 1998- 2012. [7. Tisdale, Bob (2013-09-23). Climate Models Fail (Kindle Locations 276-291)] The Von Storch paper is available free in draft format [8. http://www.mpimet.mpg.de...] There are a number of ocean oscillations in addition to the PDO. These are not accurately modelled in the computer simulations and likely account for the rapid warming before the current pause. The Medieval Warm Period and the following Little Ice Age correlate extremely well with sunspot activity, but no physical cause of the warming and cooling has been definitively linked to sunspots so there is nothing in the computer models representing the effects. It is not direct change in the solar radiation, because that varies too little to explain the large effect. Danish scientist Svensmark has proposed that changes in cosmic rays linked to variations in sunspots affect cloud cover by a cloud seeding mechanism, but CO2 scientists discount that, so nothing is in the computer models. [9. http://wattsupwiththat.com...] All of the climate change in the past century could be accounted for by less than a 3% change in cloud cover, but even with satellites cloud cover measurement is difficult. The cloud height is important as well as the density. We don't know future CO2 levels Everyone, crisis advocates and skeptics alike, agrees that whatever the CO2 sensitivity it is logarithmic. So if doubling CO2 produces a one degree rise, which is about the theoretical rise if there is nothing in the climate that magnifies the effect, then doubling it again would produce another degree of warming. An exponential rise in CO2 produces a linear rise in temperature. If we had a perfect model of CO2 effects on climate, we would still need to know how much CO2 is left to be produced and at what rate. Everyone agrees oil and coal are running out, but no one is sure how fast. But as supplies get scarce, prices rise and alternatives become economically viable. A technological breakthrough like a cheap, efficient battery would drop carbon consumption dramatically. It's another major unknown. A clarification of the resolution was agreed to in the debate comments so Pro must show that CO2 dominates climate in the past and future century. Pro has not made a convincing case that CO2 accounts for past climate change, nor that either computer models or carbon consumption assumptions are reliable enough to predict the future. He has the burden of proof.	CON	55
55	Se4d5d288-A7e5bbb54	Global Warming is Largely Man-Made	"There are some minor issues in conduct with my opponent's constructive case, but I'm not going to dwell on them. Primarily, this argument remains unaltered from when my opponent last debated this issue, which means he has left in irrelevant rebuttals, albeit to the wrong opponent. R1: No Major/any CO2 Increase. In the previous round, I preemptively refuted this first claim that historically higher carbon dioxide are relevant. In fact, as you will see, they are, if anything, evidence in favour of carbon dioxide's effect on temperature, which Con later attempts to refute. ""Many skeptics claim that historically, carbon dioxide levels have been much lower, particularly around 500-600 million years ago[1]. But the carbon dioxide level is not the only factor that affect global temperature[2]. Additionally, this position fails to account for the differences in solar activity, that was drastically different from current levels. This position also fails to explain why a comprehensive analysis of carbon dioxide levels over the last 540 millions years concluded that ""Periods of low CO2 coincide with periods of geographically widespread ice."" This is clearly visible in this graph, where the shaded periods are periods of widespread ice.""[3] I shall also strengthen this argument and adapt it to Con's specific contention. Firstly Con cites data, which no longer exists. This is bad practice. He should seek alternative data that supports his contention that, even if one assumes the data is reliable, I have unequivocally refuted. [1] http://www.lavoisier.com.au... [2] http://www.ipcc.ch... [3] http://droyer.web.wesleyan.edu...(GCA).pdf R2: [sic] Earth is cooling. This is patently not true and in most instances of my opponents argument, a bare assertion. In the others, he has cherry picked unsupported evidence. Of course the Earth has been hotter historically (due to solar activity), but this is irrelevant. In this debate we are referring to Global Warming, which is the consistent rise in temperature since the 20th century up till this point, which is clearly occurring. This figure shows the change in the earth's total heat content since 1960[1]. This more advanced graph is the average of 5 different data sets, adjusted for the short-term effects of the El Nino Southern Oscillation, solar variability, and volcanic aerosols[2]. Con then proceeds to [sic]site Don Easterbrook, who claims his model predicted the temperature more accurately than the IPCC. This is an outright falsehood. In fact, Easterbrook had to distort the IPCC projection figures to make his graph compelling. Here is the actual data[3]: We see that the IPCC's projections were much more accurate. Shall we zoom in a bit more? Con then cites his first actual study, despite it being relatively insignificant, as it is a single study and has a largely negligent effect on the hockey stick graph. I'm now going to provide some consistent and substantiated data regarding the hockey stick graph. The hockey stick is describes a sharp increase in temperature visible within a reconstruction of temperatures in the last 1000 years. The original paper describing this trend appeared in 1998,but since then there has been a number of notable proxy studies that have confirmed its findings[4][5][6]. In 2007 an independent study reconstructed largely similar results, and evaluated the statistical techniques employed to create it[7]: Con's own graph was constructed from unknown data sets, presumably by NewsBusters, a questionable source (given their clear bias in documenting the issue). His next graph is also cited the same source, despite that graph not existing anywhere on the source page. I have no obligation to rebut something that has been pulled from thin air and not substantiated with fact, especially in supposedly scientific debates like this one. In his next argument, pertaining to water vapour, Con shows elementary misunderstanding of climate sensitivity and feedback. His argument can be summed up in the following format: P1: Water vapor makes up 95% of greenhouse gases and CO2 only . (Bare assertion) P2: The climate sensitivity of water vapour is around 0.25%. The climate sensitivity of CO2 is around 1%. (Disputable and unsourced, my Constructive Case hinted at a slightly higher figure between 2 and 4.5 degrees) P3: Global warming is occurring. (A sudden change of heart) C1: Water vapour is responsible for global warming, Before I begin tearing this nonsense apart I'd like to urge voters to hold Con accountable for changing advocacy half way through his case (in the same contention!). He first contends that there is no warming, and then holds that there is warming, only that water vapour is responsible. We aren't going to have quality discourse if Con does not hold a stable position. Con fails to understand that weak warming caused by more carbon dioxide will lead to more water vapor in the atmosphere, which will then amplify the weak warming through water vapors role as the atmospheres primary greenhouse gas. Water vapour is responsible for much of the greenhouse effect, but only because warmer air masses, on average, contain more water vapor. In short, water vapour acts a feedback, not a forcing[10]. Much of his further case was also preemptively rebutted in my initial constructive case: ""Despite man made carbon dioxide emissions being comparatively smaller than natural emissions, the real driving force of climate change is the net quantity of carbon dioxide released, since most natural carbon emissions are absorbed[8]. Because of this, atmospheric carbon dioxide is at the highest levels in approximately 15 to 20 million years[9]."" [1] http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com... [2] http://iopscience.iop.org... [3] http://www.skepticalscience.com... [4] http://www.meteo.psu.edu... [5] http://www.ncdc.noaa.gov... [6] http://www.ncdc.noaa.gov... [7] http://www.cgd.ucar.edu... [8] http://www.ipcc.ch... [9] http://www.sciencemag.org... [10] http://www.realclimate.org... R3: A single, self-described proponent of climate change being wrong, on a single instance, has no relevance to the ultimate scientific validity of climate change. This is hardly worth rebutting. Can we move discussion to the science, rather than people, and badly reported news stories? R4: Con argues that sea level rise has not occurred and cites Mrner, whose work has consistently been discredited by the organisations that he claims to represent: ""Mrner claims that the ""true experts"" think this data is wrong (emphasis added): ""The worlds true experts on sea level are to be found at the INQUA (International Union for Quaternary Research) commission on Sea Level Changes and Coastal Evolution (of which I am a former president), not at the IPCC. Our research is what the climate lobby might call an inconvenient truth: it shows that sea levels have been oscillating close to the present level for the last three centuries. This is not due to melting glaciers: sea levels are affected by a great many factors, such as the speed at which the earth rotates. They rose in the order of 10 to 11cm between 1850 and 1940, stopped rising or maybe even fell a little until 1970, and have remained roughly flat ever since."" This is quite different from the INQUA official position on climate change, which opens by saying (emphasis added): Climate change is real There is now strong evidence that significant global warming is occurring. The evidence comes from direct measurements of rising surface air temperatures and subsurface ocean temperatures and, indirectly, from increases in average global sea levels, retreating glaciers, and changes in many physical and biological systems. It is very likely that most of the observed increase in global temperatures since the mid-twentieth century is due to human-induced increases in greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere (IPCC 2007)."" [1] Unfortunately ounces up and down slightly from year to year so it's possible to cherry-pick data falsely suggesting the overall trend is flat, falling or linear. Credible sources will all display sea level averages over the long term. Here is a study done by the University of Colorado [2]: It shows a clear trend in sea level movement since 1995. Another study, analysing global mean sea level from 1870 through 2006 determined another clear trend[3]: [1] http://www.skepticalscience.com... [2] http://sealevel.colorado.edu... [3] http://academics.eckerd.edu... R5: Con has not provided a single relevant source, which, quite frankly, in an entirely statistical and scientific argument, is unacceptable. I cannot rebut imaginary data. Next round, please provide valid sources and explain their relevance, and I will take delight in rebutting them, Conclusion Much of Con's argument has been founded on bare assertions and comprehensive misinterpretations of climate science. I have rebutted all his sourced claims, and hopefully cleared up much of his misunderstanding in regard to climate feedback. Onto the next round. Good luck, Con."	PRO	56
56	Sde92ac8b-A9d7bbee6	Anthropogenic Climate Change Exists	"My opponent claims that the ""climate competitors"" of CO2 account for an unknown portion of temperature anomaly. We actually have a comprehensive understanding of both chemical and physical factors of climate change. He is correct that if we compared a chart of barbecue emissions with a chart of atmospheric heating, it would be absurd to assume barbecuing causes global warming. However, if we measured the effects of shortwave radiation, longwave radiation, the manner in which each passes through clouds, the effects of vegetation, the net greenhouse effects of the oceans, and emissions of non-barbecuing greenhouse gases, we would be in a much better position to say whether barbecue emissions cause global warming. [5] Con correctly argues that the barbecue theory would be defeated by showing that the volume of charcoal is insufficient. So back to the discussion, what's the volume of CO2 output? The United States alone has a crude oil energy output of 19,420,000,000,000,000 British Thermal Units [6]. Is this comparable to backyard barbecues? [5] The fifth report by the International Panel of Climate Change [7] claims that ""Human influence on the climate system is clear. This is evident from the increasing greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere, positive radiative forcing, observed warming, and understanding of the climate system."" It presents evidence that the CO2 output of fossil fuels and anthropogenic land usage together total are nearly three times higher than the CO2 output of rock weathering, volcanic activity, total respiration of life forms, forest fires and freshwater outgassing combined. [5] Con offers a reconstruction of the last 650,000,000 years, but this is a discussion about the years 1900 to 2200. Geological time is slow enough to be irrelevant in the 3-century blip we are discussing. In this context, hundreds of millions of years is simply beyond a defensible scale. CO2 levels are not higher than what they were 100,000,000 years ago before the existence of humans, but they are higher than they have been in 400,000 years. ""Current climate science has no explanation for the major climate variations of the past 2,000 years."" I have BOP for my claims about modern climate observations, but Con needs to provide a source for this claim. ""That's why the discredited global warming hockey stick attempted to prove there were no past variations."" Source and specifics would be appreciated. Con claims that CO2 follows temperature rather than causing temperature, claiming the graphs are in a link. I would appreciate if Con could import these graphs into DBO and reference them as individual images, as I am unable to find an image that matches this description in the link provided. The Nature article quoted by Con demonstrates that solar insulation changed the Earth's climate more in 2,000 years than the human race has in 250 years. It does not suggest that the factors it discusses could compete with the human race during industrial and post-industrial ages. Again, this is a discussion about a 300 year timespan. [5] ""Historically, Arctic ice melts when Antarctic ice increases in a cycle of 40 to 60 years called the Pacific Decadal Oscillation (PDO)."" The Pacific Decadal Oscillation has no relation to the absorption of energy by the oceans from the years 1970 to 2010, which have shown a strong increase in net energy both in the liquid oceans and in the polar ice caps. The Antarctic surge is so big that overall, although Arctic ice has decreased, the frozen area around both poles is one million square kilometres more than the long-term average. Both Arctic and Antarctic temperatures are supposed to be far below freezing, and neither will commence a serious level of shrinking until they reach the melting temperature of water. As the top of the ice caps melt, the water runs down and is cooled by the ice below, slightly reducing or maintaining the total mass of the ice while possibly increasing the total area. However, it also increases the average temperatures of the Antarctic and Arctic. 5. http://www.climatechange2013.org... 6. http://www.usdebtclock.org... 7. http://www.climatechange2013.org..."	PRO	57
57	S39f3ff96-A8f50845d	Global warming is likely (and mostly) anthropogenic	Correlation Deception First off I did not ignore Pros study I rebutted it with a more recent study, which was much more extensive than the study provided by Pro. This false accusation is a weak attempt to deceive the voters. Furthermore, while Pro has not claimed CO2 was the only cause of global warming, he did argue than man was the main cause of global warming due to their production of CO2. Lag Pro tries to claim that temperatures now lag behind CO2. In actuality CO2 still lags behind temperatures. The only difference is that instead of lagging by hundreds of years it now lags by only 11 to 12 months. (1) Greenhouse Effect I have not now, nor have I ever denied the existence of the greenhouse effect. I do however disagree to the extent in which man has contributed to the greenhouse effect. As Pros chart shows, the greenhouse effect converts solar activity to heat in the lower atmosphere, but in the upper atmosphere it prevents solar activity from reaching the lower atmosphere. If the cooling effect in the upper atmosphere is 100 times greater than the heating effect in the lower atmosphere, than the cooling effect of the upper atmosphere cancels out the heating effect of the lower atmosphere. You cannot look at one without the other. Correlation strength Pros rebuttal is based on the assumption that temperature now lags CO2; which it clearly does not. The role CO2 plays in global temperatures, if any, is too insignificant to be of any concern. (1) According to geological records, sunspot cycle length plays a much larger role than CO2. It is far more likely that the sun is the real cause of Global Warming. (2) My opponent cited a graph with a J-peg link, so I have no info to verify his study. Pro claims that the graph shows a stronger correlation using global temperatures, yet fails to provide any statistical information regarding the claim. By looking at the graph, I cannot see a strong correlation, as many times the temperature dips as CO2 rises, and the data points in the trends dont seem to correlate with one another. A bigger issue is that looking at past data, the correlation between CO2 and global temperatures tends to be very week. When CO2 was 7000 ppm the global temp was only 22 C, which was the same global temperature as when it was 1200 ppm. (3) Ocean levels Pro claims that if CO2 levels were the same as millions of years ago, than there would be unprecedented warming; this is a false assumption. I did not say that temperature always correlates with CO2; only that recent correlation can be explained by oceanic temperature fluctuations. There are a number of other causes for CO2 levels, throughout history. This only shows that CO2 levels were much higher in the past, and it was not the end of the world. That 2% figure came from the data pro provided. Pro tries to claim that a correlation between the industrial revolution and the rise in CO2 proves man caused the rise; once again correlation does not equal causation. According to studies, man is only responsible for 3.225% of CO2, which is close to the 2% figure received from Pros data. Water vapor also accounts for 95% of all greenhouse gases. (4) Pro misrepresented my source. My source said, the most comprehensive records to date on a major change in Earths climate came from the EPICA Dome C ice core on the Antarctic Plateau. Pro skipped to the end of the article, clearly without reading its contents. At the end of the article it says that Parrenins team addresses these concerns with a new method that establishes the different ages of the gas and ice.... The researchers then compared results from multiple locations to reduce the margin of error. Thus the raw data showed a gap of up to 1,400 years. After correcting for the margin of error their published results show CO2 lagged temperature by less than 200 years. The study still found that CO2 lagged temperature; by correcting for the margin of error they reduced the gap. (5) Past Climate Pro attempts to refute my source, by citing Wikipedia; wiki is not the most reliable of sources. Even if the medieval warming period was on average cooler than today, it does not negate from the fact that the earth was much warmer in earths history previous to the medieval warm period. The medieval warm period occurred before the little ice age, and we have been warming since the end of the little ice age. Simply because it is hotter in point B than in point C does not mean man caused it to be hotter, especially when point A was hotter than point B and point C. Most of the history of Earths temperature was remained unchallenged because pro decided to fixate on the medieval warming period. 5. The sun Pro is once again cherry picking quotes from my source, in order to misrepresent my sources. Pro tried to quote my NASA source, in attempt to prove that the increase in sun activity was insignificant. But he quoted them out of context. The current heating trend was caused by the sun, but for it to pose any real threat it would have to continue for a century or more. If pro read on he would have seen that my source also says; TSI interaction with the Earth's atmosphere, oceans and landmasses is the biggest factor determining our climate. To put it into perspective, decreases in TSI of 0.2 percent occur during the weeklong passage of large sunspot groups across our side of the sun. These changes are relatively insignificant compared to the sun's total output of energy, yet equivalent to all the energy that mankind uses in a year. According to Willson, small variations, like the one found in this study, if sustained over many decades, could have significant climate effects. (6) Conclusion CO2 has a week correlation to the changes in temperature. In recent years the correlation has gotten stronger, but the correlation lags behind the temperature fluctuations. The cooling effects of greenhouse gases are 100 times greater than their heating effects. Most greenhouse gases are natural, with only a tiny fraction being man made. The sun is primarily responsible for climate change. 1.) http://www.thegwpf.org... 2.) http://paulmacrae.com... 3.) http://www.ei.lehigh.edu... 4.) http://blog.deadlycomputer.com... 5.) http://www.scientificamerican.com... 6.) http://www.nasa.gov...	CON	58
58	S29d685d9-Af5039735	CO2 emissions are directly responsible for climate change.	Thank you for the chance to debate this topic. I am an avid believer that climate change is mainly man made, at least now. Your first point was how even though data shows a correlation between CO2 emissions and temperature, carbon emission is not the largest factor. But according to the World Meteorological Organization (as well as NASA and countless organizations and scientists), CO2 is the largest factor of global warming. This study included natural substances like water vapor. The problem with CO2 is that it is a very abundant greenhouse gas which takes a long time to dissipate from the atmosphere. 65% of global emissions are CO2 emissions, making it by far the most abundant man made greenhouse gas. Even though it isn't as abundant as water vapor, it is much more effective at trapping the Sun's rays. Now, greenhouse gases are the largest cause of global warming, while the most effective and very abundant greenhouse gas is CO2. Here are some graphs: From NASA, this is probably the most infamous graph as it shows just how drastic CO2 emissions have gone up. (It won't let me post photos, so here is the link) http://climate.nasa.gov... Enlightening, isn't it? Now this concerns temperature rise at the same time as CO2 rise. http://climate.nasa.gov... This link should have the graph close to the top on the right hand side Not only that, but a massive 97% of all scientists agree global warming is man made. ------- Your second point was that temperatures were higher in the past than they are now (specifically, during the time of Roman civilization). While there definitely are natural cycles that rise and lower, Earth's temperature is accelerating at a much faster rate than any natural cycle before, and shows no sign of stopping like a cycle would. This is again, because of man made emissions, and the majority of those are carbon. ------- Your third point was that global warming is mainly due to sun rays hitting the earth and heating it up. While sun rays hit the earth and that is what causes all weather, the amount of rays stays basically stable like the earths orbit. So when greenhouse gases are released into the atmosphere, they trap sun rays and warm the earth. So the evidence shows clearly that global warming is mainly people driven, although natural cycles may contribute to the increase. The evidence shows clearly that greenhouse gases are the largest cause of global warming. The evidence shows clearly that CO2 is the largest greenhouse gas threat. Therefore, the evidence shows that CO2 is the main cause of global warming. Sources: https://www3.epa.gov... http://climate.nasa.gov... https://www3.epa.gov... https://www.wmo.int...	PRO	59
59	S5d920354-A25d6e29c	Global Warming is Real and is Manmade!	"In ROUND 1 my opponent provides us with numerous sources (primarily a list of doctors and Ph.D's with apparent expertise on the subject) that discredit the claim that global warming is happening or that it is a human created phenomenon. If we pay close attention to what these sources are saying, we'll find that they're actually arguing two different, incompatable things--revealing that my opponent isn't solidly defending exactly where elevations in surface temperature are coming from. One of his sources asserts that the gradual increase in the Earth's surface temperatures can be hocked up to ""flawed temperature measurements"", because of expanding cities and urban development, which traps heat; hence recordings that show an elevation in Earth's surface temperature over the years are actually showing spikes in artificial heat caused by expanding city development. His other sources argue that global warming is a natural phenomona and that the measurements of gradually rising temperatures are authentic but should be attributed to natural long-term climate patterns on Earth. From these two positions we see that my opponent is arguing that global warming is either (1) not happening, or (2) happening but not human created. In this debate I will demonstrate why the third option--global warming is happening and is manmade--is the best, most credible point-of-view, particularly in light of the multitude of scientific data [1]. The Overwhelming Majority of Climate Scientists and Climate Experts Say Global Warming is Real, Manmade In ROUND 1 my opponent cites an impressive but brief list of ""experts"" that claim global warming is either not real or isn't human facilitated. Here he's using the fallacy of appeal to authority to sell us his position, particularly since he's not posting any solid data (only assertions) to back up his claims. How can I possibly defend myself against his impressive (but brief) list of experts? Simple. By posting an even larger list of climate scientists and climate experts that hold the opposing view. Of course if I did only this I would be commiting the same fallacy. So I must also provide data and solid evidence to demostrate that global warming is both authentic and manmade. My opponent posted a seemingly impressive list of ""experts"" to show that there are scientists and capable professionals that oppose the popular view on global warming and climate change. (Some of those ""experts"" he cites have no qualifications in climatology and meteorology.) So how many authentic climate scientists (the ones that actually do research on this subject) believe in anthropogenic (manmade) global warming? According to the surveys and studies conducted to answer this, virtually all of them do [2][3][4]! The truth is the experts my opponent cites belong to a tiny but vocal minority (the ones that actually do research in this field, I mean). A study published in 2013 that quantified the scientific concensus on manmade global warming in scientific literature found that an overwhelming 97% of all scientific research studies that investigated the issue in some way agreed with or confirmed anthropogenic global warming [2][3]. The authors that conducted the study meticulously sifted through 12,000 research journals published over the span of decades to reach their findings [2][3]. An independent study published the same year found that 2259 peer-reviewed climate articles authored by 9136 scientists agreed with manmade global warming; only one author out of all the climate articles reviewed in that study rejected anthropogenic global warming [4]. And the world's foremost authorities on climate change--like the UN's International Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies (NASA GISS), and the Japanese Metereological Agency, to name a few--all insist that global warming is real and manmade [5][6][7]. The UN's International Panel on Climate Change is by far the world's leading authority on climate change; made up of 195 member nations and consisting of 900 contributing scientists that investigate and report on the impact of a warming Earth, the panel is now 95% certain that global temperatures are rising and that humans are at fault [8][5]. Irrefutable Evidence that Global Warming is Authentic and that Humans are to Blame There is a plethora of unassailable evidence to show that global warming is real. Graphic data provided by the IPCC in one of its climate reports shows that most of the Earth's surface experienced an increase in temperature between 0.2 and 1.0 degree celsius between 1970 and 2004 (some places experienced a greater temperature increase; few places saw a temperature decrease): North America in particular has seen a dramatic increase in temperature (about 1 degree celsius) between 1955 to 2005, as depicted here (with some locations observing a more severe increase): To affirm the IPCC's data on the global temperature trend, data from the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies (NASA GISS) shows that with comparison to the base year 1945 (taken as the surface temperature average), temperatures have been increasing since 1910, and have been increasing more rapidly over the last 3 decades (see graph directly below) [1]. This data is consistent with other global temperature records provided by the U.S. National Climatic Data Center, the Japanese Metereological Agency and the Met Office Hadley Center [1]. Since the base year 1945, the Earth's average surface temperature has risen by 0.56 degrees celsius; since 1910, the Earth's average surface temperature has risen by 1.02 degrees celsius [1]. NASA shows that 2013 was the 7th warmest year on record, with the years 1998, 2002, 2003, 2005, 2007, 2010 only being hotter--and the hottest years being 2010, 2005, 2007 (in that order) [1]. Data shows no reversal in the Earth's average temperature change, toward the 1945 base year average. The Japanese Metereological Agency shows global warming data almost identical to NASA's: The NASA website has a lengthy page devoted entirely to the evidence for anthropogenic global warming [1]. Like the IPCC and the Japanese Metereological Agency, the NASA website asserts that global warming is a real phenomenon impacting the globe. And what evidence is there of this? A lot. Satellite data shows that 2012 had the lowest quantity of Artic Sea Ice on record--a shocking 3.62 million square kilometers, or less than 50% of the quantity recorded in 1980 (see graph immediately below) [1]! Since 2012, some of that Artic Sea Ice has returned, but year-to-year oscillation is to be expected. NASA's Grace satellites ""show that the land ice sheets in both Antarctica and Greenland are losing mass. The continent of Antarctica has been losing more than 24 cubic miles of ice per year since 2002"" (see graph directly below) [1]. And satellite sea level measurements show oceanic sea levels rising rapidly--with the trend accelerating in the last two decades. Data from NASA missions Jason-1, Jason-2/OSTM shows oceanic sea levels rising on average 3.16 mm per year from 1993 to 2013; this is nearly twice the oceanic sea level increase from 1870 to 2000 (see graph immediately below) [1]. NASA points out that increasing sea levels is caused by two factors: ""the added water coming from the melting of land ice, and the expansion of sea water as [the Earth] warms"" [5]. As you can see, NASA takes the issue of global warming seriously, and the impacting effects of disappearing land and Artic Ice and rising sea levels refute the notion that global warming is only a metropolitan heat Island phenomena--one of the arguments that my opponent makes in ROUND 1. As data provided by the UN's IPCC, the Japanese Metereological Agency and NASA confirm, global surface temperatures are indeed rising. The 10 warmest years on record have occured in the last 16 years. The warmest year ever directly recorded was 2010--just four years ago [1]. The effects of global warming continue to be felt and show no sign of halting. Sea levels are rising, coastal land is disappearing, polar sea ice is vanishing, land ice is melting. And the greenhouse gas with the most radiative impact in the atmosphere--CO2--continues to be churned out at crippling levels [1]. Year after year the concentration only increases and the Earth gets hotter [1]. In ROUND 1, my opponent falsely claims that increases in atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations are caused by global warming--that they do not contribute to it. These are his exact words: ""Rising CO2 levels are a result of global warming, not a cause of it."" But here he's being blatantly dishonest. It's a well-established scientific fact that carbon dioxide is a heat-trapping greenhouse gas; its heat-trapping effects have been studied in laboratories throughout the world [9]. With the boom of the industrial revolution, which continues to expand into and dominate new countries on a yearly basis, human-induced global warming--through such actions as the burning of fossil fuels and deforestation--has led to an unprecendented increase in CO2 concentrations. Never in the last 400,000 years has the CO2 concentration been quite so high, as the graph below provided by NASA indicates [1]. This is something I will go over in the next ROUND. [1] (http://climate.nasa.gov...) [2] (http://www.washingtonpost.com...) [3] (http://iopscience.iop.org...) [4] (http://www.policymic.com...) [5] (https://uk.news.yahoo.com...) [6] (http://www.giss.nasa.gov...) [7] (http://www.data.kishou.go.jp...) [8] (http://ipcc.ch...) [9] (http://en.wikipedia.org...)"	PRO	60
60	Sa80b0a3-A7992cbfd	Resolved: Human Activity Is a Significant Factor in Global Warming on Planet Earth.	Resolved: Human Activity Is a Significant Factor in Global Warming on Planet Earth. I don't intend on reposting any of my opponents graphs, or data. However it is important that I enumerate his graphs. Figure 1: Atmospheric CO2 for 650,000 years Figure 2: Global Land-Ocean Temperature Index Figure 3: Greenhouse Explanation Figure 4: Average Monthly Arctic Sea Ice August 1979 to 2013 Figure 5: Sea Level Change Part 1: Doubt It's telling that my opponent makes the claim that it is irrefutable, and then uses Figure 2. Even NASA, and NOAA would refute that graph since in June of this year they published serious corrections in an attempt to remove the hiatus from the argument. Figure 6: Corrected Figure 2 Now this claim that the pause doesn't exist poses a problem because a few years ago the claim was that the pause was caused by about 17 volcanoes back as little as 2014[2]. So which is it? Does the pause exist, and was caused by Volcanoes, or does the pause not exist, and was caused by weighting issues in the data? Any reasonable person should now have some doubt in the basic data claims of global warming for a basic contradiction. Part 2: Methodology Bias Understanding instrument, and methodology bias is needed to understand what was done in Figure 6, and understand if we should accept the graph at all. The data that is being corrected is the Ocean temperature measurements done by volunteer ships in the early half of the data. By itself this isn't a problem. The ship data has a higher inaccuracy, but all the ship data would have similar errors, and when compared to the same methodology there wouldn't be an issue. When you mix in other methodologies this error can become a big problem. What caused these differences isn't hard to understand. Think of a time where we collected temperature data without the aid of a machine. If someone has to go out, and check the temperature, and record it there is always the possibility they missed the true high, and missed the true low. When we get to machine aided recording missing that true high, and true low is drastically reduced. Furthermore the error is unidirectional. Missing the true high will only result in a lower value. Just as missing the true low only results in a higher value. We can actually see this type of bias in weather station dataset call the GHCN Data: [3] If we didn't accept the methodology bias Figure 7 would present an interesting problem since the average high increase about 4 degrees C, and the average Low decreases by about 6 degrees C. If that was global warming the decrease in the low would seriously outweigh the increase in the high. Figure 7: All GHCN High and Low Temperature Yearly Averages Part 3: Addressing Bias To address bias the bias must remain as constant as possible. Part of the reason for only debating the last 115 years is that the bias for weather station methodology hasn't radically changed unlike in the seventeen, and eighteen hundreds where changes in methodology were much more common. By just comparing a station to itself, and only looking at the stations delta from hits own average we can show that the abrupt change around 1900 was actually an illusion caused by a large number of stations following a similar methodology, and not an actual change in temperature. We can see in Figure 8 that the change is more gradual like the low temperature in Figure 7. The disagreement between the two graphs implies that the change is due to method changes, and not due to real changes. Figure 8: All GHCN Station High Temperature Average Delta Figure 9: All GHCN Station Low Temperature Average Delta It would be an error to accept either Figure 7 or 8 as the truth. Both still suffer from a change in methodology bias, but they reflect that change differently. They both also high the noise in the data by utilizing a yearly, and 5 year mean. However, if you do accept Figure 7 as the truth you'd still have to reconcile the issue that Figure 9 shows that the Low temperature being higher than our modern time. We also have an issue with sample size. At the earliest part of the data there is only 1 station. It's not until the 1870's that we start to get a decent sample size to start to remove statistical sampling errors, but even then it's only at a minimum. At the peak of the data in 2005 we have nearly 14 thousand station, but by 2015 we only have 10 thousand stations. This radical change in sample size can cause. Just as in 1893 we only had 563 stations but in 1894 we had 1353 which is responsible for the abrupt change in Figure 7. The methodology below is what I will use to address each of these issues. Methodology GHCN Data Analysis: 1. To process this data the first step is to convert each stations monthly 31 day values into a single monthly median value for each station. 2. Then each stations monthly median values are averages to create the average median for the life of the station. 3. The station average median is then subtracted from the station median to create a delta that represents that stations change away from the average median. 4. Stations are then selected based on the date of operation. For analysis starting in 1900 all weather stations that were operational in 1900 and operational at the end of the analysis must be used. Weather stations that were not operational at the start of the analysis cannot be used because they will induce a change in the region bias. 5. From there the data can be graphed, or each months delta for the year can be averaged to create a yearly change for a simpler graph. Part 4: GHCN Data Analysis Figure 10 below is the above analysis applied to the Global Historical Climatology Network Data. The blue dots represent the monthly noise that Figure 2, and 6 hides. We can now see that the average temperature varies by +- 4 degrees from normal, and not the few tenths of a degree that the yearly mean implies. As a note the two largest positive deviations from the mean are March 2010, and 2012 by 6.1, and 6.6 degrees respectively. They are separated by nearly a century, and show that the high temperatures of 2012 are hardly abnormal. If you notice in the graph between 1930, and 1940 you'll notice a clear bulge in the 5 year mean about zero. This is of note because it correlates with the known heat waves of the 30's that attributed to an climaxed with the Dust Bowl in 1936 as seen in the EPA Heat Wave Index[5]. Anyone looking at this data in the 50's and 60's might actually believe that we were heading towards a global cooling event since in the 70's the median clearly drops below zero. Conversely anyone starting their analysis in the 70's is starting at a low, and thus only see a movement upwards. Which may also explain my opponent's Figures 4 and 5 which start with the low 70's era, and lack any data for the early half of the 115 year period this debate is over. We can even apply a trend line to see if there is a trend upwards over the time period. There is a slight trend of 0.0009 degrees celsius per year, but this is with an R Squared of 0.0004 which means the significance of that upward trend is almost nothing, and can't be used for any real future predictions. For those unfamiliar with R Squared we really want to see a value as close to 1 as possible. A value of 0.5 is ok for some things like predicting erratic human behavior, but the more significant the claim the closer to 1 it needs to be. 0.0004 is so close to zero that it may as well be zero. Figure 10: GHCN High Monthly Average Delta 1900 - 2015 I'd present A figure on the Low, but it would be redundant with Figure 10, and given the time and text constraints I will cut it from my argument. Part 5: Is Temperature the Appropriate Measure? When we say that CO2 causes the Earth's temperature to rise what we really mean is that the increase in CO2 causes the atmosphere to hold more energy. The Pan Evaporation Rate can be used to measure the energy in the atmosphere. If you take a look at Figure 11 you'll notice it significantly deviates from a rather consistent trend. I've reduced the time range to 1980 to 2015 to give the largest possible sample of 156 pans in the GHCN dataset. Figure 11: Pan Evaporation to Sun Spots If we accept the increase is due to an abnormal warming due to solar storms that track with sun spots then we have a problem from the lack of any significant change during the man made ramp up of CO2 over the last 3, and a half decades. Since the sun's solar output varies by about 0.1 percent[6] it could be that even adding more CO2 has little effect because we've long since been able to absorb nearly all of the available solar energy. So why is there a spontaneous increase after 2005? In 2008 NASA announced a discovery of an odd phenomena. They observed a Northern polarity Coronal Mass Ejection rip open our Northern Magnetic pole, and thus exposed the entire day side of the planet to solar storms that it doesn't normally get[7]. This resulted in the prediction that solar cycle 24 which would send more northern polarity CME's towards the Earth would, and subject us to an unusually high volume of Solar Storms that our Magnetic field usually protects us from. This would also explain why the shape with many of the same peaks and valleys visible in the data. [1] https://www.ncdc.noaa.gov... [2] http://time.com... [3] ftp.ncdc.noaa.gov/pub/data/ghcn/daily/ [4] https://en.wikipedia.org... (Only as a reference to a historical fact) [5] http://www3.epa.gov... [6] http://www.dailykos.com... [7] http://science.nasa.gov...	CON	61
61	Sde92ac8b-Ad082458c	Anthropogenic Climate Change Exists	CO2 has increased by 54% in past 17 years with no global warming, and CO2 theory cannot explain why NASA data, which I cited in [6], shows there has been no global warming for 17 years. Here is the graph from [6]: Pro argued that the average temperature for each decade has increased for each of the last three decades. That does not contract the fact of there being no global warming for 17 years. Suppose the temperature anomalies were scaled to be 1 in 1980, 2 in 1990, 3 in 2000, and 3 in 2010. Then the decade averages would be 1.5, 2.5, and 3 respectively, with a higher decade average despite no increase in the 2000s. The post-2010 data, which Pro did not consider, also shows no temperature increase. Temperatures rose sharply in the 1990s, so the average for the decade is about half way between the low at the start of the decade and the high at the end. There is no increase from the end of the 90s to the present, so saying the average for 2001 through 2010 is higher than the 90s only says that 90s were warmer at the end of the decade than the beginning. My primary reference for the claim that that IPCC models cannot explain the 17 year lack of global warming is Tinsdale's book Climate Models Fail [7]. Tinsdale provides a book length comparison of IPCC model results showing that what actually happened in climate was outside of the error band of model predictions. Tinsdale correctly references Von Storch, but I provided the wrong link, for which I apologize. The Von Storch paper cited by Tinsdale is online, but it can only be accessed with academia.edu membership [17. http://www.academia.edu...] Storch says we find that the continued stagnation in global warming, from 1998 to 2012, is inconsistent with model predictions, even at the 2% confidence level. Tinsdale also referenced the Mauritsen paper, which I linked in [7]. Like Von Storch, it shows that no reasonable tweak in the IPCC models can bring then into agreement with what actually happened. If CO2 dominated climate in the 20th century, then temperature should have risen monotonically through the century. If fact, there was a sharp decline at the beginning of the century and long gradual decline from about the 40s through the 60s. The general trend is upwards, but a general upward trend is what we would expect if sunspots dominated climate. I presented the sunspot graph previously, but here is a nicer rendition [18. http://www.paulmacrae.com...] Temperature is closely following sunspot activity, but not CO2, through 2000 The continuation, below, shows the pause in global warming post-2000 is consistent with the sunspot cycle having peaked. [19. http://wattsupwiththat.com...] The 17 year pause in global warming is causing great consternation among scientists who previously believed CO2 predominated. A news report by Voosen summarizes the widespread recognition among scientists that the models are not working, and that some major factors are missing, although among CO2 advocates, there is no agreement among CO2 theorists as to what is wrong. [20. http://www.eenews.net...] Pro's [5] shows that natural forcing of climate is only a minor part of the model predictions. However, Pro's figure shows is that the model predictions are completely wrong. Temperature was supposed to rise sharply after 2000, as the figure shows, but it did not. Models proved wrong cannot be relied upon for future predictions. As Voosen documents, in the IPCC models, sunspots are only modeled as having a direct irradiance effect, and that effect is negligible for the 20th century through the present. Something else is happening that gives sunspots a much greater influence on climate. Total sea ice is at a high Pro's initial contention was that vanishing Arctic sea ice proves that CO2 dominates climate. That's wrong on two counts. Correlation does not prove causation. Also, global warming is global, so it cannot be that Arctic ice measures warming but Antarctic ice does not. In the last round, Pro changed his position and argued that total ice is important and not sea ice. But total ice has been decreasing since the early 1800s, well before any claim of anthropogenic warming. [21. http://www.davidarchibald.info...] Total ice shrinking doesn't say anything about the cause. Pro claimed that melting land ice in Antarctica caused the increase in sea ice. That's impossible, because 99.9% of Antarctica has never gotten warm enough for ice to melt. There is a tiny peninsula that goes far enough north to occasionally have some melting, but that's negligible. Future CO2 levels are unknown Pro speculates that once there is any warming from anthropogenic CO2 it will take 10,000 years or even millions of years to correct. Pro agrees that warming causes the release of CO2 from the oceans. That does not address the issue of what future CO2 levels will be. It only says that if there is warming from some cause, that the CO2 levels in the atmosphere would be higher, after some delay, than if CO2 were not released from the ocean. We know it is not the case that warming causes a runaway of temperature due to the release of CO2 causing further warming. The data by Rasmussen [15] shows that CO2 goes up and down following temperature with a lag of a few hundred years, and that is true when either temperatures or CO2 levels are higher than present. It cannot matter whether there was one degree of warming due to sunspots or due to anthropogenic CO2, if any warming were to cause a CO2 induced runaway of temperature, it would have shown up in the temperature and CO2 variation of the past 250,000 years, and it has not happened. All of the IPCC models assume that CO2 levels in the atmosphere are dominated by a continuing exponential rise in anthropogenic CO2. But fossils fuels are unquestionable being exhausted, so it is impossible for CO2 levels from burning fossil fuels to continue to rise exponentially. The only question is when anthropogenic CO2 will fall below the assumed exponential increase. Prof. David Archibald, an expert on fossil fuel reserves claims, At best, we might get to about 600 ppm ... [21. p.91] As fossil fuels become scarce the price will rise, which will lead to the use of alternatives like nuclear power, which is present only marginally more expensive than fossil fuels. But let's suppose that the 600 ppm level is reached at the end of the century. That's a 56% increase in CO2. But the 54% increase in CO2 in the past 17 years produced no net increase in global temperature. Because scientists agree CO2 warming is logarithmic, the same percentage increase should produce the same amount of warming. The CO2 warming of the past 17 years was canceled by natural phenomena not in the climate models, so Pro's claim that the climate problem is solved is false. Is 600 ppm total CO2 is the correct number? I don't, and no one knows for sure. The upper limits and the future rates of CO2 production are major unknowns that make it impossible for Pro to meet his burden of proof. Climate prediction based upon solar activity The IPCC model projections of climate depend upon the CO2 effect on warming being multiliplied by a positive factor of two or more by secondary effects, such as the warming increasing water vapor in the atmosphere. Archibald [21. p 1] summarizes: The real world evidence says the opposite. In late 2007, Dr. Roy Spencer of the University of Alabama published a paper analyzing data from the Aqua satellite. Based on the response of tropical clouds, Dr. Spencer demonstrated that the feedback is negative. He calculates a 0.5C warming for a doubling of the pre-industrial carbon dioxide level. Global warming, as caused by carbon dioxide, is real but it is also minuscule, and will be lost in the noise of the climate system.	CON	62
62	Sde92ac8b-A9875c930	Anthropogenic Climate Change Exists	"""Since 2000, CO2 has risen by 54% with no increase in global temperatures""? Putting aside that ten years is only three percent of our three-century discussion, the decade from 2000-2010 actually experienced the highest average temperature anomaly of any decade since before 1900. [5] This is why the fifth IPCC report's ""Summary for Policy Makers""[7] boldly stated that ""each of the last three decades has been successively warmer at the Earths surface than any preceding decade since 1850,"" and could also be why CON provides no source for his claim that the years 2000 through 2010 have ""experienced no increase in global temperatures."" Hans Von Storch told the House of Representatives in 2006 that ""Based on the scientific evidence, I am convinced that we are facing anthropogenic climate change brought about by the emission of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere.""[8] CON has attempted to represent Hans Van Storch as follows: ""As described in [8], Von Storch systematically ran all the IPCC computer models of the climate, and found that the actual temperatures for the last 17 years fell outside the model predictions."" Von Storch is not an author of CON's eighth source. The source has fifteen authors, but none are named Von Storch. These fifteen authors summarize their own work as follows: ""We demonstrate that considerable ambiguity exists in the choice of parameters, and present and compare three alternatively tuned, yet plausible configurations of the climate model. The impacts of parameter tuning on climate sensitivity was less than anticipated."" At no point do they imply that ""the actual temperatures for the last seventeen years fell outside model predictions."" Sunspot activity should affect climate, and if we examine the blue shades of the following ""climate change anomalies"" chart [7], we see sunspots match the evidence provided by CON in relation to both sunspots and Pacific Decadal Oscillation, with the dip in temperatures at or near the center of the 20th century. [5] The blue shading represents models that only account for ""natural forcings"" such as Solar Sunspot Activity and Pacific Decadal Oscillation. The pink shading represents models that account for ""both natural and anthropogenic forcings."" This chart demonstrates the sharp contrast in these competing models, showing that sunspots and other natural forcings should provide a near-flat average global temperature (with curves similar to CON's first round 3 image in North America, Europe, and Africa) while anthropogenic forcings should show a sharp rise. Observations are given by the black lines, and appear to agree more with the ""anthropogenic & natural"" models than with the ""natural"" models alone. It appears that anthropogenic forcings have sharper relevance than sunspots. Con narrates his round 2 and my round 3 as follows: ""I pointed to reconstructions of climate for the distant past and the for the past 2000 years to show that climate has varied more than in recent years, and without any apparent relation to atmospheric CO2 levels. Pro argues that past climate doesn't count because we are only discussing the past century and the next century."" It would be a drastic mistake to argue that ""past climate doesn't count,"" and I thank CON for bringing this potential misunderstanding to my attention. I argued that ""The Nature article quoted by Con demonstrates that solar insulation changed the Earth's climate more in 2,000 years than the human race has in 250 years."" That is to say, the rate at which solar insulation changed the Earth's climate was more than (250 / 2000 = 0.125 ) 12.5% of our current rate of Climate change. Consistent change matters more to larger time frames, rate of change matters more to smaller time frames. This is not because the laws of physics change, in fact this is demonstrable in physics and mathematics. Because force = mass * acceleration, a constant net force of one Newton can accelerate a 1,000 kilogram car to 299,792,458 meters per second (speed of light) in 83 hours, 12 minutes [299,792,458 ms^2 / (1,000 kg * 60 s * 60 min) = 83.2 hr], but in the first hour will only bring the speed of the car to 3.6 meters per second [(60 s * 60 m) / 1,000 kg), or just over eight miles an hour. The longer the time measurement, the more relevant the ""rate of change"" or the ""rate of rate of change"" or the ""value of the exponent,"" while the shorter the timespan, the more relevant the ""application of force"" or the ""constant"" or the ""variable"" or the ""coefficient."" The laws of physics and mathematics all but guarantee that the dominant force of climate change in a 300 year timespan is different from the dominant force of climate change in a 100,000,000 year timespan. The last 50 years of climate anomalies demonstrate that the next 200 years of climate anomalies will be dominantly anthropogenic, [5] while CON's arguments are founded on a combination of 1) the last 600 million years of climate change and 2) the specific decade of 2000-2010. Does he somehow mean that solar, volcanic, botanic, and other natural factors will accelerate their rate of influence by 100,000 times over for the first time in over 600,000,000 years? CO2 follows temperature increase in ice sheets with a lag of a few hundred years when assessing a timespan of 20,000 years, which is why CON's fifteenth source numbers its X-axis in units of 1000 years before 1950. [CON-15. http://wattsupwiththat.files.wordpress.com...;] The CO2 level of an ice sheet is measured by the CO2 level, while the temperature of the ice sheet is measured by the deuterium level. Scientists aren't sure exactly how long it takes for deuterium differences to show up in ice caps, which is why CON's fifteenth source states ""Our analyses of ice cores from the ice sheet in Antarctica shows that the concentration of CO2 in the atmosphere follows the rise in Antarctic temperatures very closely and is staggered by a few hundred years at most,"" rather than asserting that they have reversed the Greenhouse Effect. Their overall point is that the two measurements correllate. The 2013 IPCC report states that ""Climate change models have improved since the AR4. Models reproduce observed continental-scale surface temperature patterns and trends over many decades, including the more rapid warming since the mid-20th century and the cooling immediately following large volcanic eruptions (very high confidence).""[7] I think we can all agree that Michael Mann was wrong ten years ago, and that the graph of climate anomalies is not shaped like a hockey stick, especially since that's not the topic of the debate I instigated, of the points I have argued, or of the sources I have cited. ""Total Sea Ice is at a High""? Which is more relevant to ""total sea ice"" - area, or volume? CON made an argument about area, I made arguments about 1) volume and 2) temperature. Melting the ice caps reduces the volume, but the ice flows down and refreezes, which both warms the temperature and expands the area. Temperature is more closely linked to this debate than volume OR area. It has nothing to do with Al Gore, and the PDO is a mere blip on climate anomaly grids. ""Future CO2 levels are unknown""? ""Once they heat to a certain point, the oceans are expected to start releasing CO2 back into the atmosphere, which may include massive reserves that have been down there for millions of years."" - Me, round 1, CON has yet to respond. A technological breakthrough will not allow sunspots to catch up with Anthropogenic Climate Change before 2200. It will take them tens of thousands or even millions of years. ""Most aspects of climate change will persist for many centuries even if emissions of CO2 are stopped. This represents a substantial multi-century climate change commitment created by past, present and future emissions of CO2."" [5] 8. http://cstpr.colorado.edu..."	PRO	63
63	Sc09112b2-Ae3285dc3	Humanity is the main cause of global warming.	I do not dispute the existence and reality of Global Warming. I do assert, however, that it is impossible to quantify on a global scale, what part of global warming is attributable to Human activities as compared to natural change. Therefore, to state that humanity is the main cause of global warming is, at time present, impossible to prove. Geographers and Geologists consider the state of the Earth at time present to be in an ice age, albeit a late stage. This means that there have been periods in the history of the earth with less ice coverage, higher sea levels, and warmer mean global temperatures. As an example, a major component of the Glacial retreat we are witnessing today is attributable to natural rebound from the little ice age (approximately 1300 to 1850). Certainly human activity has amplified this rebound, but to what degree is indefinable. There are also many other potential amplifying factors, a few of which are listed on the Environmental Protection Agencies Website: http://www3.epa.gov... Note, that even this reputable website is unable to quantify human contribution vs natural causes. I will also cite an article on the little ice-age for the benefit of my opponent: http://www.britannica.com... I would also refer my opponent to the regional research of Glaciologist Dr. Johannes Koch regarding glacial retreat in Garibaldi Park (and other regional locations) which document the geological evidence of glacial retreat since the Little Ice Age glacial extant. The immense role of the Little Ice Age on climate is well established in this research. http://kochj.brandonu.ca... or http://kochj.brandonu.ca...	CON	64
64	S5d920354-Ae6b1ac7b	Global Warming is Real and is Manmade!	"Global Warming is real and is manmade! Over the last decades, Earth scientists around the world have evaluated pools of atmospheric, geographic, and oceanic data to reach the same conclusion: the Earth's surface is getting warmer. Besides registering a constant increase in the Earth's average surface temperature decade after decade, scientists also show that the world's sea levels are rising 3.16 mm per year--(and have risen a total of 8 inches over the last century!)--as a result, a situation which will cause more dry land to be lost to the ocean as time passes [1]. The Earth's warming trend is causing artic sea ice to disappear at a rate of 11.5% per decade. In 1996 satellite observations showed that there was 79 million square kilometers of sea ice in the Artic Ocean in the month of September (the warmest month at the Artic pole); in September of 2012, satellite observations recorded the lowest quantity of Artic sea ice on record--a dismal 3.61 million square kilometers, less than half of what was recorded in 1996 [1]. The year-to-year trends show some oscillation, but the general trend shows a gradual decline in artic sea ice. Global warming is also causing dry land ice to disappear. NASA's Grace satellites ""show that the land ice sheets in both Antarctica and Greenland are losing mass. The continent of Antarctica has been losing more than 100 cubic kilometers (24 cubic miles) of ice per year since 2002"" [1]. Alarmingly, satellite imagery shows colossal chunks of Antartica falling into the ocean, and monumental glaciers evaporating over the course of a mere decade! Most shocking of all, Earth scientists warn that the trend is getting worse! From 1870 to 2000, for example, (since scientists have been recording measurements) oceanic sea levels rose on average 1.7 mm per year; from 1993 to present, oceanic sea levels have risen 3.16 mm per year--nearly double the average over the last century [1]! And what is responsible? What is the culprit in this Earth-transforming trend? Though natural events like erupting volcanoes and biological respiration can be shown to contribute to global warming, scientists are now 90% certain that the increase in atmospheric temperatures is caused by exploding concentrations of green house gases caused by human activity [2]. Volcanoes and biological respiration release green house gas (in the form of carbon dioxide) into the atmosphere. However, concensus in the scientific community is that land and submarine volcanoes release (at maximum) approximately 1% of all the CO2 emitted by humans in the course of a year [3]. The Burning of fossil fuels, such as coal and gasoline, large-scale deforestation, and the emission of methane by ammonia-based fertilizers (used in human agriculture) contribute primarily to the Earth's worsening warming trend. By and large, measurements show that CO2 is the primary culprit in manmade global warming. Nature uses green house gases to facilitate heat trapping from the sun's rays to warm the Earth and make biological life on the planet possible. But if the concentrations of green house gases in the atmosphere become excessive, this can overheat the planet, alter the Earth's climate system, injure natural ecosystems, and make it harder for biological processes to take place and be maintained. Largely because of the industrial revolution, CO2 levels are at the highest they've ever been in the last 400,000 years--and they continue to climb. Research using ice cores shows that the atmospheric concentration of CO2 is now 33% higher today than it has ever been in the last half million years [1]. The concentration is almost double today than the average over the last 400,000 years--and it continues to get worse [1]. Purpose In this debate I will argue that Global Warming is real and that humans have contributed to it significantly--if not almost entirely. My opponent will argue that global warming is either (1) false, or (2) real but not manmade. He will support his position with evidence, reliable sources, and try to descredit my arguments. He should begin his arguments in ROUND 1. Good luck! (My purpose with this debate is to educate the debaters and readers alike about the critical topical of global warming.) [1] (http://climate.nasa.gov...) [2] (http://en.wikipedia.org...) [3] (http://volcanoes.usgs.gov...)"	PRO	65
65	S7852a724-Afe31c611	Global Warming is likely impacted by humans.	1: Does Global Warming exist? Yes, but how do we know? The amount of evidence is compelling and indisputable from the rising global sea level to global temperature rise, warming oceans, to shrinking ice sheets. Other ways we know that global warming exists includes but is not limited to; Declining Arctic Sea, Glacial Retreat, Extreme Weather, Decreased Snow Cover, Ocean Acidification. Now that we can agree that Global Warming exists the question becomes 2: Is it man made? 97 percent or more of actively publishing climate scientists agree: Climate-warming trends over the past century are very likely due to human activities. (1) This effect made by humans is called the greenhouse effect. Defined that is warming that results when the atmosphere traps heat radiating from Earth toward space.(2) This is mainly caused by burning of fossil fuels like coal and oil. It is also caused by the clearing of land for agriculture, industry, and other human activities. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which is a group of 1,300 independent scientific experts, which runs assessment reports concluded there's a more than 90 percent probability that human activities over the past 250 years have warmed our planet.(3) Conclusion: As we can see that Global warming exists and the experts in the field overwhelmingly conclude that Global warming is likely man made we can conclude that Global Warming is likely impacted by humans. Sources: (1) http://iopscience.iop.org... (2) http://climate.nasa.gov... (3) http://climate.nasa.gov...	PRO	66
66	Saa3d5131-A20d9c49f	Mankind Is Not the Main Cause of Global Warming	"Thanks to subutai for posting an excellent opening round! I'm looking forward to this debate, as I am sure it will be an interesting one! So to kick this thing off I'd like to start by providing the readers with a quick road map of my case and how I aim to negate the given resolution. What I am going to do is set up the basis of a cause effect relationship between greenhouse gases (Such as CO2, Methane, and Water Vapor) and a warming trend, and then confirm this relationship with corroborating corollaries. This will prove that increased atmospheric GHG concentrations to create a warming effect on the climate. Next, I will begin to discuss why humanities effect on the climate creates an increased concentration of atmospheric greenhouse gases, thus creating an anthropogenic cause for global warming. Then, I will establish why the current warming trend cannot be due primarily to natural causes. Finally, to seal in these arguments, I will discuss the consensus of the scientific community as a whole regarding anthropogenic global warming. Con's Case I. The Greenhouse effect and Greenhouse Gases To begin, let's examine what exactly makes a green house gas, a green house gas. Everyone has likely heard of the most common GHGs: Carbon Dioxide (CO2), Methane (CH4), and Water Vapor (H2O). Why, though, do these gases cause a warming effect, while the gases most prevalent in our atmosphere, Nitrogen and Oxygen, cause no warming? A) Di-pole moment Examine the following diagram describing the molecular structures of the gases above. So here we have CO2, Methane, Water Vapor, Nitrogen, and Oxygen in either 3d models, or Lewis structures. The thing we must pay closest attention to is their molecular shape (VSEPR Theory). Carbon Dioxide is bent. Methane is tetrahedral. H2O is Bent. Nitrogen and oxygen, however, are Linear diatomic molecules [1]. Now, every element has a different level of electronegativity. In an atom with an electronegativity disparity, a dipole moment forms [2]. This is essentially the formation of a magnetic field direction. CO2 and H2O due to their bent asymmetrical shapes have Dipole moments. The dipole moment ""points"" from the more electronegative towards the less electronegative. More +--> Less When an atom is struck by particular wavelengths of infrared light, the bonds in the atom begin to ""vibrate"" there are many kinds of vibration that can occur (bending, stretching, etc). [3] This causes the molecules to shift around, and in greenhouse gases, the dipole moment is shifted. Now atoms like N2 and O2 have no dipole moment, and no amount of shifting disrupts their symmetry. CO2 and H2O always have their dipole moment shifted by molecular vibration. Methane, due to the complexity of tetrahedral molecular shape, can undergo several vibrations that disrupt the symmetry of the molecule, and cause dipole moments to form. When a dipole moment is shifted or formed, much energy is released as heat. This is what happens in greenhouse gases [4]. This is why greenhouse gases heat the earth when they are present in the atmosphere. Light from the sun strikes the molecule, and the infrared spectra that result in molecular vibration release heat energy into the atmosphere. Every single one of the billions of GHGs in the atmosphere are each acting as individual heat generators, catching and trapping energy from the sun, and heating the earth. B) Corollaries (Paleoclimate) Paleoclimates have historically been a major focal point of many debates on anthropogenic global warming. Therefore, I will preempt these arguments, so that time may be saved in the rebuttals. I will also reestablish the cause that I have described previously, and corroborate through corollaries. Many climate change skeptics have claimed that there is ""No historic correlation"" between the presence of green-house gases and global temperature. According to Royers 2006 [4] the data previously observed on the phanerzoic era has been contaminated, as it has not been adjusted for pH, which affects the molecular shape, atmospheric concentration, dipole moment, and molecular vibration potential of CO2. Quote Royer, ""the temperature data correlate strongly with both the record of continental gla-ciation and atmospheric CO2"". Furthermore, the famous Vostok Ice Cores show that ""there is a close correlation between Antarctic temperature and atmospheric concentrations of CO2 (Barnola et al. 1987). The extension of the Vostok CO2 record shows that the main trends of CO2 are similar for each glacial cycle. Major transitions from the lowest to the highest values are associated with glacial-interglacial transitions. During these transitions, the atmospheric concentrations of CO2 rises from 180 to 280-300 ppmv (Petit et al. 1999). The extension of the Vostok CO2 record shows the present-day levels of CO2 are unprecedented during the past 420 kyr."" [5] During the cenzoic period as well, CO2 was the driving force of Global warming, cite Hansen and Sato [6]. II. Climate Sensitivity/Carbon Another aspect of global warming that one must consider is ""Climate sensitivity."" Climate sensitivity is essentially the amount of expected change in global temperature as a result of increased retention of radiation (via GHGs). [7] Essentially, climate sensitivity tells us how much the temperature will change, given a certain amount of CO2 concentration increase [8] [10]. The reason that certain paleoclimates were not nearly as warm given the increased concentration of CO2 was due to lower climate sensitivity [9]. Current studies have established an accepted measurement of modern climate sensitivity (a range between 1-4.1 degrees Celsius per doubling of CO2). This number is accepted by both supporters and skeptics of global warming [11]. Furthermore, to preempt a rebuttal on the presence of water vapor concentrations, it has been observed that global humidity is increasing [12] [13]. A) Carbon Cycle, atmospheric CO2, and ""Tipping the Pot"" A common rebuttal against the anthropogenic climate change case is the relative smallness of man-made CO2 compared to natural concentrations. The problem with this argument, is that it observes all carbon, rather than only atmospheric CO2. Carbon that is not in the atmosphere cannot affect climate change, and does not contribute to global warming. It can be seen that man-made CO2 almost always remains in the atmosphere, as the natural equilibrium of the earths carbon cycle is upset by the introduction of artificial CO2 And now in the industrial age where CO2 is introduced into the atmosphere in a myriad of ways, we can see that atmospheric CO2 levels are at a record level. Then, as GHGs warm the Earth, positive feedback loops occur. Thus, humanity has ""tipped the pot."" B) Positive Feedback Positive feedback comes in many forms in climate change. The problem with global warming, is that said warming can result in the death of vegetation (due to droughts) and the warming of the ocean. Both of these further reduce the maximum absorption of the Earths carbon cycle, thus resulting in even more CO2 being released into the atmosphere. [14] These kinds of emissions are referred to as ""indirect emissions"" as humans did not directly produce these GHG emissions, they are directly responsible for the factors that resulted in this emission. This emission also comes from other human practices, such as deforestation, and pollution of the ocean. III. What makes anthropogenic warming different from natural warming? The key difference between the current modern global warming, and previous eras of natural warming, is that the current warming period is undoubtedly the fastest in the Earth's history. ""Carbon dioxide and other global warming pollutants are collecting in the atmosphere like a thickening blanket, trapping the sun's heat and causing the planet to warm up. Although local temperatures fluctuate naturally, over the past 50 years the average global temperature has increased at the fastest rate in recorded history."" The Global scientific community has reached a 97% consensus that the current trend cannot be accounted for by natural forces. 18 scientific associations have examined and produced data on the climate, and have stated ""Observations throughout the world make it clear that climate change is occurring, and rigorous scientific research demonstrates that the greenhouse gases emitted by human activities are the primary driver.""[15][16][17][18][19][20][21] This is not an appeal to authority, as every single one of these quotes a backed by countless empirically verified, and peer reviewed studies. This is not a claim made by a single scientist, this is an overwhelming preponderance of evidence. A) Atmospheric Carbon Levels Atmospheric carbon levels, as previously mentioned, have never been this high. Record breaking levels of CO2 (a known GHG) have acted upon the Earth. Never before have atmospheric carbon levels been seen at this level. Natural CO2 cycles cannot account for this warming. Natural warming cycles of this Earth cannot account for how rapidly the earth is heating. IIII. Preponderance of evidence The evidence that suggest the reality of anthropogenic is, simply put, insurmountable. The weight of the evidence collected and scrutinized that points to the reality of anthropogenic global warming, when compared to the evidence presented against is like comparing the weight of a blue whale to the weight of a vole. Consider the following famous ""Powell Charts."" Peer reviewed climatology articles 1991-2012 Peer reviewed studies 2013 This isn't simply just scientists saying ""I think anthropogenic global warming is real!"" This is thousands of experts performing countless experiments, collecting endless data that they, as experts, have critically analyzed, and have found that the data demonstrates definitively that man-made global warming exists, and is the driving force behind climate change. Summary There is no room in the scientific community for climate change deniers Sources in comments."	CON	67
67	S39f3ff96-A8b0d3880	Global warming is likely (and mostly) anthropogenic	I would like to thank DanT for accepting this debate. To not confuse other members, I would like to clarify that I am devils advocating. I will be presenting similar ideas and data points as presented in the Rational Wiki article, but will expand on their current content [1]. 1. The Earth's atmosphere keeps the planet much warmer than it would be without an atmosphere. Unless my opponent disagrees, I will proceed to the next point. 2. The main gases which contribute to this are carbon dioxide, methane and water vapor. Collectively these are called greenhouse gases. Unless my opponent disagrees, I will proceed. 3. The ability of these gases to act as greenhouse gases can be shown in a laboratory. Although my opponent likely agrees, I would like to expand on this somewhat. CO2 is a greenhouse gas and causes some warming. My opponent will likely argue, if he disagrees with this point, that the CO2 effect is minimal or the climate system deals with this through negative climate feedbacks. However, the empirical and peer-reviewed literature obliterates these claims. Recent studies have ranked CO2 the largest factor in the modern warming by far (figure right), and that the feedbacks amplify this initial greenhouse warming substantially (left) [2]. The National Research Council has come to similar conclusions noting, A strong, credible body of scientific evidence shows that climate change is occurring, is caused largely by human activities, and poses significant risks for a broad range of human and natural systems.[3] Former research by Mike Lockwood, who used to be a skeptic and favor a celestial origin of climate change, has published studies noting that the main forcing in climate is human emissionsnamely, CO2humans cause at least 75% of the modern warm period [4]. These laboratory measurements seem to be at work in our atmosphere. 4. The quantity of these greenhouse gases in the atmosphere has increased sharply since the Industrial Revolution, and their concentration continues to do so. My opponent likely agrees, again. 5. The concentration of these gases has increased as a consequence of human activity. Skeptic scientists also agree with thisall measurements here (well, nearly all) indicate that most of the CO2 increase is due to manmade sources. 6. The temperature of Earth's atmosphere has been increasing and continues to increase. The fact that we are in a warming phase is uncontroversial [5][6]. 7. The increase in global temperature correlates with the increases of greenhouse gases. This is also a fact. Indeed, independent measurements have proven that long wave radiation is exiting at a slower pace indicating greenhouse gases, to some extent, have warmed the earth. Most likely very significantly [7]. Nearly every estimate shows excellent correlation between the two (co2 vs temperature) [8]. Other data using CO2 measurements from Mauna Loa vs global temperatures has found a remarkably close correlation between CO2 and Climate [9]. Further analysis of paleoclimate noted CO2 has amplified past warmings [10]. --- That is it, for now. 1. http://rationalwiki.org... 2. http://www.giss.nasa.gov... 3. http://nas-sites.org... 4. http://rspa.royalsocietypublishing.org... 5. http://www.ipcc.ch... 6. http://climate.nasa.gov... 7. http://www.giss.nasa.gov... 8. http://www.skepticalscience.com... 9. http://public.econ.duke.edu... 10. http://www.realclimate.org...	PRO	68
68	S7f312d2e-Ae45d161	Global Warming is killing us	Global Warming is Happening and we will die if something is not done, NOW! More CO2 will lead to hotter climate that causes sea/water level to rise and ice melts, which leads to worldwide sea levels increased 4-10 inches in the last century. Climate changes which cause extreme storms, tsunami, typhoons, flooding, land covered with water steer towards the damaging of plants and human population. In the end the earth is hotter and bluer where it is not capable of any life. The study of ice cores from Greenland from 1000 years back show that there was less CO2 production than today. Extreme heat and drought causing people to die or have heat strokes and lead to rise in sea level which caused flooding. This also concludes that last 20 years have been the warmest years. In Europe at the year 2003, 30,000 people died from heat waves.	PRO	69
69	S842a72c1-A473708c7	Climate Shift	"Pro has accused me of insulting him, I have done no such thing. Quite the opposite has been demonstrated by pro. Twice he has made comments focused on my person and not the argument at hand. ""What a surprisingly short response"" ""What a rude and poorly thought response"" Perhaps I should not have accepted this debate, but after seeing how Pro had attempted to set up a ""slam dunk"" format that included 2 out of 3 points that are impossible to argue against. 1) global warming is real. I reiterate that the FACT we do not currently live on a frozen planet is impossible to argue against. The FACT that ice age specialized species such as the wooly mammoth are now extinct because the ice age has ended can NOT be argued against. Pro's first point does not actually require intellectual debate. 2) Global warming is man made. This is the only point that Pro made that can actually be argued. As I've already argued, Pro's argument here was based on cherry picking statistics. His claim that 97% of climate scientists agree that global warming is caused by man was admitted to be a misrepresentation of the statistics by the original author of the article. http://m.washingtonpost.com... Per the original author (UPDATE, Monday, 12:45 p.m.: I""ve added a parenthetical clarification in the first paragraph below noting that the 97 percent figure refers to studies that took a position on whether global warming was man made or not (66 percent of the studies surveyed did not express a position).) I could get a scientific consensus that Jesus Christ is the lord and saviour if I only asked Christian scientists. 3) Climate shift ought to be a legitimate concern of those who care about the future of humanity. This is equally irrelevant as Pro's first point. Regardless of the cause of climate change, be it man made or a natural cycle, it is our instinct to survive. This point is stating the obvious. In closing I wish to reiterate that this debate's only arguable point was #2, is climate change man made. I accepted this debate anyway in an attempt to overcome the obvious ""slam dunk"" framework that Pro had stacked in his/her favor. Furthermore Pro's entire argument about point #2 was based upon a consensus that doesn't exist unless you exclude 66% of published papers on this issue thereby cherry picking your statistics. The huge wall of info graphics and other data provided by Pro amounted to a fear mongering lecture of pseudo scientific prophecy. We don't even have accurate climate change models that predicted the 20 year pause in global warming, until after it was already observed and we adjusted our old models to account for this new information. Because of this, Pro's predictions about the year 2100 can even be taken seriously nor are they relevant to the only arguable question in this debate. Is climate shift man made... I trust the voters will see through Pro's attempt to manipulate their emotions with prophecy of doom."	CON	70
70	S8006a72b-A3f6dd8ba	Global Warming is Man-Made	I thank Roy for accepting this debate. He is one of the best debaters on the site and is very knowledgeable on this subject. It is a pleasure to debate him. ==There exists a scientific consensus== Before I continue, I would like to note this argument in and of itself does not prove that global warming is caused by man. Actual evidence should be the driving force behind this debate. The reason I chose to put this in my argument is simple: the science is not clear because of consensus, but a consensus exists because the evidence is clear. This evidence will be discussed later. A study published in Science reviewed the ISI web of science in order to take a survey of relevant climate literature as to what the causes of climate change are. The study failed to find a single paper which was in opposition to the consensus position, that the main driver of climate change is anthropogenic. 75% of the papers supported the consensus position, whereas 25% had no position (they were focused on things other than forgings, like impacts or paleoclimate) [1]. The study also noted how many organizations have come out supporting the idea of anthropogenic climate change. The IPCC, the American Meteorological Society, American Geophysical Union, and the American Association for the Advancement of Science have all concluded that the evidence for AGW is overwhelming [2]. NASA furthers this argument, noting most of the leading scientific organizations worldwide have issued public statements endorsing this position. They also argue [n]inety-seven percent of climate scientists agree that climate-warming trends over the past century are very likely due to human activities [3]. A 196 page report representing 13 governmental agencies, and written by 28 authors from scientific institutions, has stated [t]he global warming of the past 50 years is due primarily to human-induced increases in heat-trapping gases [4]. ==Climate sensitivity== As Roy is well aware, this is the key point in all of climate science (we have discussed this before in a PM). For those who are unaware, climate sensitivity is defined as how much warming is produced by a doubling of CO2. Both skeptics and AGW supporters agree that the direct effect of doubling CO2 is one degree C, the debate is over feedbacks [5]. First, what is a feedback? Climate skeptic Roy Spencer explains it fairly simply. He describes a forcing as how much temperature change occurs. A feedback determines how large the change in temperatures will be. Feedbacks refer to how clouds and other warming/cooling mechanisms change in response to a forcing (i.e. CO2, TSI, CRs). He also explains positive and negative feedbacks. Take a car, for example. The temperature forcing would be the sun beating down on the car. Opening the window slowly would cool the car, over time, and be a negative feedback. On the other hand, if you were to close the window, the car would warm (due to an enhanced greenhouse effect), which would be a positive feedback [6]. So the question is whether or not the climate is dominated by negative or positive feedbacks. There is even the possibility of there being no feedbacks, as the positive and negatives could cancel each other out. Research by climate skeptics published in Climate Research has demonstrated that climate sensitivity, based on model means, is 1.9 degrees C. Using differing methods of empirical approaches, they conclude that climate sensitivity is 1  1.6 degrees C [7]. Although these estimates shy towards having no net-amplifier, the no-amplification scenario still supports a strong influence of man on climate. In fact, to put an answer numerically, about 50% of the warming would be caused by man if there was no net-feedback [8]. Assuming no amplifier, research has found that the largest contribution to the 20th century warming comes from anthropogenic sources [9]. They find that of the ~0.7 degree C temperature rise in the 20th century (some estimates slightly higher), about 0.4 degrees of that are due to anthropogenic forgings, or about 57% of the warming (personal calculation from these skeptical studies and personal correspondence with their authors). A significant body of research notes that climate sensitivity is likely much higher. A review of the evidence in 2008 finds that mean climate sensitivity is 3 degrees C, with a range of 2  4.5 degrees C. Based on multiple lines of evidence, we see *almost* every which way to measure climate sensitivity leads to approximately the same result: a doubling of CO2 will lead to 3 degrees C of temperature rise [10]. The following graphic from the study corroborates this: The gray is the range (2  4.5 degrees C), the line in the center is on 3 degrees C, and the circles in the lines are the very likely ranges. Most of them rest on the 3 degree mark, with some under and some above. Therefore, we can conclude that from these lines of evidence, mean sensitivity is about 3 degrees C. Another study replicates the above conclusions. The upper limit for climate sensitivity is around 4 degrees C, and certainly below 6 degrees C. Using a Bayesian statistical approach, which is the dominant [method] in the literature, these findings support the notion of climate sensitivity as maximum 4 degrees C, a mean of 3 degrees C, and likely not lower than 3 degrees [11]. The following graph [12] again details the results of many different studies. The best estimates generally center around 2.5  3 degrees C. Some evidence published in 2012 claims sensitivity is on the low end of the spectrum, however, still note that [h]umanity is . . . responsible for the most recent period of warming from 1976 to 2010 [13]. The fact is, climate sensitivity is high and the climate system is predominated by positive feedback mechanisms. Whether it be due to changes in clouds, increased water vapor, or long-term albedo changes. With a climate sensitivity of 1 (no positive or negative forcings), anthropogenic CO2 still causes up to 50% of the warming. With a climate sensitivity of 3 degrees C, humanity is the main driver of climate from about 1976 through present (see, e.g., [13]). ==Paleoclimate== There is significant evidence from paleoclimate records that CO2 can have an effect on changes in the climate. Climate skeptic and paleoclimatologist Bob Carter emphasizes the importance of paleoclimate data. He compares climate to a piece of string. The current instrumental data (1850  present) is a very short period of time, according to Carter. And when the string is lengthened, we see a lot of climactic variability. Instead of looking at the recent past, we should look at the entire temperature record in order to get an accurate picture of the climate [14]. I will provide evidenc, contrary to what Carter believes, lengthening the string supports AGW theory. Over the Cenozoic Era, which began 66 million years ago, we see clear warming and cooling cycles caused by changes in CO2 concentrations. The sun increased slightly over that time period, whereas temperatures cooled. CO2, however, fell steadily through that time period. Plate tectonics was also accounted for. With natural forcings an unlikely cause, CO2 was the dominant climate forcing in the Cenozoic [15]. When you lengthen the string over the course of the entire Phanerozoic (500 million years; begins at the Cambrian) there is still evidence of CO2 driving multiple climate changes. The GEOCARB study, published in 2001, is one of the definitive proxy records for CO2 concentrations within the last 500 million years. The study notes that over the long term there is indeed a correlation between CO2 and paleotemperature [16]. Evidence from the Vostok ice cores (specifically 240,000 before present), proves that CO2 has had an effect on temperatures. Although the initial forcing was orbital changes in the sun, CO2 plays . . . a key role in amplifying the initial orbital forcing and the CO2 increase clearly precedes the Northern Hemi sphere deglaciation. The study also notes that these forcings are also at work for the present-day and future climate [17]. There is also proof that it is warmer now than it has been since the MWP. In fact, it is warmer now than any year since 1400 AD [18]. Newer reconstructions continue to support this finding, and even extends the dataset. It finds that the Roman warm period (RWP) and the MWP as much cooler than today, and claims to have replicated previous hockey stick studies [19]. The results are depicted below. Looking into the geologic past, we see strong evidence in favor of the idea that carbon dioxide can increase temperature. It logically follows that if humans continue to emit CO2, and other greenhouse gasses, that human emissions will increase temperatures. Conclusion: It is clear as to *why* a scientific consensus exists. There is overwhelming evidence that 1) climate sensitivity is likely high, 2) even if it wasnt, anthropogenic forces still account for 50% or more of the warming (from CO2 alone, not counting methane and other greenhouse gases), and 3) that when you lengthen the piece of string, there is still ample evidence ample evidence supporting the fact that CO2 can drive temperatures. The consensus itself does not prove AGWbut the evidence proves the consensus. CO2 is the main driver of recent temperature changes. Sources: http://www.debate.org...	PRO	71
71	S61b46552-A5e82fe77	Anthropogenic global climate change.	"I will contend that anthropegenic climate change exists. The contender will contend that anthropegenic climate change is non-existent. Structure R1 Acceptance & definitions R2 Arguments R3 Rebuttals R4 Defense Burden of proof Burden of proof will be shared equally. This is because I am making the affrimative claim and the instiagator, yet am arguing for what is normally accepted in the scientific community. Therefore, the burdens of proof cancel each other out resulting in neutral 50/50 burden of proof. Further explanation of r1 setup. First round is just for acceptance and definitions if need be. Common definitions are assumed, unless otherwise stated and agreed upon. Anthropogenic "" Caused by humans"" [1] Round two each person will make their argument, but no direct responses to the other person's argument. Focus on making a convincing argument that if not for your opponent's rebuttal would sell your audience. This is the only round to make new arguments for your case. Round three each person will respond directly to their opponent's round two argument pointing out any logical fallacies and attempt to find flaws. Round four each person defends their round two argument against their opponent's round three argument. For example if I say that is a cherry picking fallacy as a rebuttal in round three against my opponent round two argument, my opponent would explain in round four as a defense why me calling their argument a cherry picking fallacy is incorrect. Thank you in advance for accepting the debate. Previous debate for reference. [0] Try to stick to the structure please, makes it much easier for voters to follow the debate. Source. 0. http://www.debate.org... 1. http://www.thefreedictionary.com..."	PRO	72
72	Sa80b0a3-Afd70e506	Resolved: Human Activity Is a Significant Factor in Global Warming on Planet Earth.	It's unfortunate that my opponent decided to write up his response to the contradiction in his data so rashly. Perhaps if he had taken a day to digest the argument he would have been able to come up with a better response. Since this is a long debate I'm going to use this round as a tldr to summarize the evidence, and give my opponent one last chance to attempt to refute the challenges he's chosen to ignore, or breeze past. Evidence Not Human Caused 1) 1970 has more ice than 1870 My opponent seems to be unable to read his own graph, Figure 12. According to his own data, which he did not decide to toss out, the Sum total of Ice loss in 1970 was between -300 and -400, and in 1870 it's clearly more than -400. Because it's going with a communalative total this means there was an increase in Ice. Now I gave my opponent, and you the judges lots of leeway to reject the evidence completely. However, he has not, and misunderstands what I was talking about with the change in the number of sampled glaciers. When you add in a large amount of sample like in Figure 7 when the number of Weather Stations goes from about 500 to over a thousand the graph becomes exaggerated. According to Figure 17 that's exactly what happened with the glacier data around 1976 where the sampling nearly double. 2) Weather Station data shows no correlation change with human activity in the 115 year range of this debate. This is simply a fact that can't actually be refuted. The truth is that when you do a comparative analysis for weather stations that use the complete set. In other words. they exist at the start, 1900, and exist at the end 2015 you get no noticeable correlation with an increase in temperature. My opponent was even nice enough to find a second source confirming this with a smaller more restrictive dataset. So, why would you want to include a bunch of weather stations from 1970 that have no records going back to 1900 when you want to know what changes in weather can be observed from 1900 to 2015? The answer is simple. Figure 10 shows 1970 as a low point in temperature, and, if Figure 12 is not discarded, is corroborated by the ice data. The several thousand stations added thought the 70's can only show an increase because they started at the bottom, and have no past beyond that, like the high of the 30's, to be compared to. It results in the increase being exaggerated, in much the same way Figure 12 has exaggerations. 3) The Pan Evaporation Rate is by far the most important fassett of this debate. The fact that this rate stays relatively constant from 1980 to 2005 corroborates the conclusions drawn from Figure 10. The fact that it changes in late 2010 to strongly correlate to solar cycle 24 which NASA has predicted in 2008 would subject the Earth to an unusually large volume of Solar Storms because of an effect with our Electromagnetic field suggest some important things. Most importantly that is shows changes in the Earth's Energy footprint, and second that the changes that it shows has nothing to do with the actions of man. So if we blame the heat waves of 2012, and the record heat of 2014 on global warming the real culprit is solar storms made possible by a weird effect in our electromagnetic field, and a dual peak, 2012 and 2014, in solar cycles 24. Man Caused Evidence 1) Sea Levels On the surface it may seem that sea levels support my opponent. However, this requires that he reject his own glacial data. After all if the Volume of Ice is high in 1970 than it was in 1870 where did this ice come from? Then without the dataset to recreate the graph we can't reliably show the CO2 and Sea Levels side by side to see how well or not well they correlate. In my view the bulge of CO2 from the 70's isn't visible the poor quality graph of the Sea Levels, and the source for that dataset has long since taken it down, or moved it. It's even possible that sea levels, and the Ice Data are both correct, but that would require believing something like our pumping of groundwater could have had an impact on the amount of available water, but that's not global warming if you accept that. 2) Mixed Methodology Temperature Graphs A good portion of my argument involves a bit of education about how mixed methodologies can warp a graph. The easiest way to resolve this kind of an argument is to separate out the methodologies, and treat each of them separately. I've done this with the weather station data. Now his latest temperature graph does attempt at showing a correlation between CO2, and temperature. However, if we accept the Round 3 temperature graph there are a few problem. First I'm glad my opponent finally has a graph that shows a clear run up in temperature for the 30's unlike his others. However, this exposes that the correlation only exists for about 1960 to 2000 maybe 2015 since it's hard to tell on the edge of a graph if the trend is continuing, or not. In his graph the temperature is noticeably higher compared to the CO2 levels breaking the correlation for the 30's, 40's, and 50's. Then in the early 1900's it's noticeably lower breaking the correlation yet again. Finally in the 1880's it's noticeably higher than the CO2 would imply. If CO2 so definitively correlates for a brief period in the 20's and from 1960 to present why does it deviate so violently in the other periods? It could be that the CO2 measurements in that graph are an over smoothed representation of the truth, or it could be that the correlation never really was to begin with. 3) Venus This is actually a minor point, but I'm aware that some people will look at the example of Earth, Mars, and Venus, and think that it is somehow proof. Fact, even if we burned all the Coal, and Oil on the planet, and even if we were in the orbit of Venus we still wouldn't even approach the temperatures of Venus. The reason has to do with Atmospheric pressure and Ideal Gases. CO2 and O2 are close enough to Ideal Gases that they actually obey the Ideal Gas Laws. When we burn Coal we actually end up taking O2 out of the air, and put in CO2. Now we just need to apply Avogadro's Law. Avogadro's Law equal volumes of all gases, at the same temperature and pressure, have the same number of molecules This means that the atmospheric pressure will remain the same at 1 Bar for Earth, but Venus has 92 Bars of pressure, or 9200%. No amount of burning will cause us to add atmosphere. We can only convert it. Now volcanoes can inject CO2 without burning, and that's one of the few ways it can be approached. However, even with the same exact atmosphere we'd still be colder because when our electromagnetic field is working we don't get the additional heat that Venus does because it spins too slowly to have a field large enough to deflect them. This is why the Venus, and Mars analogy is false. It is a gross over simplification of the truth. It neglects that we don't add atmosphere, but rather convert it. It also ignores out electromagnetic field which is the main difference between Earth and Venus, and Mars. Thank you, and I await our final round.	CON	73
73	S842a72c1-A2121b022	Climate Shift	"What a rude and poorly thought response. Please, do not insult me when I am seeking only an intellectual debate. Framework If con did not like the framework of the debate (which is a fairly standard format) then they should not have accepted the debate. Con does not understand what, in debate, a resolution is. If I may offer some info to con, a resolution is a statement that the Pro side must argue in agreement with, and the Con side must argue in disagreement with. The resolution contends three cases. Climate shift is real; Climate shift is influenced by man; Climate shift ought to be a legitimate concern of those who care about the future of humanity. As it is apparent that my opponent has put no real thought forward as to what this means, I'll attempt to shed light into the dark deep abyssal grotto of ignorance that is the argument of my opponent. For the pro to win this debate, Pro must tender a compelling argument that every case presented by the resolution is agreeable with. The first point regards the reality of climate shift or global warming (which is a common point of debate). The second point regards the cause of climate shift, if it is indeed real. The final point regards the impact of climate shift (again, if it is indeed real). If my opponent is confused as to what climate shift is, then I shall provide a definition. This debate regards climate shift or what is more colloquially referred to as Global warming. ""the rise in the average temperature of Earth's atmosphere and oceans since the late 19th century and its projected continuation.""(1) The framework is the structure of the debate. The rules. It is always relevent. Pro's Case My entire argument is almost totally unrebutted. Con only makes a weak attempt to discredit a single point. Overall, a weak argument made by the Con that consists primarly of aggressive rantlike points that all lack proper substantiation. Cons argument also fails to meet the BOP. Conduct ought to be awarded to pro for cons flagrant disregard for the rules of the debate. As con failed to cite any sources but one, sources ought to be awarded to pro as well. Arguments are up to the judges, but I would remind that judges that almost my entire argument is unrebutted, and, according to the framework of the debate, any new arguments or rebuttals that the con may try to make in the final round are to be disregarded completely. VOTE PRO! 1.http://en.wikipedia.org..."	PRO	74
74	S39f3ff96-Ab3b492e3	Global warming is likely (and mostly) anthropogenic	"Correlation and Causation Pro claims, The more robust the correlation, the more likely some causation exists. This is blatantly false. The stronger the correlation the stronger the relationship, but it does not prove one thing caused the other. In order to prove causation, you need to prove that CO2 preceded the warming. Pro also claims that CO2 in the atmosphere amplifies temperatures through the greenhouse effect. In actuality the cooling effect of CO2 is far greater than the heating effect. CO2 is commonly used as a refrigerant, due to its natural cooling properties. According to physicist Dr. Charles Anderson, the cooling effect due to keeping incoming solar IR radiation away from the surface is about 100 times the re-heating effect proclaimed by greenhouse gas alarmists. [1] When you talk about greenhouse gasses, you need to remember that ozone or O3 is a greenhouse gas. The Ozone protects the earth from the sun, thereby cooling the earth. A study conducted by NASA has found that CO2 and N2O block up to 95% of solar rays, thereby reducing the global temperature. [2] Correlation strength My opponent had tried to make the claim that correlation between CO2 and Global temperatures is strong, when in reality the correlation is poor; it is just short of being fair. The coefficient of determination, R2, of CO2s relation to USHCN2 surface temperature is only 0.44. [3] When USHCN2 surface temperatures are plotted against solar activity, it shows a much greater relationship; while it is only a fair correlation, it has an R2 of 0.57.[3] The correlation between surface temperatures and the temperatures of the Atlantic and Pacific oceans are much stronger, with an R2 of 0.83. [3] Oceans cause the CO2 rise My opponent tries to refute this with the claim that CO2 levels are unprecedented. The current CO2 levels are 398.35 ppm. [4] 2 million years ago CO2 levels was 300 ppm, 100 million years ago it was 1,200 ppm, and 540 million years ago it was as high as 7,000 PPM. [5] There is nothing unnatural about CO2 levels. CO2 levels have been pretty stable for the last 2 million years compared to earlier eras. [5] Pro claims that humans are responsible for 16 billion tons of CO2 in the atmosphere and 14 billion tons of CO2 in the ocean. Once again, there are 720 billion tons of CO2 in the atmosphere, and there are 36 trillion tons of CO2 in the Ocean. Thus Humans would only be responsible for 2% of CO2 in the atmosphere, and 0.04% of CO2 in the ocean. Pro tries to claim that because rises in CO2 preceded the end of the ice age, that CO2 caused the end of the ice age. First off, there has always been controversy over which came first during the ice age melt. The most comprehensive study to date came out in 2013. Using EPICA ice cores, they tracked CO2 records back 800,000 years. The study found that between 20,000 and 10,000 years ago, CO2 levels lagged global temperature by up to 1,400 years. [6] Trends My opponent has attacked my graphs claiming they were exaggerated without providing any evidence for exaggeration. Pro also claims that the medieval warming period was a local event. There has been evidence found in Antarctica, proving that the medieval warming period was global not local. [7] Other than these points, Pros points are addressed in my other arguments, and Pro has ceded that climate change is a natural phenomenon. The sun My opponent tries to claim that solar activity as decreased since the 60s. In actuality solar activity has remained relatively constant, while the intensity of solar radiation has increased by 0.05% per decade. In their report, NASA concluded that ""This trend is important because, if sustained over many decades, it could cause significant climate change"". [8] The Atmosphere Pro claims that the greenhouse gases that make up the atmosphere warms the earth, when in reality it protects the earth from the sun. [2] Other points All other points made by pro have been covered and/or made irrelevant by my above arguments. Conclusion The correlation between CO2 and temperature is too week to claim one causes the other; a wide variety of natural factors determines the level of CO2 in the atmosphere. A majority of the CO2 in the atmosphere is natural. CO2 causes more cooling than warming. The main cause of global temperatures is the sun, which has increased in intensity. CO2 lagged behind temperature when the ice age ended. http://hockeyschtick.blogspot.com... http://principia-scientific.org... http://wattsupwiththat.com... http://co2now.org... http://www.ei.lehigh.edu... http://www.scientificamerican.com... http://scienceandpublicpolicy.org... http://www.nasa.gov..."	CON	75
75	S842a72c1-A1ae81069	Climate Shift	"Climate shift is demonstrably real, we have evidence of climate shift happening several times during the history of Earth. We have geological evidence of glacial migration that happened hundreds of thousands of years ago, where did they go? Perhaps all of the carbon emissions from cavemen roasting wooly mammoths (now extinct) caused global warming in the distant past. Perhaps it is an unavoidable cycle that isn't well documented because of the extremely long cycle length? We should be concerned with the unavoidable climate shift, each and every one of us should be deeply concerned. Be it man made climate shift or a natural cycle, it is still climate shift. Unfortunately those among us who realize that we need to learn how to live with minimal impact on mother earth are openly mocked as hippies, and those who prepare themselves for surviving some great calamity are openly mocked and tin foil hat wearing nutters. Meanwhile the great minds of our society are pointing fingers and making measurements trying to assign blame. And the great solution that has been presented is to carbon tax our way out of this mess, which of course can only be issued by the threat of force. I don't agree that anything is ""resolved""."	CON	76
76	Sa80b0a3-A982b5693	Resolved: Human Activity Is a Significant Factor in Global Warming on Planet Earth.	You the judges are presented with a problem. Whose statistics, whose figures should you believe? In order to help you I'm going to tell you a short story paraphrased from Professor Helen M Walker that you can find in a book titled How to lie with Statistics by Darrell Huff published in 1954 starting on about page 62. If you wish to debate any statistic, or figure you might want to consider reading the book in full. As women get older they toe out more as they walk. It seems like an absurd conclusion, and indeed false, but it is something the data would say at the time. To reach this conclusion you simply survey a large sample of women, and plot their age and angle of their feet, and it would say that at the time. Women who were younger didn't toe out as much as women who were older. However, it is wrong because it's assuming the younger women are a valid reconstructed past of the older women. The issue is actually that the older women toed out more even when they were younger as well because it was a generational fad that faded over time with each generation. The correct way to do this analysis would be to take women born at around the same time like 1900, and measure them once each year over a period of time like 115 years. Only then would you be able to tell if women toe out more as they grow older. This highlights the major problem with global warming data. It assumes that adding in a large volume of weather stations at different periods of time that have no past to compare to won't cause any deviation in their data. It assumed that adding in data from volunteer ships for the first half of the century, but not the later half wouldn't affect their data until adjusting it in a favorable way appeared to remove part of the argument. If we had no choice I'd agree that this method is flawed, but there exists no alternative. However, we have a sufficiently large number of weather stations that have been in operation from 1900 to Present. But this basic analysis for checking to see if sampling bias, and methodology bias is the actual cause of the change is ignored. There exists no funding of additional projects that says there is no measurable change in temperature in the last 115 years. There is no renewal of tenure for the professor who can only publish once that there is nothing here on a subject, and then must find another controversy to publish on. As for the Hiatus, if you understand my argument at this point you should have a clue as to what it actually is. Over the years we've added so many weather stations that by the mid 90's that ability to manipulate the data by adding more sample would require adding 5 to 10 thousand samples. They'd finally reached the point where the law of large numbers overwhelmed them, and adding a few hundred only accounted for a few percentage points to the total sample. The cost of adding non randomized weather station sample exceeded their desire. The evaporation data by itself is all that is needed to prove man is not a significant player in global warming. The rest is ether to confirm the finding like how stable evaporation had been prior to 2005, and 2010. Or to discredit, and confront the poor methods used to support my opponent's argument. If the evaporation data couldn't show changes in the Earth's Atmospheric energy then it would remain flat regardless of any change in the environment. However, we know it does change, and changed with the predictions from NASA that the Earth would be subjected to more solar storms than we normally do for Solar Cycle 24 due to an unexpected effect in our electromagnetic field. The correlation is so pristine that it even has the same peaks and valleys. If it can change for that in such a fine tuned way then why doesn't it so the change for man caused global warming? There are only two answers. Either man caused global warming is insignificant compared to the solar effect, and is drowned out by the subtle noise. Or that it is nonexistent. Ether conclusion fully supports my argument. I've undermined, and instilled doubt into my opponent's argument. That isn't to get you to vote for me. That is only to give you a reason to listen so that I can give you the time of day. You will vote for me because you will have looked at the evaporation data I've presented, and come to the same rational conclusion. Man Made Global Warming has nothing to do with the enhanced levels of energy in our atmosphere over the last decade, and is insignificant, or nonexistent compared to the natural cause: Solar Storms breaking through our Electromagnetic Field. Thank you for letting me give you the time of day.	CON	77
77	S66bd90cb-Aeda40b4d	Mankind Is the Main Cause of Global Warming	"I would like to thank Numidious for accepting this debate. I. The Universe and Global Warming The current state of the Galaxy and our Sun is affecting our temperatures. I.i. The Rest of the Solar System The Sun clearly is in a warmer phase, because all of the other planets have increasing temperatures as well. ""In 2005 data from NASA's Mars Global Surveyor and Odyssey missions revealed that the carbon dioxide ""ice caps"" near Mars's south pole had been diminishing for three summers in a row. Habibullo Abdussamatov, head of space research at St. Petersburg's Pulkovo Astronomical Observatory in Russia, says the Mars data is evidence that the current global warming on Earth is being caused by changes in the sun.""[1] ""'Global warming on Neptune's moon Triton as well as Jupiter and Pluto, and now Mars has some [scientists] scratching their heads over what could possibly be in common with the warming of all these planets  Could there be something in common with all the planets in our solar system that might cause them all to warm at the same time?'""[2] Two things can be drawn from this. One, that if other planets are warming, that it is only natural for the Earth to be warming as well. And second, that even if all these planets did have natural causes, then that is a sign of Earth's natural climatic change, instead of man-made. I.ii. The Position of the Milky Way Galaxy Every approximately 135 million years, Earth enters a more populated area of the Milky Way, and as a result, more cosmic rays hit the Earth, which causes cooling. Currently, we are in a less populated area of the Milky Way, which means that less of these cosmic rays will be hitting the Earth, which means less cloud formation, and of course, warming. [3] for the source on this hypothesis. The sun can also cause this through evaporation. II. Earthly Causes There are many internal causes of Global Warming as well. II.i. Ocean Current Anomalies Ocean temperature anomalies seem to be rising-along with the temperature. ""...one can model past temperatures as a linear trend (that started well before CO2 was added in any substantial quantity) and periodic bumps... ...temperatures over the last 100+ years look a lot like a linear trend plus ocean cycle-driven bumps""[4] What is causing all the bumps?: [4] As shown in the graph, the PDO, or ocean currents, temperature has affected the average Earth's temperature. II.ii. Clouds: A Continuation of Point I.ii. I mentioned about the position of the Milky Way Galaxy and the Sun in regards to these ""cosmic rays"". Here is a more in depth look at the effects of position. ""The implications, if true, had potentially enormous implications for the debate about natural causes of warming. When the sun is very active, it can be thought of as pushing away cosmic rays from the Earth, reducing their incidence. When the sun is less active, we see more cosmic rays. This is fairly well understood. But if Svensmark was correct, it would mean that periods of high solar output should coincide with reduced cloud formation (due to reduced cosmic race incidence), which in turn would have a warming effect on the Earth, since less sunlight would be reflected back into space before hitting the Earth. Here was a theory, then, that would increase the theoretical impact on climate of an active sun, and better explain why solar irradiance changes might be underestimating the effect of solar output changes on climate and temperatures.""[4] ""Since he first suggested his hypothesis over a decade and a half ago, Svensmark and other researchers have slowly been putting together research to test it."" The results were: ""Scientists found that when shielding was removed and natural cosmic rays allowed to hit the chamber, cloud seeding increased dramatically, and it increased substantially again when additional artificial cosmic rays were added. Svensmark appears to have gotten it right.""[5] Proof here is in the next points. III. The 1500-Year Cycle This has to do with a cycle of the climate that can explain the warming. ""Through at least the last million years, a moderate 1500-year warm-cold cycle has been superimposed over the longer, stronger Ice Ages and warm interglacials.""[6] Here is a graph related to this: [7] There are two things we can conclude from this graph. First, that up-and-down cycles are normal for the long-term climate. This century's global warming is nothing new. The second thing we can conclude, is that today's global warming is not as bad as the Medieval Warm Period's peak yet, and the Medieval Warm Period was less than the Holocene Maximum Period. ""Even more important, the earth is not ""the warmest it has ever been."" In fact, the earth was much warmer during the Medieval Warm Period when human agriculture flourished!""[7] ""The scientists found evidence that on average, every 1,470 years, plus or minus 500 years, cold, ice-bearing waters, which today circulate around southern Greenland, pushed as far south as Great Britain.""[8] There seems to be a full cycle of up-down-up temperatures of the climate every 1470 years. And this goes as far back as at least 1 million years ago. Currently, we are in an upswing of temperatures, just coming off of the Little Ice Age, the peak to be in a few hundred years, making the peak-to-peak difference between today's global warming and the Medieval Warm Period a little less than 1500 years. So today's Global Warming is a natural, cyclical occurence. IV. The Sun: The Proof of Theories I.ii and II.ii The sun's cycles have a lot to do with temperatures also. ""In this chamber, 63 CERN scientists from 17 European and American institutes have done what global warming doomsayers said could never be done  demonstrate that cosmic rays promote the formation of molecules that in Earths atmosphere can grow and seed clouds, the cloudier and thus cooler it will be. Because the suns magnetic field controls how many cosmic rays reach Earths atmosphere (the stronger the suns magnetic field, the more it shields Earth from incoming cosmic rays from space), the sun determines the temperature on Earth.""[9] ""Svensmark matched the data on cosmic rays from the neutron monitor in Climax, Colorado, with the satellite measurements of solar irradiance from 1970 to 1990. Over the period between 1975 and 1989, he found cosmic rays decreased by 1.2 percent annually, amplifying the sun's change in irradiance about four-fold""[6] So, as the sun's activity increases, so does the temperature. This below graph shows the correlation: [10] This graph clearly shows that temperature goes up and down with solar activity, because an increase in solar activity directly correlates with an increase in average temperature 1-2 years later. And as a final side note, I would like to present this graph that helps disprove the anthropogenic cause theory, regarding again, ocean temperature anomalies: [4] So ""nature"" created the same temperature trend as ""humans"" did. Hmmm. Sources: [1]: http://news.nationalgeographic.com... [2]: http://www.livescience.com... [3]: MacRae, Paul: ""Alarm: Global Warming-- Facts versus Fears."" [4]: http://www.climate-skeptic.com... [5]: http://www.forbes.com... [6]: Singer, S. Fred, and Dennis T. Avery: ""Unstoppable Global Warming: Every 1,500 Years."" [7]: http://www.isil.org... [8]: http://www.sciencedaily.com... [9]: http://www.eutimes.net... [10]: http://www.petitionproject.org..."	CON	78
78	S422c0992-A7797f4d7	Climate Change is driven by human CO2 emissions	Correlations My opponent claims any correlation is harmful, but this actually still concedes the point. If CO2 was the main driver of climate, which is what we are debating, then it stands to reason a correlation between CO2 and temperature would be strong. If it was a large factor, it should have a correlation of some significance, though as shown its correlation was under the .5 marks and is therefore NOT significantly correlated enough to be considered a large factor in climate change. Arguing the correlation exists does not win the point, as I agree it exists, but the correlation is not strong enough to mean it is the main factor in climate change, therefore unless you prove the correlation is significantly high (like PDO) you cannot win this debate. And good, my opponent found the study! And its exactly what I cited! One must note, however, the correlation looks strong in the graph but when one looks at the facts we see this is false. We see multiple breaks in the correlation where the trend slows when CO2 rates climb and the opposite occurring on many points in the graph. The graph also is faulty as it ignores the correlation in the last decade by using faulty data. Nearly all satellites show little to negative warming in the last decade. And, as stated, the correlation in the last decade was only 0.02. Based on greenhouse theory the correlation should be higher, and as temperatures have no risen in the last decade shatter the correlation. Why? Simple. If CO2 was the driver of climate temperatures should have continued to rise, but they didnt. The correlation is therefore broken and the minute correlation shows human CO2 emissions likely cannot play a major role. My opponent continues global warming is a problem, I agree with him I never denied its existence, but we differ on whether CO2 is the driving factor. And your graph fails to refute the point that CO2 does not have a significant enough correlation too temperatures. The facts where presented, the current correlation since 1880 was not strong enough to mean CO2 was a large factor, as it was under a .5 R correlation. The PDO (a natural forcing) had higher correlations by factors of two. And the suns correlation was higher by .10 R points. In other words, this point was not refuted. To the naked eye the graph is appealing, but to one that can actually read statistics presented in round two the correlation is extremely weak. So the facts show CO2 is not the main driver of climate. Examine my opponents graph. I made it easy: I suck at photo editing so I just threw on some paint. Every place I put a line is where correlation broke. Look at it. We see 3  4 (depending if you slur the first one together) areas where correlation fails! So even using my opponents eye appealing data, its flawed. And when you use the facts, its flawed. Either way, its apparent CO2 is not a main driver of climate. I also could have added even more as the rise in temperture in the 30s-40s was faster then CO2. So its another break in correlation. It's a very weak correlation is what it gets right down too. My source contradicts me? You get your data from a government source, mine from the SEPP. And when you look at it, it does not contradict anything. It shows the correlation for CO2 is not adequate to prove the side you are arguing, and the data you presented does not prove a point. Other factors You are arguing the main factor in global warming is CO2, which you have failed to do. I offered many other factors, which together can explain for all of the warming, occurred. This is blatantly obvious. I have shown the PDO correlation is twice as strong as a CO2 correlation. I also showed a sun correlation is 10 points stronger. I then showed that it is possible our current position in the galaxy and that relative to the sun via cosmic rays is a good theory, which trumps the evidence CO2 alarmists, have put forth. Clarification was not needed, at all. I have shown CO2 logically based on science is not the [main] driver of climate and that other natural forgings are much stronger then man-made emissions. In reality, I extend arguments here as you have failed to prove that the PDO, with a stronger correlation, cannot account for the warming or the sun, with a stronger correlation and as the only heat source of our planet could not cause the majority of this warming. My opponents case My opponent as pro has the BOP; this was established in round one. It was also established that round was for acceptance and if you posted your case would be irrelevant. You posted. Its irrelevant. Therefore you have the BOP and have no case to prove the statement, therefore lose the debate. Conclusion: I have done a few things: Proven a CO2 correlation is extremely weak, and the correlation it has is not sufficient to prove its the main factor in the current climate I have shown, using my opponents data nonetheless, that the correlation is not as perfect as he makes it out to be and that the correlation in the last decade is almost zero  in other words no match at all. I have shown natural forgings have correlations sometimes of over twice the amount of CO2, and that this means it is likely a larger player in climate then CO2 is. Basically in sum: the debate is over whether or not CO2 is the main factor in the current warming, and my opponent has failed to prove it is the main factor, and has failed to prove why natural forgings cannot explain the rise. In that case, by logic, Con wins. You know and my opponent having the BOP and not having a case that means I just win by default as he has not fulfilled his burden.	CON	79
79	S66bd9128-A4f315cbb	Mankind Is the Main Cause of Global Warming	"I would like to thank JonMilne for accepting this debate. I. The Universe and Global Warming The current state of the Galaxy and our Sun is affecting our temperatures. I.i. The Rest of the Solar System The Sun clearly is in a warmer phase, because all of the other planets have increasing temperatures as well. ""In 2005 data from NASA's Mars Global Surveyor and Odyssey missions revealed that the carbon dioxide ""ice caps"" near Mars's south pole had been diminishing for three summers in a row. Habibullo Abdussamatov, head of space research at St. Petersburg's Pulkovo Astronomical Observatory in Russia, says the Mars data is evidence that the current global warming on Earth is being caused by changes in the sun.""[1] ""'Global warming on Neptune's moon Triton as well as Jupiter and Pluto, and now Mars has some [scientists] scratching their heads over what could possibly be in common with the warming of all these planets  Could there be something in common with all the planets in our solar system that might cause them all to warm at the same time?'""[2] Two things can be drawn from this. One, that if other planets are warming, that it is only natural for the Earth to be warming as well. And second, that even if all these planets did have natural causes, then that is a sign of Earth's natural climatic change, instead of man-made. I.ii. The Position of the Milky Way Galaxy Every approximately 135 million years, Earth enters a more populated area of the Milky Way, and as a result, more cosmic rays hit the Earth, which causes cooling. Currently, we are in a less populated area of the Milky Way, which means that less of these cosmic rays will be hitting the Earth, which means less cloud formation, and of course, warming. [3] for the source on this hypothesis. The sun can also cause this through evaporation. II. Earthly Causes There are many internal causes of Global Warming as well. II.i. Ocean Current Anomalies Ocean temperature anomalies seem to be rising-along with the temperature. ""...one can model past temperatures as a linear trend (that started well before CO2 was added in any substantial quantity) and periodic bumps... ...temperatures over the last 100+ years look a lot like a linear trend plus ocean cycle-driven bumps""[4] What is causing all the bumps?: [4] As shown in the graph, the PDO, or ocean currents, temperature has affected the average Earth's temperature. II.ii. Clouds: A Continuation of Point I.ii. I mentioned about the position of the Milky Way Galaxy and the Sun in regards to these ""cosmic rays"". Here is a more in depth look at the effects of position. ""The implications, if true, had potentially enormous implications for the debate about natural causes of warming. When the sun is very active, it can be thought of as pushing away cosmic rays from the Earth, reducing their incidence. When the sun is less active, we see more cosmic rays. This is fairly well understood. But if Svensmark was correct, it would mean that periods of high solar output should coincide with reduced cloud formation (due to reduced cosmic race incidence), which in turn would have a warming effect on the Earth, since less sunlight would be reflected back into space before hitting the Earth. Here was a theory, then, that would increase the theoretical impact on climate of an active sun, and better explain why solar irradiance changes might be underestimating the effect of solar output changes on climate and temperatures.""[4] ""Since he first suggested his hypothesis over a decade and a half ago, Svensmark and other researchers have slowly been putting together research to test it."" The results were: ""Scientists found that when shielding was removed and natural cosmic rays allowed to hit the chamber, cloud seeding increased dramatically, and it increased substantially again when additional artificial cosmic rays were added. Svensmark appears to have gotten it right.""[5] Proof here is in the next points. III. The 1500-Year Cycle This has to do with a cycle of the climate that can explain the warming. ""Through at least the last million years, a moderate 1500-year warm-cold cycle has been superimposed over the longer, stronger Ice Ages and warm interglacials.""[6] Here is a graph related to this: [7] There are two things we can conclude from this graph. First, that up-and-down cycles are normal for the long-term climate. This century's global warming is nothing new. The second thing we can conclude, is that today's global warming is not as bad as the Medieval Warm Period's peak yet, and the Medieval Warm Period was less than the Holocene Maximum Period. ""Even more important, the earth is not ""the warmest it has ever been."" In fact, the earth was much warmer during the Medieval Warm Period when human agriculture flourished!""[7] ""The scientists found evidence that on average, every 1,470 years, plus or minus 500 years, cold, ice-bearing waters, which today circulate around southern Greenland, pushed as far south as Great Britain.""[8] There seems to be a full cycle of up-down-up temperatures of the climate every 1470 years. And this goes as far back as at least 1 million years ago. Currently, we are in an upswing of temperatures, just coming off of the Little Ice Age, the peak to be in a few hundred years, making the peak-to-peak difference between today's global warming and the Medieval Warm Period a little less than 1500 years. So today's Global Warming is a natural, cyclical occurence. IV. The Sun: The Proof of Theories I.ii and II.ii The sun's cycles have a lot to do with temperatures also. ""In this chamber, 63 CERN scientists from 17 European and American institutes have done what global warming doomsayers said could never be done  demonstrate that cosmic rays promote the formation of molecules that in Earths atmosphere can grow and seed clouds, the cloudier and thus cooler it will be. Because the suns magnetic field controls how many cosmic rays reach Earths atmosphere (the stronger the suns magnetic field, the more it shields Earth from incoming cosmic rays from space), the sun determines the temperature on Earth.""[9] ""Svensmark matched the data on cosmic rays from the neutron monitor in Climax, Colorado, with the satellite measurements of solar irradiance from 1970 to 1990. Over the period between 1975 and 1989, he found cosmic rays decreased by 1.2 percent annually, amplifying the sun's change in irradiance about four-fold""[6] So, as the sun's activity increases, so does the temperature. This below graph shows the correlation: [10] This graph clearly shows that temperature goes up and down with solar activity, because an increase in solar activity directly correlates with an increase in average temperature 1-2 years later. And as a final side note, I would like to present this graph that helps disprove the anthropogenic cause theory, regarding again, ocean temperature anomalies: [4] So ""nature"" created the same temperature trend as ""humans"" did. Sources http://tny.cz..."	CON	80
80	S70cb061-Ab16e5e3d	Man-Made global warming exists* and poses a serious threat to humanity.	"Points Ceded by Con -GHGs are at an all time high -Humans do emit large quantities of GHGs (which he claims is too small in proportion to general emissions) -The ocean is losing its ability to absorb GHGs Defences I. CO2 and GHGs ""Pro argues that humans also give off many other emissions. I acknowledged this in my last round and discussed it's potential as well. Those gases have huge GWPs but are simply too small in the scheme of things."" ""Pro's numbers are correct, but they only represent what percent of the total MAN-MADE GWP those gases make up. But when compared to the total GWP from both men and nature, it only account for 0.278%."" These arguments may seem compelling at a first glance, but that is only if one doesn't take into account climate sensitivity. Climate sensitivity is how sensitive the global climate is to energy change in the lower atmosphere. Cons argument rests on the concept that climate sensitivity is low. This is not true. Climate sensitivity is high Essentially, climate sensitivity is how much our climate warms if we double the CO2 in the atmosphere. (A) Climate Sensitivity Climate sensitivity is high. If man continue to put out CO2 emissions the way we do now, the global warming trend will accelerate. The nature of global warming is such that the more heat that is trapped on earth, the worse the effects of global warming become. This is primarily because as the ocean becomes warmer and warmer, it lessens it's ability to absorb natural gas. Doubling the concentration of CO2 in the atmosphere will raise global temperatures by a minimum of 2 degrees Celsius. A conservative estimate places this number closer to 4.5 degrees Celsius. (1) With the extent of man-made CO2 and its impact clearly made explicit we move on to directly address Cons case regarding the % of emissions of man-made CO2 in comparison t natural emissions. (B) The significance of man-made CO2 emissions My opponent argues ""Pro's numbers are correct, but they only represent what percent of the total MAN-MADE GWP those gases make up. But when compared to the total GWP from both men and nature, it only account for 0.278%. This is far too small to be a threat to the World."" Again, this may seem compelling, but when we investigate what the effect of man-made CO2 actually is, we see his point is not so compelling. Let's talk equilibrium. Equilibrium is the state where opposing forces are balanced. Nature naturally seeks this equilibrium. The massive numbers Con shows that come through natural emissions do not stay in the atmosphere (historically). Before man began to emit large amounts of CO2, nearly all natural CO2 emissions were absorbed by the ocean or the trees. The emissions were at equilibrium with the absorption. Man made GHGs have thrown this equilibrium totally out of whack. The emissions that are naturally produced do not stay in the atmosphere, and therefore do not contribute to the greenhouse effect. Man-made emissions do indeed remain in the atmosphere. (2) Consider the following graph Man made GHGs accumulate in the atmosphere and quickly accelerate the effects of the Greenhouse Effect, and thus contribute significantly to global warming. ""About 40% of this additional CO2 is absorbed. The rest remains in the atmosphere, and as a consequence, atmospheric CO2is at its highest level in 15 to 20 million years (Tripati 2009). (A natural change of 100ppm normally takes 5,000 to 20,000 years. The recent increase of 100ppm has taken just 120 years)."" (2) ""While fossil-fuel derived CO2 is a very small component of the global carbon cycle, the extra CO2 is cumulative because the natural carbon exchange cannot absorb all the additional CO2."" (2) ""Additional confirmation that rising CO2 levels are due to human activity comes from examining the ratio of carbon isotopes (eg ? carbon atoms with differing numbers of neutrons) found in the atmosphere. Carbon 12 has 6 neutrons, carbon 13 has 7 neutrons. Plants have a lower C13/C12 ratio than in the atmosphere. If rising atmospheric CO2comes from fossil fuels, the C13/C12 should be falling. Indeed this is what is occurring (Ghosh 2003). The C13/C12 ratio correlates with the trend in global emissions."" (2) This irrefutable points out that although Con is correct in saying that the natural carbon cycle emits more CO2, the Man-made emissions have a much more potent effect on the atmosphere. Subpoint A points out the sever nature of the effects, as a rise of 2 degrees Celsius could have very severe consequences (1) Summary Man emits a lot of GHGs. Nature emits way more, but the GHGs do not stay in the atmosphere. Mans GHGs are a major cause of global warming, as man-made GHGs remain in the atmosphere, unlike natural GHGs. The earth warms significantly. This warming further reduces the oceans ability to absorb GHGs, further increasing the damage done by Man. II. Indirect emissions (A) The effectiveness of replanting Con is correct in saying that more trees are planted than cut down, but this does not mean that GHGs are more effectively curbed. The fact is, older trees actually absorb more GHGs than younger trees. ""Trees' growth accelerates with age, according to a new study in the journal Nature, which suggests that the world's oldest trees could play an important role in combating climate change. The revelation goes against the long-held assumption that trees lose their vigor with age. An analysis of more than 600,000 trees belonging to 403 species found that trees grow more as they get older, which enables them to trap more carbon than their younger counterparts."" (3) (B) The ocean, and heating The ocean absorbs around 40% of all carbon emissions, natural or man-made. (4) Warming the ocean significantly reduces its ability to absorb GHGs. As I have proved, Man-Made GHGs warm the earth significantly more so than natural GHGs. Natural GHGs that remain in the atmosphere due to the warming of the ocean via man-made GHGs are just indirect emissions from man. ""The worlds oceans will absorb lower amounts of carbon dioxide as they warm"" (4) Therefore, you can see that humanity raises the global average by only a few degrees Celsius, and the effects of that damage ""snowballs"" out of control, and results in disastrous levels of damage. Summary I, the pro, have proved irrefutably that man-made GHGs are responsible for the warming cycles that expert environmental scientists claim to be ""impossible to be natural."" I have proved as well that man-made GHGs stay in the atmosphere longer, and therefore contribute much more to the greenhouse effect. This warming snow-balls and causes even more natural CO2 to be trapped in the atmosphere. These massive amounts of GHGs in the atmosphere heat the earth through the greenhouse effect. These GHGs are in the atmosphere because of man. Therefore, VOTE PRO! Sources 1. https://www.skepticalscience.com... 2. http://www.skepticalscience.com... 3. http://www.natureworldnews.com... 4. http://www.rtcc.org..."	PRO	81
81	Sde92ac8b-Ac6f5e691	Anthropogenic Climate Change Exists	"I thank my opposition for accepting this debate. This discussion is about Climate Change Anomalies from the years 1900 to 2200 (see comments section), and whether they are anthropogenic. Anomalies are deviations from ""schedule"" weather cycles, and can include both hot and cold extremes, making ""global warming"" only half of this discussion. So, right off the bat, temperature anomalies began rising just after the year 1900 [1]. http://climate.nasa.gov...; /> As shown in the following chart [2], this corresponds closely with a recent rise in CO2 emissions. This chart shows that CO2 levels have always travelled in cycles, but broke their most recent scheduled downward cycle to reach their highest level in over 400,000 years. In a sense, one might say nature did half the work on CO2 and the human race took it from there. http://climate.nasa.gov...; /> Correllation is obviously not causation, but the mechanics that link CO2 to temperature have been well documented. Atmospheric Greenhouse Effects: A Review [3] CO2 does not deflect visible light, which is what originally makes it to the earth's surface. Upon reaching the earth's surface, visible light is partially absorbed by the earth or water, and partially reflected. The reflection process lowers its energy level, turning it into infrared light. CO2 deflects infrared light. So CO2's reflective properties for the earth are one-directional. Visible light pass downward unperturbed, but upward infrared is deflected downwards / sideways. This effectually increases the amount of light striking the surface of the planet, which at current greenhouse levels protects life from the freezing cold of space, and at future levels threatens to roast life - not to death, but to ecological disequilibrium. http://climate.nasa.gov...; /> Oceanic Greenhouse Effects: A Review The oceans currently absorb atmospheric CO2 and are undergoing a resulting drop in pH. They are also currently absorbing most of the extra heat from the sun, and therefore are experiencing a rise in temperature. Once they heat to a certain point, the oceans are expected to start releasing CO2 back into the atmosphere, which may include massive reserves that have been down there for millions of years. However, before the oceans can truly begin warming, the ice caps have to melt. http://arctic.atmos.uiuc.edu...; /> And as we can see here [4], though the ice caps have shown about a half-century lag behind the thinner, more responsive atmosphere, they are roughly 1 million square kilometers smaller than they ought to be, as of 2014. It appears that climate anomalies are closely associated with CO2 levels, that CO2 levels are primarily anthropogenic and will continue to be so until the next 'natural' CO2 spike roughly one hundred thousand years from now (chart 1), and that the greenhouse mechanisms behind all this are straightforward and established. 1. http://climate.nasa.gov... 2. http://climate.nasa.gov... 3. http://climate.nasa.gov... 4. http://arctic.atmos.uiuc.edu..."	PRO	82
82	S9b3d820f-A548908c2	Anthropogenic global warming is a threat	"""Decreasing human water supplies, increased fire frequency, ecosystem change and expanded deserts [4]"" Human water supplies have been dwindling due an increase in population size and contamination.(1) Fire frequency increases are likely due to human carelessness through discarding cigarette butts, or vehicular sparks, etc. (2). Desert expansion has occurred regardless of human interaction or not, but it is not affected by global warming and is defined as the process by which fertile land becomes desert, typically as a result of drought, deforestation, or inappropriate agriculture (3). I would like to note that my opponent has ignored the merriam-webster definition of pollution and its clarification definition of pollute in R1 in order to bolster his claim that CO2 is a pollutant by introducing the Encyclopedia Brittanica definition instead. While his use of the 2007 supreme court case is commendable, critics of the designation of CO2 as a pollutant such as S. Fred Singer state, ""Carbon dioxide is not a pollutant. On the contrary, it makes crops and forests grow faster. Economic analysis has demonstrated that more CO2 and a warmer climate will raise GNP and therefore average income. It's axiomatic that bureaucracies always want to expand their scope of operations. This is especially true of EPA, which is primarily a regulatory agency. As air and water pollution disappear as prime issues, as acid rain and stratospheric-ozone depletion fade from public view, climate change seems like the best growth area for regulators. It has the additional glamour of being international and therefore appeals to those who favor world governance over national sovereignty. Therefore, labeling carbon dioxide, the product of fossil-fuel burning, as a pollutant has a high priority for EPA as a first step in that direction.""(4). The paragraph that my opponent dismisses as a red herring, ""A threat to humanity... Syrian Regime. (5)"" is actually not a red herring. The argument is stated as an example of what a threat is similarly to your usage of ""10 Indicators of a Human fingerprint on Climate Change"". I'd also like to point out that my opponent's argument ""Increasing CO2 levels have direct affects to our environment. Such as, the ocean absorbing CO2 from the atmosphere, leading to acidification which messes with marine ecosystems."" is somewhat inaccurate. Granted Water's pH has went down from approximately 8.2 to 8.1 which is in terms of technical semantics an increase in acidity. [However pH is measured from 1-14 with 1-6 being acidic, 7 as neutral, and 8-14 as basic or alkaline. (5)] Also this decrease in pH has been expected by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 4th Assessment Report World Group 1, which also states that the oceans are alkaline not acidic. (6) My opponent also contends that marine life would be screwed up because of this decrease in alkalinity. However my opponent does not take into account the possibility of bacterial contamination of seawater that could harm marine life. For example, the bacteria, Vibrio tubiashii, is currently known to kill oysters, but it is unknown if Vibrio tubiashii is fatal to other shellfish.(7). (1) http://www.aaas.org... (2) http://en.wikipedia.org... (3) https://www.google.com.sg... (4) http://www.populartechnology.net... (5) http://en.wikipedia.org... (6) http://www.ipcc.ch... (7) http://seagrant.oregonstate.edu..."	CON	83
83	S66bd90cb-A3f3cbd4c	Mankind Is the Main Cause of Global Warming	"I am here going to prove to the audience and to my opposition that global warming is primarily caused by homo sapiens and is thus a characteristic of the anthropocene - a term recently created by geologists to express ""the age of man."" I have yet to thorougly read my opponent's arguments, so anything that I write that may seem to be a rebuttal is pure coincidence. I thank my opponent for challenging me to this debate and hope for an interesting exchange of ideas. Either he'll learn something or I will! Three Steps to Damaging the Planet (Human Style) A) Find the gases that cause the planet to warm The following gases contribute to the greenhouse effect... (10) Feedback Gases WATER VAPOUR Water vapour is a ""feedback"" to the climate rather than a cause of climate change. It is a greenhouse gas, but it does not contribute to a change in the greenhouse effect, rather, it changes with the temperature of the atmosphere, and thus acts as a way of telling if we're doing things right. Put simply, we on earth can't directly affect the amount of water vapour in the atmosphere, but more of it should tell us that the temperature of the planet is warming (because it evaporates. We can't heat the oceans by ourselves so we need something less direct.) and thus there's a cause - effect relationship - more CO2/Methane/etc. = Higher Temperaures = More Water Vapour Causal Gases METHANE Not what you were expecting, right? But still very important. Most mammals have natural methane emissions of a kind, and this can change, so this will go into our recipe for messing with our climate. Naturally, however, it is emitted at 270 teragrams per year (9) Come back to this later. NITROUS OXIDE Also causal to rather than resulting from a change in climate, that is, we can change how much goes into the atmosphere. CFCs The same ones that destroy the ozone layer, this time, they're back to destroy the biosphere. I say ""destroy"" because CFCs are as irrefutably man - made as CO2 and Methane are not, and therefore MUST be at least one reason that the atmosphere is warming. (Since they are artificial, to say that an increase in their quantity has non - anthropogenic causes would be like saying that trees can be made of plastic). CARBON DIOXIDE The classic greenhouse gas. Carbon dioxide is absorbed to some extent in grass and trees (photosynthesis) on a natural level, and otherwise may be released through volcanoe and major forest fires, or the combustion of organic material. This usually accounts for 750 gigatons (8) of CO2 moving through the carbon cycle every year, not including human intervention. The gases listed here under causal warm the earth through the greenhouse effect. This is not controversial, here's how it works (7) The greenhouse effect, WITHOUT human intervention (except obviously in CFCs), is caused by the above gases in the above way. Now all we have to do is add a greedy, unenlightened species and we're on our way... B) Ensure that those gases enter and remain in the atmosphere in greater (or lesser) quantities than before METHANE Humans add 330 teragrams per year (9) of methane to the atmosphere every year to the 270 teragrams already entering it, mostly through methane emitted by livestock (a single modern cow emits 270 kg of methane each year), from decay in landfills and from waste treatment, not to mention the burning of biomass. If the 330 teragrams going into the atmosphere WITHOUT humans every year causes 9% of the greenhouse effect, as noted above, then that amount doubling will, of course, ENHANCE the greenhouse effect, causing - global warming. The truth is that it would be strange if it DIDN'T. There are now 2 billion cows on the planet, far more than at any point in history. They, through methane emissions, are enhancing the greenhouse effect. CARBON DIOXIDE It has been mentioned that 750 gigatons goes through the carbon cycle every year. Humans add 29 gigatons (8) - haha, the opposition says, the amount of human emissions of CO2 every year pale in compare to how much goes through the carbon cycle! But then one takes closer look - every year, 439 gigatons are released and 450 are absorbed by plants and trees. Suddenly, the 29 gigatons becomes much more frightening, especially when one observes that carbon dioxide is now at 390 ppm (parts per million) in the atmosphere, nearly twice as high as it has been for the last 500,000 years! The higher amount of CO2 in the atmosphere is also caused, of course, by the fact that our conversion of land for agriculture has led to land with plants that absorb less CO2 (virtually all my references will say this) so that the number of gigatons absorbed (450) is decreasing whilst the 29 is increasing, resulting in idle CO2 sitting around, warming up the atmosphere - as it must as a greenhouse gas. CO2 is poisonous as well, by the way, so even if my worthy opponent and/or audience leaves this debate with their minds unchanged on the topic of anthropogenic global warming, remember that there is still reason for CO2 emissions to be curtailed! CFCs This is an optimistic part of the human - greenhouse effect story in that we actually stopped putting CFCs into the atmosphere when we realized how awful they were for the ozone layer. Therefore we do not put CFCs into the atmosphere any more - it's like a defunct greenhouse gas, in retirement. NITROUS OXIDE NO2 has an atmospheric lifetime of 121 years (11) so naturally even a small amount of nitrous coming out of your exhaust enhances global warming for years to come. And when it's 110 to 240 thousand tonnes coming from car exhaust pipes every year, you know you have a problem. Add 2 to 4 million tonnes from fertilization practices in agriculture and you have a MAJOR problem! Add to this the fact that NO2 is 310 times as powerful as CO2 as a greenhouse gas and you have a full blown nightmare. Given the endless facts and evidence presented above, it would be strange if the atmosphere was NOT warming up from human intervention. The below only affirms what should be evident. On to our third and final step. C) Watch as the planet warms or cools six degrees, the difference between now and the last ice age It is often mentioned that the earth's climate has change in the past, and that is most assuredly true. It is also true, of course, that the earth's climate can change in the future, and for different reasons. However, what is unique about the warming of the anthropocene is that it has happened and is happening so suddenly, more suddenly than in the past. The closest example of climate change at this speed (just 120 years since the beginning of the Industrial Revolution), obviously excluding the meteor that wiped out the dinosaurs, is the Palaeo - Eocene Thermal Maximum (13) about 55 million years ago, when the climate changed 5 to 8 degrees, that warming, of course, took several thousand years. Sources 1. http://climate.nasa.gov... 2. http://www.climatechangechallenge.org... 3. http://environment.nationalgeographic.com... 4. http://ocean.nationalgeographic.com... 5. http://news.nationalgeographic.com... 6. http://www.nytimes.com... 7. http://www.global-greenhouse-warming.com... 8. http://www.skepticalscience.com... 9. http://en.wikipedia.org... 10. http://raytekmalaysia.blogspot.ca... 11. http://www.flickoff.org... 12. http://www.epa.gov... 13. http://www.guardian.co.uk..."	PRO	84
84	S66bd90cb-A59e9d9ce	Mankind Is the Main Cause of Global Warming	"I would like to thank my opponent for presenting his arguments. I. Find the Gases that Causes the Planet to Warm My opponent here is just presenting the different gases. This is an observation, not an argument. We will differ when anthropogenic arguments are presented. II. Ensure that those Gases Enter and Remain in the Atmosphere in Greater (or Lesser) Quantities than Before II.i. Methane Human contribution to methane concentrations is actually rather small: [1] And even if human causation was the main factor of methane concentrations, the amount of methane increase has actually been decreasing, and is now decreasing: [2] Notice that during the infamous ""hockey stick"" (I will get to that later) times, methane increases were actually decreasing. So, not only are humans relatively small causes of methane concentrations, but methane amounts are actaully decreasing at this point. II.ii. CFCs Even though CFCs are mostly man-made in origin, there concentrations have been decreasing also: [3] Again, just like methane amounts, during the main warming times, CFCs concentration increases were decreasing, and are now negative. II.iii. Nitrous Oxide As with methane, human contributions to nitrous oxide are very small: [1] In fact, ocean amoeba are a major cause of nitrous oxide: ""Dr Trimmer looked at nitrous oxide production in the Arabian Sea, which accounts for up to 18 % of global ocean emissions. He found that the gas is primarily produced by bacteria trying to make nitrogen gas.""[4] And that is just the Arabian Sea. And even if cows did cause a lot of warming: ""...a new study found that cattle grazed on the grasslands of China actually reduce another greenhouse gas, nitrous oxide.""[5] So, humans are positive in this aspect. II.iv. Carbon Dioxide This will be my main point. First, by the greenhouse effect, global warming should be starting from the lower atmosphere and moving to the surface, but this is not happening: ""...satellite and high-altitude balloon data confirm that the lower atmosphere is not trapping lots of additional heat due to higher CO2 concentrations. It is hard to know how fast the Earth's highly variable surface is warming, but it is warming faster than the lower atmosphere where the CO2 is accumulating. This is strong evidence that CO2 is not the primary climate factor.""[6] Here is a graph relating to the point, showing the decrease in upper troposphere temperature anomalies, disproving the greenhouse theory here: [7] Second, CO2 levels do not correlate with temperature very well: ""In the last decade, there has been no clear warming trend (as the UK Met Office and IPCCs own figures demonstrate). In the last century, much of the warming occurred prior to 1940, when human emissions of CO2 were relatively small compared to today. During the post-war economic boom (when one would have expected the temperature to rise) the world cooled, from the 1940s till the mid-70s (again, this is evident from accepted data used by the IPCC).""[8] Here is a graph showing the fallacy of the CO2-temperature correlation: [9] As shown, CO2 does not correlate with temperature. This next graph compares solar activity and CO2 to temperature. It is easy to see which one correlates with temperature more: [10] Third, global warming is not starting at the poles like it should be, by the greenhouse theory. In fact, there has been general, relative cooling: ""If the greenhouse thoery were valid, temperatures in the Arctic and the Antarctic would have risen several degrees Celsius since 1940 due to the huge emissions of man-made CO2... Recently, a team led by the University of Chicago's Peter Doran published a paper in Nature saying, 'Although previous reports suggest recent continental warming, our spatial analysis of Antarctic meteorological data demonstrates a net cooling on the Antarctic continent between 1966 and 2000'. The data from 21 Antarctic surface stations show an average continental decline of 0.008 degrees C from 1978 to 1998, and the infrared data from satellites operating since 1979 show a decline of 0.42 degrees C per decade. David W. J. Thompson of Colorado State University and Susan Soloman of the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration also report a cooling trend in the Antarctic interior. ... report that satellite imaging shows increases in Souther Ocean sea ice parameters from 1978 to 1996 and an increase in the length of the sea-ice season in the 1990s""[6] ""Greenland has also been growing colder over the last half-century...""""... examined the temperatures for the entire Arctic for 1951 to 1990, he [Rajmund Przybylak, Polish climatologist] reported, 'no tangible manifestations of the greenhouse effect [could] be identified""[6] This graph shows the arctic temperatures. The blue line is the melt point. Clearly, it spends little time there: [11] This graph shows that Antarctic sea ice extent is rising: [12] Fourth and finally, CO2 is a lagging indicator: ""...the CO2 changes have lagged about 800 years behind the temperuatre changes. Global warming has produced more CO2, rather than more CO2 producing global warming.""[6] So, the theory is reversed. CO2 does not cause global warming, but vice versa. II.v. Water Vapor Believe it or not, the four gases mentioned above actually make up about 5% of all greenhouse gases. The other 95% is natural made water vapor: [1] So all of the other gases' contribution to global warming is almost negligible compared to water vapor. II.vi. Conclusion ""Just how much of the ""Greenhouse Effect"" is caused by human activity? It is about 0.28%, if water vapor is taken into account-- about 5.53%, if not."" III. Watch as the Planet Warms or Cools Six Degrees, the Difference between Now and the Last Ice Age ""During the last 150 years there has been another fairly sustained period of global warming amounting to an increase of about 0.7 degree Celsius. In spite of rhetoric to the contrary, the majority of this warming took place naturally before 1940. This warming trend was interrupted by a 35-year cooling period from 1940 to 1975. This caused many climatologists to actually predict that we were entering another ice age. At that time the public was obsessed with global cooling. Today, our obsession is global warming.""[13] Still, today's global warming is nothing new, in fact, it is not even that big: [14] Sources: [1]: http://geocraft.com... [2]: http://www.skepticalscience.com... [3]: http://www.esrl.noaa.gov... [4]: http://www.sciencedaily.com... [5]: http://www.telegraph.co.uk... [6]: Singer, S. Fred, and Dennis T. Avery: ""Unstoppable Global Warming: Every 1,500 Years."" [7]: http://www.drroyspencer.com... [8]: http://www.greatglobalwarmingswindle.com... [9]: http://members.shaw.ca... [10]: http://www.outersite.org... [11]: http://a-sceptical-mind.com... [12]: http://a-sceptical-mind.com... [13]: http://www.thefreemanonline.org... [14]: MacRae, Paul: ""Alarm: Global Warming-- Facts versus Fears."""	CON	85
85	S8006a72b-A3a696707	Global Warming is Man-Made	== Roys calculation == Roys assumption that warming is linear is simply untrue: Even though CO2 is the dominant climate driver of modern climate-change, it does not mean natural climate variability cannot occur in the systemit does occur. A few pauses or unprecedented accelerations do occur. CO2 is logarithmic in relation to temperature. This means that every CO2 doubling has the same effect, even though each molecule warms less. For example, a doubling from 100 ppm to 200 ppm would have the same effect as a doubling from 280 to 560 ppm. Warming will only occur fairly linearly if each doubling occurs at the same rate. His calculation uses faulty assumptions. His 3 degrees C slope is from my former argument that CO2 sensitivity is around 3 degrees C. Sensitivity is for each CO2 doubling. His line begins in about 1970, and CO2 has not doubled from 1970 to now (in terms of the pre-industrial levels). In 1970 there was about 323 ppm of CO2, and in 2014 the number is around 400 [1][2]. So over that time period, CO2 increased 77 ppm. That would only be about 13.2% of a CO2 doubling. So .132 * 3 is about .4 degrees temperature rise since 1970. It has warmed about 0.5 degrees since the 1970s [3]. Therefore when Roys calculation is done correctly, CO2 is responsible for 80% of the temperature rise over that time period. == Climate model accuracy == Roy argues that global circulation models (GCMs) are inaccurate. This is untrue. Climate models actually have accurately reproduced temperature since 1900. GCMs cannot replicate warming without a CO2 forcing. GCMs are only accurate when CO2 forcing is accounted for in hindcasts. This means that CO2 is a large forcing of modern climate. This can be demonstrated with the following graph [4]: Models also reproduced temperatures after the Mt. Pinatubo eruption. They correctly predicted the temporary 0.5 degrees C cooling after the eruption, meaning models can replicate temperature changes due to aerosol and sulfate forcings [4]. A paper published in Nature looked at each 15 year period since the 1950s. Their models were able to accurately produce those trends as well as many El Nino events. The study even commented on the pause. The authors note that the pause does not falsify model accuracy, as it is only one realization where the decadal natural variability component of the model climate is generally not in phase with observations [5]. In other words, it is the exception rather than the rule. Models accurately predict warming trends, one exception does not falsify the models. In fact, they note models still were able to predict recent trends in the Pacifica huge portion of the world. Hansens 1988 model, unlike what skeptics claim, shows close correspondence with the actual temperature change. His model seemingly assumes more warming due to the fact he assumed 25% too much climate sensitivity. When the sensitivity is lowered to 3 degrees C, his scenario B correlates perfectly with observed temperatures [6]. The model offers evidence of a 3 degrees C climate sensitivity. Models can accurately hindcast warming which occurred in the last century and models can accurately predict the cooling forcings of aerosols. Further, the 1988 model predictions were correct, indicating that models can predict future temperatures. == The pause == The argument that the pause disproves global warming is incorrect. The fact that other forcings can *temporarily* blunt the warming effect of CO2 is not a nail in the coffin. Unless Roy denies the greenhouse effect, it is preposterous to claim that CO2 cannot influence temperatures. The fact that natural forcings have caused a short-term pause does not disprove AGW. Some models actually have predicted the pause [7]. The Met Office has released a report regarding the pause. They note that the earths heat content is still increasing, and is actually increasing faster than ever before. Surface warming has slowed due to the fact that the oceans have been accumulating more heat. This effect is temporary. Eventually, the oceans heat content will max out, and surface warming will resume. So CO2 is still warming the climate system [8]. As noted, this effect is temporary, and as heat continues to accumulate the oceans will warm, and surface temperatures will eventually begin to increase. CO2 forcing has not stoppedits heat is merely being distributed elsewhere. The earths surface has stopped warming not due to CO2 not being a greenhouse gas, but rather its heat content being distributed elsewhere. There is still doubt as to whether or not the pause is real (as I noted last round). Tamino, a statistician, has worked out the data. Using each possible start date for the pause, he ran the p-value of statistical significance. For each start date, none of them reach the 95% statistical significance level. Therefore, no matter which data-set you use, no matter what start date you use, there is no proof of a statistically significant slowdown in global temperatures. The following chart [9] details the results: Therefore, there is little proof that a pause is occurring at all. == Solar activity == Roy argues the sun caused the LIA and the MWP. I agree! CO2 was fairly stable in those time periods, so it could not have been the forcing. Climate reacts to whatever is forcing it to change at the time. As I convincingly argued (CONs words), the sun cannot be the current forcing. CO2 has been increasing, and likely is the current climate forcing. I never said that the sun couldnt affect climate. I merely stated that cosmic rays do not change the climate, and that the sun is not the driver of current climate change. As noted, solar forcing has been decreasing, meaning it cannot be the cause of modern warming. TSI has been falling, GCRs have been increasing, and solar cycle lengths have fallen as temperature dramatically increased. The sun cannot be the forcing behind the current warmingit is impossible. I have cited many peer-reviewed studies corroborating those conclusions. == Paleoclimate == This entire argument proved that CO2 has the potential to change climate. CON claims I said CO2 does not correlate with temperature. This is a massive misinterpretation. I first cited the study which every paleoclimatologist uses in their datasets, the GEOCARB study. The study found that CO2 did correlate with temperature. I then cited Royer 2006, which noted how CO2 does correlate with temperature when 1) pH effects are corrected for, and 2) the sun is accounted for. The sun does not correlate with temperatures, but it obviously affects climate. It only correlates with temperatures when CO2 forcing is included. Therefore, we can conclude that CO2 is one of the main drivers of past climate. This proves that CO2 has the ability to warm the planet, meaning the increased emissions have had a warming effect. Research using proxy data over the last 500 million years find a climate sensitivity of 3 degrees C [9]. This supports the idea that the modern increase of CO2 concentrations are having a large effect on modern climate. Roy again claims the CO2 lag refutes AGW. I already responded to this. CO2 has lagged temperatures over the previous interglacial periods, I agree. But CO2 acts as an amplifier in those conditions. If CO2 amplifies temperature, it has a warming effect. If it has a warming effect, it can be a forcing. Therefore, CO2 has an effect on temperature, and can be the driving force behind modern climate change. The lag argument was solidly refuted last round. Roy also dropped my argument about CO2 causing the end of the last ice-age. This argument definitively proves that CO2 has a massive impact on temperatures. The fact that it is warmer now than in the MWP demonstrates that the current warming is unprecedented. I have proven that the modern warm period is warmer now than at any point during the past 2000+years. == Burden of proof == Roy claims I have not proven AGW. This is incorrect. When it comes to sensitivity, CO2 has a *direct* effect on temperature: each doubling causes about 1.1 degrees C warming. Using calculations from a skeptical physicist [10], this direct effect means that CO2 has caused over 50% of the recent warming. Sensitivity is likely much higher, about 3 degrees C. With higher sensitivity, CO2 causes more warming. This is corroborated with studies using many different methods. With the high sensitivity proven (R1), CO2 is the main factor of modern climate change. Roy dropped this argument. I proved there was a scientific consensus. This suggests the empirical evidence almost certainly corroborates AGW theory. I proved that CO2 is one of the main forcings in past climate. This is important because it dispels any doubts that CO2 has a large warming potential. In fact, paleoclimate proves 3 degrees sensitivity. Therefore, this also proves that CO2 is the main driver of modern climate change. I have proven that CO2 does change climate. The direct effect of CO2 (which no one disputes) causes over 50% of climate change, and when sensitivity is 3 degrees C, CO2 is the cause of the warming since 1970. I have upheld the BOP. Roy, on the other hand, has failed to explain *why* CO2 is either not a forcing, or that my sensitivity estimate is wrong. He drops the sensitivity argument, conceding that CO2 is the main driver of warming in the modern era. His alternative explanation, the sun, was eviscerated last round. His arguments about a pause are also put into question, and his model argument is based upon flawed assumptions. I have, on many occasions, cited Roys evidence against him. Low sensitivity proves AGW, high sensitivity proves AGW, and Roy totally ignored that key point. Therefore, I have proven that AGW exists, whereas Roy fails to put a dent into the extremely well supported theory. Thanks for the debate, Roy, it was fun! Please, vote PRO! http://www.debate.org...	PRO	86
86	S422c0992-A1b1a228c	Climate Change is driven by human CO2 emissions	Correlations As we can see, my opponent is playing a semantics game in attempt to salvage his defeated case. When looking at the facts, though, we see his semantic attempt is laughable. For example, in debate the resolution is like the constitution, a law of the land, correct? Yes. The wording in the resolution reads driven. But the definition is propelled by something [1]. Based on the definition it is extremely clear that the resolution means CO2 is the main cause, based on that fact my opponent already loses the debate. Now my opponents quote of myself also proves my point, as cause is defined as to make something happen [2]. The syntax of this also shows cause is usually defined as the main thing. For example, CO2 may be a factor, but is not the cause. And it is likely human CO2 can have the effect as it is given by alarmists. And even earlier in the round it is made blatantly clear that Pro would argue that CO2 would cause the majority of warming. Based on the resolution and my position as con, it means I would be against the resolution. The definitions of CO2 prove: In other words, it [Co2] is a naturally occurring gas that supposedly causes the majority of global warming. As con, it is obvious I am against this hypothesis furthering the claim that the debate is about the majority of warming. My opponents semantically driven claim fails. And as he never even touched my facts, I extend the argument. In hopes my opponent returns to the debate, and stops accusations of wrongdoings, which I apologize for if he truly thinks they exist, I will build upon the point I made earlier: there is no significant correlation between temperature and co2; especially within the last decade. My opponent never counters the claim in which CO2 has not a significant enough correlation to be the main factor in warming; as for it to be major the correlation should be in the range the PDO is currently in. In the majority of the time, the CO2 correlation was lacking, however the correlation really only was strong between 1980  90, and 1925  30. Note that in either of these years the correlation, overall, is extremely weak. The paper concludes, Clearly the US annual temperatures over the last century have correlated far better with cycles in the oceans and sun than carbon dioxide. The correlation with carbon dioxide seems to have vanished or even reversed in the last decade.[3] Other then the fact this clearly demonstrates natural factors are a more likely candidate to cause warming let me emphasis the last decade point. If the theory was correct, unstoppable global warming and high correlations would exist that would spiral out of control and we would melt! But as usual alarmist science fails. For something to be correct, it must have the ability to predict phenomena. For example, the periodic table of the elements has predicted what many of the missing elements are/where, and many have been found exactly as predicted. Co2 theory suggests warming should be extremely high but it was zero. With a correlation of almost zero in the last decade, it essentially proves that Co2 is not a major factor and the science in which it was built is small, and non-existent [3]. No correlation no bang, no bang pro loses. He says many times my source says differently, without direct quotations from it. I have cited it many times, and took stuff out of its conclusions. Let me repeat, Clearly the US annual temperatures over the last century have correlated far better with cycles in the oceans and sun than carbon dioxide. The correlation with carbon dioxide seems to have vanished or even reversed in the last decade. You where saying about lying? And what evidence? A graph which I disproved and showed its correlations extremely weak, and that the PDO correlation is impeccable? As we can see, my opponent has offered no evidence other then a graph, which has weak correlation. And the graph is in my source and the writer shows weak correlation I prefer not to ask readers to read links, but to prove I am not lying read the summary of the paper here: http://wattsupwiththat.com... Other factors My opponent goes on a rampage. He doesnt care. See paragraph 1-3 under correlations. He needs to prove these natural factors do not cause the majority of global warming, and that CO2 is a likely candidate. But as he cannot do this he goes into ad homeneim attacks which I have been attempting to avoid in this debate. But the funny thing is a 14 year old with newly found testosterone is keeping his cool more then a fully-grown man So instead of rebutting this he just dismisses it based on his former semantics. These where rebutted and the point is extended. So instead of attacking my opponent, I will build upon the case already created. Lets first look at solar, a common sense look as it is the only light bulb in the oven. Many studies have come out, with little media attention no less, that make strong cases for solar forgings in climate. Sunspot number is an accepted proxy for measuring the intensity of the suns wrath. NIPCC 2011 As we can see, there is extremely large correlation, and that the sun spot number and climate is extremely correlated. And when broken into the last century, has a stronger correlation then CO2 [4]. PDO is also considered a large factor in the current warming, and its statistical correlation is extremely high and should never be considered unworthy as a component in warming [4]. Conclusions: My opponent threw all his eggs in two baskets: ad homeneim and semantics. Neither where justified, and he has failed to fulfill his burden of proof, which was given to him in round one. This is an obvious victory for con. [1] http://www.merriam-webster.com... [2] http://oxforddictionaries.com... [3] Joseph Daleo, US Temperatures and Climate factors since 1895Science and public policy institute, (2010) [4] S. Fred Singer et al., Climate Change Reconsidered. 2011 interim report of the Nongovernmental International Panel on Climate Change The Heartland Institute, (2011)	CON	87
87	Se4d5d288-A747e033b	Global Warming is Largely Man-Made	"GHG Ratios: This was not a huge drop. I had previously explained that that 'weak warming caused by more carbon dioxide will lead to more water vapor in the atmosphere, which will then amplify the weak warming through water vapors role as the atmospheres primary greenhouse gas. Water vapour is responsible for much of the greenhouse effect, but only because warmer air masses, on average, contain more water vapor. In short, water vapour acts a feedback, not a forcing[1]' The quantities are irrelevant of water vapour are irrelevant when my contention regarding climate sensitivity remains unchallenged. Climate sensitivity is the crux of this debate, and if my opponent cannot refute my claims, he has essentially lost. Industrial CO2 Doubling: This next contention is unfounded and a bare assertion, so I'm not going to waste character space rebutting it. Tropospheric Hot Spots: Con then claims that AGW models are invalidated by the lack of a tropospheric hot spot. There is a tropospheric hot spot. [2][3][4] Yet even if there were not, it would not disprove AGW because tropospheric occur regardless of heat source, as they are caused by lapse rates. [5] I.E. If the warming was caused by a brightening sun or reduced sulphate pollution, you'd still see a hot spot. All that the IPCC temperature signature in your source predicted was a greater forcing of temperature. Ice Core Cooling: Once again an unfounded and bare assertion, without any statistical backing. I've shown in my previous contentions that warming is undoubtedly occurring, and those contentions have been dropped. Historic CO2 Fluctuations: It's upsetting that you don't cite any sources, because this could be a good argument. [1] http://www.realclimate.org... [2] http://www.cgd.ucar.edu... [3] http://pubs.giss.nasa.gov... [4] http://www.nature.com... R2: None of this is especially relevant, Con is arguing about how good the IPCC are at forecasting temperature and long term climate sensitivity. I have proven that warming is occurring, and Con has not even touched by arguments. Con concedes Easterbrook was falsified, but then goes on to claim CO2 is at an all time low. As I've previously mentioned: 'Because of this, atmospheric carbon dioxide is at the highest levels in approximately 15 to 20 million years[1]. Many skeptics claim that historically, carbon dioxide levels have been much lower, particularly around 500-600 million years ago[2]. But the carbon dioxide level is not the only factor that affect global temperature[3]. Additionally, this position fails to account for the differences in solar activity, that was drastically different from current levels. This position also fails to explain why a comprehensive analysis of carbon dioxide levels over the last 540 millions years concluded that ""Periods of low CO2 coincide with periods of geographically widespread ice."" This is clearly visible in this graph, where the shaded periods are periods of widespread ice."" Because of this, atmospheric carbon dioxide is at the highest levels in approximately 15 to 20 million years[2]. Many skeptics claim that historically, carbon dioxide levels have been much lower, particularly around 500-600 million years ago[3]. But the carbon dioxide level is not the only factor that affect global temperature[4]. Additionally, this position fails to account for the differences in solar activity, that was drastically different from current levels. This position also fails to explain why a comprehensive analysis of carbon dioxide levels over the last 540 millions years concluded that ""Periods of low CO2 coincide with periods of geographically widespread ice."" This is clearly visible in this graph, where the shaded periods are periods of widespread ice. [1] http://www.sciencemag.org... [2] http://www.lavoisier.com.au... [3] http://www.ipcc.ch... R3: Arctic Ice: Arctic ice has increased but this is down to ozone levels over Antarctica having dropped causing stratospheric cooling and increasing winds which lead to more areas of open water that can be frozen[1]. Sea Level: Con essentially ignores all my substantial evidence of record mean global sea levels, and just repeats his old statistics, and after that concedes sea levels are rising, but once again states without any modicum of objectivity, that the evil IPCC were off. This is not relevant. You have conceded my rebuttals - sea levels are rising. [1] http://www.sciencemag.org... R4: The general consensus on this topic is inconclusive. I really don't see it's relevance. To win this debate, Con should have refuted my claims about and climate sensitivity, that is the crux of debate, and he has failed to do so. Con has consistently struggle to provide coherent positions and reliable evidence throughout the debate. Ultimately, the science is conclusive and much of my initial contentions have been dropped."	PRO	88
88	S842a72c1-A9f880acb	Climate Shift	"I understand why you're confused about my argument. You seem to be equally confused about the scientific consensus which was claimed by the following article. http://m.washingtonpost.com... If you read the article again and pay special notice to the update the author added at a later time. 97% of scientists ""who took a position"" support global warming. However the reality is that 67% of published papers on the subject took no position at all. So 33% of scientist are the only ones being considered. That is not a very overwhelming consensus. As a matter of fact that is filtering the results to support a preconceived conclusion. The true debate is about the cause of climate change, as we already know it has changed many times before now."	CON	89
89	S9b3d820f-Ac99f4b6a	Anthropogenic global warming is a threat	"Human water supplies have been dwindling due an increase in population size and contamination As I said global warming would contaminate the water. Theres nothing to dispute here as its not a rebuttal Human water supplies have been dwindling due an increase in population size and contamination. Fire frequency increases are likely due to human carelessness through discarding cigarette butts, or vehicular sparks, etc. This doesnt mean a majority of fires are by this nor that warming temperature isnt a threat If a town is harboring escaped murders and death rates are increasing do we keep harboring murders because people can still die from car crashes? Desert expansion has occurred regardless of human interaction or not, but it is not affected by global warming and is defined as the process by which fertile land becomes desert, typically as a result of drought, deforestation, or inappropriate agriculture Inappropriate agriculture and drought are results of warming temperature as shown in the previous round. I would like to note that my opponent has ignored the merriam-webster definition of pollution and its clarification definition of pollute in R1 in order to bolster his claim that CO2 is a pollutant by introducing the Encyclopedia Brittanica definition instead.  Websters definition isnt very broad. Even then its defined as environmental contamination which I have shown CO2 causes. S. Fred Singer state, ""Carbon dioxide is not a pollutant. On the contrary, it makes crops and forests grow faster. Economic analysis has demonstrated that more CO2 and a warmer climate will raise GNP and therefore average income. CO2 does make plants grow, however it also makes plant defenses go down[1]. Plants cant just grow solely on CO2, as the nitrogen wont keep up with this CO2 causing harmful affects[2] Even if CO2 is good for plant growth this doesnt mean its good or we should have more of it. I am unable to find exactly how the GNP will rise with warmer climate. Even if CO2 isnt labeled as a pollutant this doesnt mean its good or not harmful. As its just semantics. The argument is stated as an example of what a threat is similarly to your usage of ""10 Indicators of a Human fingerprint on Climate Change"". It still has nothing to do with global warming. Its seems like Con is arguing semantics. When ocean waters absorb CO2 they become acidic. That doesn't mean that oceans will become acid. Ocean life is very sensitive to even slight pH level changes. Any drop in pH is an increase in acidity, even in an alkaline environment. The acidity in global surface waters has increased by 30% in the last 200 years. This rate of acidification is projected to the end of the century to accelerate even further with potentially catastrophic impacts to marine ecosystems. Agreed upon by seventy academies of science from around the world, a June 2009 statement from the InterAcademy Panel on International Issues (IAP) said ""The current rate of change is much more rapid than during any event over the last 65 million years. These changes in ocean chemistry are irreversible for many thousands of years, and the biological consequences could last much longer."" - The InterAcademy Panel, June 1, 2009[3] When the surface waters become more acidic, it becomes much more difficult for marine life such as corals and shellfish to form the hard shells necessary for their survival, and coral reefs provide a home for more than 25% of all oceanic species. Tiny creatures called pteropods located at the base of many oceanic food chains can also be seriously impacted. The degradation of these species at the foundation of marine ecosystems could lead to the collapse of these environments with devastating implications to millions of people in the human populations that rely on them. [4] However my opponent does not take into account the possibility of bacterial contamination of seawater that could harm marine life. For example, the bacteria, Vibrio tubiashii, is currently known to kill oysters, but it is unknown if Vibrio tubiashii is fatal to other shellfish. Is this bacteria affecting marine food chains and is this bacteria located in certain places or all over the globe? This fits with the analogy with the murders in the town. Con only touched upon 2 of 5 affects of Global Warming and didn't fulfill his BOP by showing global warming isn't a threat [1]http://www.sciencedaily.com... [2]http://www.nature.com... [3]http://www.interacademies.net... [4]http://www.skepticalscience.com..."	PRO	90
90	S66bd90cb-Ad3ca180b	Mankind Is the Main Cause of Global Warming	"I would like to thank my opponent for engaging with me in this great debate. I appreciate your commitment. I. The Current State of the Galaxy AND the Sun? That Is Very Unusual, Since they Do Not Necessarily Correlate I.i. The Rest of the Solar System ""...it was noted the planet [Mars] was experiencing rapid warming, similar to what the Earth is currently undergoing.... The Martian icecaps are melting at a perilous pace.... ...and that both [warmings on Earth and Mars] can be explained by changes in solar irradiance.""[1] ""Global warming was detected on Jupiter last year, and the warming is apparently behind the formation of a second red spot. Global warming on Neptune's moon Triton has also been noted, with severe atmospheric changes as a result. And even tiny Pluto has experienced moderate warming in recent years, with temperatures rising a full 3.5 degrees. The common denominator in all these cases, the Earth included, is of course the Sun, which is in the middle of an extremely active period at present.""[1] So yes, all of these bodies are indeed warming, and it can all be attributed to increases in solar irradiance. I.ii. The Position of the Milky Way Galaxy ad Cosmic Rays ""With the new results just published in the recognised journal Geophysical Research Letters, scientists have succeeded for the first time in directly observing that the electrically charged particles coming from space and hitting the atmosphere at high speed contribute to creating the aerosols that are the prerequisites for cloud formation.""[2] So yes, there is direct proof. Here is a picture explaining how cosmic rays create cloud formation: [2] And here is the proof for all of this: [3] And finally, I know how much my opponent likes long-period graphs, so I thought I would go back 500 million years: [4] So as shown, cosmic rays create clouds, so fewer cosmic rays create fewer clouds. And, fewer cosmic rays mean more sunspots, which means increased solar activity, which means warming (I will get to this hypothesis later). And, fewer clouds means higher temperatures. And, even if cosmic rays and temperature were diverging, you are ignoring the laws of thermodynamics (I will also get to this later). II. Earthly Causes II.i. Ocean Current Anomalies The graph my opponent presented, when looked at closer, is actually self-defeating. You can see that when the PDO index is negative, temperatures decline, when the PDO index is nil, temperatures remain at the same level, and when the PDO index is positive, temperatures rise. Everyone can see the correlation: [Your Graph+My Paint Work] Why are they diverging? Because there has been more positive PDO this year than negative, meaning that there will be more warming. This cannot be attributed to man because there is no correlation between CO2 levels and the PDO. ""A warm Pacific (positive PDO Index) as we found from 1922 to 1947 and again 1977 to 1997 has been found to be accompanied by more El Ninos, while a cool Pacific more La Ninas. Since El Ninos have been shown to lead to global warming and La Ninas global cooling, this should have an affect on annual mean temperature trends in North America.""[5] Again, the correlation can be better shown in these graphs: The correlation is very strong here, and, ocean currents rise and fall just before temperatures directly, meaning that ocean currents cause direct temperature changes, not the other way around: [5] And again, here. As a side note, the upward linear trend started way before CO2 was added in any substantial quantity (i.e. temperature growth is not accelerating). It correlates perfectly: [6] And finally, I advance this graph again because it shows perfectly my argument. Notice how temperatures start to rise 2-3 years after a PDO cycle change, again indicating that ocean currents cause direct temperature changes: [6] II.ii. Clouds: A Continuation of Point I.ii. This is from an experiment at CERN called CLOUD: ""Scientists found that when shielding was removed and natural cosmic rays allowed to hit the chamber, cloud seeding increased dramatically, and it increased substantially again when additional artificial cosmic rays were added.""[7] ""They [Researchers] put realistic mixtures of the Earth's atmospheric gases into a large-reaction chamber, with ultraviolet light as a stand-in for the sun. When they turned on the UV, microscopic droplets of sulphuric acid-cloud seeds-started floating through the chamber.""[8] ""Carslaw et al. point out that cosmic ray intensity declined by about 15 percent during the last century 'owing to an increase in the solar open magnetic flux by more than a factor of 2.' They further report that 'this 100-year change in intensity is about the same magnitude as the observed change over the last solar cycle.'""[9] So yes, there is direct proof of the inverse relationship between cosmic rays and cloud formation. I already proved this correlation in point I.ii., so I will not repeat it here. III. The 1500-Year Cycle I will show this graph again, and go even further back than my opponent: [9] So indeed, the Medieval Warm Period and the Holocene Climate Maximum were higher than today. And, there is ample evidence that the Medieval Warm Period and Holocene Climate Maximum were hotter than today: ""Chinese temperatures were 2 to 3 degrees C higher than present during China's climate optimum based on pollen data and the souther limits of permafrost."" ""The Mediterranean region, including the coast of North Africa, got more rainfall during the Medieval Warming period than it does in our time."" ""...during the Medieval Warming... . Temperatures may have been as much as 2.5 degrees C warmer [than today] due to a southward shift of the climate belts.""[8] The Medieval Warm Period and the Holocene Climate Maximum were clearly higher in all areas. Here are some graphs showing this: China: [8] South Africa: [8] As shown, again, the Medieval Warm Period was a lot higher in temperature than today, which was eclipsed [MWP] by the Holocene Climate Maximum. [10] So, today's warming is clearly not unprecedented. ""These are the Medieval Warm Period, which is well known, but also a period during the toga-wearing Roman times when temperatures were apparently 1 deg C warmer than now.""[11] This is backed up by tree ring research. ""Indirect evidence suggests that the average temperature was as much as 1.5 degrees Celsius warmer than today.""[12] So why this unprecedented warming in your graphs? Because it is scaled badly. It has only gone up 1 degree Celsius. Explain all of the evidence I have. IV. The Sun This is wrong for one reason: thermodynamics. The sun's activity level is so high that even when it stabilizes, there is still going to be an increase in temperatures. Notice temoerature increases are leveling off as the sun's activity decreases. Still, even if that wasn't true, there is a lag between the lines. The lag is that the sun is 15 years ahead of the temperature. The temperature decrease is just starting. The lag: [8] Sources: [1]: http://www.dailytech.com... [2]: http://wattsupwiththat.com... [3]: http://climatereview.net... [4]: http://members.shaw.ca... [5]: http://wattsupwiththat.com... [6]: http://www.climate-skeptic.com... [7]: http://www.forbes.com... [8]: Singer, S. Fred, and Dennis T. Avery: ""Unstoppable Global Warming: Every 1,500 Years."" [9]: MacRae, Paul: ""Alarm: Global Warming-- Facts versus Fears."" [10]: http://tucsoncitizen.com... [11]: http://www.dailymail.co.uk... [12]: http://www.thefreemanonline.org..."	CON	91
91	S8006a72b-A508eeca9	Global Warming is Man-Made	"==Clarification== I will be arguing that mankind IS the cause of global warming, my opponent will be arguing that mankind is NOT the main driver of modern climate change. My opponent, therefore, is arguing that the theory of anthropogenic climate change is incorrect. This is pretty straightforward. Abbreviations which might be used: AGW -- Anthropogenic global warming CR -- cosmic ray[s] TSI -- Total solar irradiation MWP -- Medieval Warm Period SSN -- Sun spot number PDO -- Pacific Decadal Oscillation LIA -- Little ice age ==Definitions== Global warming: The average increase in temperatures since the late 19th century. Man-Made: The literal definition is fairly obvious. In terms of this debate, man-made factors to climate change would be the emission of greenhouse gasses. Or, as the IPCC would describe man-made forcing, ""changes in the concentrations of radiatively active species (e.g., CO2, aerosols)"" [1]. Definitions are pretty common knowledge. Please, no trolling. ==Rules== 1. As stated above, no trolling 2. All arguments should be visible in the debate. However, sources can be posted on an external link. 3. A forfeit is a concession. If you PM me before you forfeit with a legitimate reason, I will discard this rule and ask voters to vote a tie. 4. The structure, rules, or definitions cannot be changed after you accept the debate (no semantics). However, if you wish to change the rules, or something else, for clarity, ask in the comments. 5. BOP is split evenly! ==Structure== R1: Acceptance R2: Present case. NO REBUTTALS R3: Rebuttals R4: Rebuttals and conclusion --> I have made this debate impossible to accept. I will directly challenge the person who is willing to accept this debate. Good luck! 1. http://www.grida.no..."	PRO	92
92	Se4d5d288-Ad2e53b68	Global Warming is Largely Man-Made	"In this debate I'm going to be arguing that Global Warming is anthropogenic. C1: Carbon dioxide causes warming Carbon dioxide has been identified as having 'greenhouse' qualities for over a century[1]. The greenhouse effect occurs when GHGs allow shortwave solar radiation to pass through the atmosphere. This energy is absorbed of the earth, and then radiates this heat as infrared radiation. This is usually referred to as outgoing longwave radiation. This theory is particularly well-explained in this diagram. This means that a with more carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, we should observe lower levels of this longwave radiation escaping into space the the wavelengths carbon dioxide is meant to absorb. This was recorded by the IRIS satellite and later confirmed by the IMG satellite over a 26 year period. The paper concluded that the experiment could be considered ""direct experimental evidence for a significant increase in the Earth's greenhouse effect""[2]. This same experiment has been adapted multiple times in order to measure downward longwave radiation from the ground[3][4]. This empirical evidence is unequivocal. Another way line of empirical reasoning that supports carbon dioxide's effect on the climate is through historic instances of climate change. This paper quantified the equilibrium temperature change in response to radiative forcing change, climate sensitivity, of the pre-anthropogenic eras[5]. The results of this analysis, were consistent with IPCC estimates. A 2 and 4.5C global surface warming in response to doubled carbon dioxide. Just to really nail the coffin, I'll raise one further argument that determines a net positive feedback, in regard to climate sensitivity: modelling estimates. These work by calculating numerical data and predictions based on the physical, chemical and biological properties of its components, their interactions and feedback processes, and accounting for all or some of its known properties. A notable 2002 paper used a fingerprinting approach on modern temperature records and found a range of approximately 1.4 to 7.7C [6]. A later model looked at paleontological data over the past 6 centuries to calculates a range 1.5 to 6.2C [7]. This position is quite literally a platitude in any climate researchers books, since it is so well supported. This will be evident within my scientific consensus contention. [1] http://www.jstor.org... [2] http://www.nature.com... [3] http://www.agu.org... [4] http://www.agu.org... [5] http://www.nature.com... [6] http://www.sciencemag.org... [7] http://www.nature.com... C2: Humans are the source of the vast majority of resultant carbon dioxide This figure shows the estimated balance of carbon dioxide emissions. Despite man made carbon dioxide emissions being comparatively smaller than natural emissions, the real driving force of climate change is the net quantity of carbon dioxide released, since most natural carbon emissions are absorbed[1]. Because of this, atmospheric carbon dioxide is at the highest levels in approximately 15 to 20 million years[2]. Many skeptics claim that historically, carbon dioxide levels have been much lower, particularly around 500-600 million years ago[3]. But the carbon dioxide level is not the only factor that affect global temperature[4]. Additionally, this position fails to account for the differences in solar activity, that was drastically different from current levels. This position also fails to explain why a comprehensive analysis of carbon dioxide levels over the last 540 millions years concluded that ""Periods of low CO2 coincide with periods of geographically widespread ice."" This is clearly visible in this graph, where the shaded periods are periods of widespread ice. Many prominent climate science papers have argued that, if it were not for Natural contributions cooling the climate, we would be, in fact, a little hotter. Net human and natural percent contributions to the observed global surface warming over the past 50-65 years according to [6] (T00, dark blue), [7] (M04, red), [8] (S07, light green), [9] (LR08, purple), [10] (HK11, light blue), [11] (G12, orange), [12] (WS12, dark green), and [13] (J13, pink). [1] http://www.ipcc.ch... [2] http://www.sciencemag.org... [3] http://www.lavoisier.com.au... [4] http://www.ipcc.ch... [5] http://droyer.web.wesleyan.edu...(GCA).pdf [6] http://articles.adsabs.harvard.edu... [7] http://journals.ametsoc.org... [8] http://journals.ametsoc.org... [9] http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu... [10] https://thingsbreak.files.wordpress.com... [11] https://thingsbreak.files.wordpress.com... [12] http://link.springer.com... [13] http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com... C3: There is a widespread, comprehensive scientific consensus The contentions I have argued are not unfounded, flawed or bogus. In fact, they are so convincing that there exists a well-established scientific consensus. A recent survey of 12,000 climate science papers that expressed a position on the cause of global warming found that 97% of them agreed that anthropogenic global warming is occurring[1]. The same survey found a historic strengthening of the Pro-AGW consensus since 1990. Another survey of 908 randomly selected climate scientists with more than 20 peer-reviewed publications settled upon a similar figure: ""97% of self-identified actively publishing climate scientists agree with the tenets of anthropogenic climate change""[2]. My opponent might argue that the majority of papers expressed no position, therefore leaving room for a much weaker scientific consensus. This would fail to account, however, for the fact that the vast majority of papers included had already accepted AGW as a premise. Oreskes predicts this result, arguing that, ""Scientists generally focus their discussions on questions that are still disputed or unanswered rather than on matters about which everyone agrees""[3]. [1] http://iopscience.iop.org... [2] http://www.pnas.org... [3] https://www.lpl.arizona.edu... Conclusion I have shown that the climate is sensitive to increased levels of carbon dioxide, and that humans are the source of it. These positions are so well supported that an establish scientific consensus exists. Over to you, Con!"	PRO	93
93	Sc09112b2-Aafb3aabc	Humanity is the main cause of global warming.	"First of all I would like to apologise for themy forfeiture, as my internet connection was not available for a few days. I hope that voters disregard the forfeit. My opening statements. 1) Humanity IS the main cause of global warming.The IPCC Report of 2015 states: Its extremely likely that more than half of the observed increase in global average surface temperature from 1951 to 2010 wascaused by the anthropogenic increase in GHG concentrations and other anthropogenic forcings together. The best estimate of the human-induced contribution to warming is similar to the observed warming over this period . Anthro-pogenic forcings have likely made a substantial contribution to surface temperature increases since the mid-20th century over every continental region except Antarctica.. Anthropogenic influences have likely affected the global water cycle since 1960 and contributed to the retreat of glaciers since the 1960s and to the increased surface melting of the Greenland ice sheet since 1993. Anthropogenic influences have very likely contributed to Arctic sea-ice loss since 1979 and have very likely made a substantial contribution to increases in global upper ocean heat content (0""""700 m) and to global mean sea level rise observed since the 1970s.""One of the major contributions to global warming is caused by automobiles, a man made i.e. anthropogenic industry.Other include garbage disposal, factories, burning of leaves , bonfires etc. All of these are anthropogenic causes. 2) One could argue that global warming would take place with or without humanity , but that is not and would not have been the case. Global warming is not JUST the warming of the Earth , it is the EXCESSIVE warming of the Earth's atmosphere. 3) The following site also concludes that mankind is the main contributing factor of global warming. http://timeforchange.org... My Rebuttals 1) Con's source itself says that human activities have contributed substantially to climate change I.e. global warming. 2) I didn't know that global warming consisted of parts. Global warming, simply put is the heating up of the earth, which is mainly caused by greenhouse gases which are emitted by both anthropogenic and natural sources. But the amount is substantially more by man made sources. 3) Another reason given by Con's site is the sun's reflectivity , which can also be altered by human activities. 4) This debate is not whether this is the Little Ice Age or any other age. Its about mankind's impact on global warming. 5) Even if the role of Ice Age is as important as it is alleged, it cannot overtake the impact of civilization and development."	PRO	94
94	Saa3d5131-Ae8247db8	Mankind Is Not the Main Cause of Global Warming	"I would like to thank tylergraham95 for presenting his well-thought out arguments. In this round, I will post arguments against an anthropogenic cause to the recent global warming, and also consider as much as I can of my opponent's argument. Arguments Against Human-Caused Global Warming There are many indicators that point to CO2 emissions not being the cause of the modern global warming. First, CO2 is actually a lagging indicator compared to temperature. As it turns out, temperature may be what's causing CO2 levels to rise. ""The most recent study on this concluded that the results of their tedious but meticulous analysis led them to ultimately conclude that ""the CO2 increase lagged Antarctic deglacial warming by 800 +/- 200 years."" There is also shorter correlations, but again, temperature seems to cause CO2 rise instead of the reverse.[1][2] This graph shows just one of the lags: Second, according to the greenhouse effect, global warming should be starting from the lower atmosphere and moving to the surface (because the CO2 collects in the upper troposphere first). However, this is not happening. ""...satellite and high-altitude balloon data confirm that the lower atmosphere is not trapping lots of additional heat due to higher CO2 concentrations. It is hard to know how fast the Earth's highly variable surface is warming, but it is warming faster than the lower atmosphere where the CO2 is accumulating. This is strong evidence that CO2 is not the primary climate factor.""[3] Here is a graph showing how the surface has warmed more than the troposphere: (The blue line is lower tropospheric temperatures) Third, global warming is not starting at the poles like it should be, by the greenhouse theory. In fact, there has been general, relative cooling: ""If the greenhouse theory were valid, temperatures in the Arctic and the Antarctic would have risen several degrees Celsius since 1940 due to the huge emissions of man-made CO2... Recently, a team led by the University of Chicago's Peter Doran published a paper in Nature saying, 'Although previous reports suggest recent continental warming, our spatial analysis of Antarctic meteorological data demonstrates a net cooling on the Antarctic continent between 1966 and 2000'. The data from 21 Antarctic surface stations show an average continental decline of 0.008 degrees C from 1978 to 1998, and the infrared data from satellites operating since 1979 show a decline of 0.42 degrees C per decade. David W. J. Thompson of Colorado State University and Susan Soloman of the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration also report a cooling trend in the Antarctic interior.""[3][4] To illustrate, here is a picture of the southern hemisphere sea ice anomaly, which shows that southern sea ice is actually increasing: [5] Fourth, current levels of CO2 have very little effect on temperature. The greenhouse effect certainly exists, but it doesn't become linearly stronger with increasing amounts of CO2. CO2's effect on temperature is logarithmic, meaning that each additional increase has a smaller effect on the climate than the last. ""The carbon that is already up in the atmosphere absorbs most of the light it can. CO2 only soaks up its favorite wavelengths of light and it's close to its saturation point. It manages to grab a bit more light from wavelengths that are close to its favorite bands but it can't do much more, because there are not many left-over photons at the right wavelengths."" This has to do with how CO2's absorption spectrum overlaps with water vapor's.[1][6][7] This chart shows approximately the effect that each additional increment of CO2 increase has on temperature: Note how the pre-industrial to modern level increase has had less than a 0.2 C increase in temperature. Fifth and most importantly, the predicted ""hot-spot"" 10 miles above the tropics that would be a signature of CO2-induced global warming is absent. ""The computer models show that greenhouse warming will cause a hot-spot at an altitude between 8 and 12 km over the tropics between 30 N and 30 S. The temperature at this hot-spot is projected to increase at a rate of two to three times faster than at the surface. However, the Hadley Centre's real-world plot of radiosonde temperature observations shown below does not show the projected CO2 induced global warming hot-spot at all. The predicted hot-spot is entirely absent from the observational record. This shows that atmosphere warming theory programmed into climate models are wrong.""[1] Here is the plot of predicted temperature changes due to CO2: However, here is the actual observed temperature changes: The hot spot is completely missing, which is pretty much a knockout blow to the anthropogenic global warming theory. However, the correlation isn't even there. See the below graph: In case the graph's methodology is questioned, consider this: The Carboniferous Period and the Ordovician Period were the only geological periods during the Paleozoic Era when global temperatures were as low as they are today. To the consternation of global warming proponents, the Late Ordovician Period was also an Ice Age while at the same time CO2 concentrations then were nearly 12 times higher than today-- 4400 ppm. According to greenhouse theory, Earth should have been exceedingly hot. Instead, global temperatures were no warmer than today. Clearly, other factors besides atmospheric carbon influence earth temperatures and global warming.[8] Surely these periods should have been warmer. Surely some other factor did not outweigh CO2 by that much. Even climate sensitivity cannot account for something as drastic as that. Further, CO2 concentrations have been much higher - as much as 7000 ppm in the Cambrian period. I'm not going to argue that humans have not caused the CO2 increase, but it kind of shows how an increase of 100 ppm is rather insignificant. Even if the graph is analyzed, the correlation just isn't there. Even so, again, CO2 seems to lag temperature changes anyway. As for humidity, it is, in fact, decreasing. This shows that the actual water vapor content in the upper troposphere has declined by 13.7% (best fit line) from 1948 to 2012 at the 400 mb pressure level. The climate models predict that humidity will increase in the upper troposphere, but the data shows a large decrease; just where water vapor changes have the greatest effect on global temperatures.[1] This graph shows this: The two feedbacks, water vapor feedback and cloud feedback, are weak. The fact that humidity is decreasing negates the former. However, even if the humidity were increasing, more lower level clouds would form, which block sunlight from reaching the Earth, essentially negating the warming effect of the water vapor. Further, while higher numbers of cirrus clouds (which supposedly would increase in the scenario) cause warming, what has actually been found was that cirrus clouds were decreasing in number. What we found in month-to-month fluctuations of the tropical climate system was a strongly negative feedback. As the tropical atmosphere warms, cirrus clouds decrease. That allows more infrared heat to escape from the atmosphere into outer space...""it would reduce estimates of future warming by over 75 percent.[1][9][10] Finally, global warming is not happening unbelievably fast. Temperature changes recorded in the GISP2 ice core ... show that the global warming experienced during the past century pales into insignificance when compared to the magnitude of profound climate reversals over the past 25,000 years. In addition, small temperature changes of up to a degree or so, similar to those observed in the 20th century record, occur persistently throughout the ancient climate record.[1][11] This graph shows this: It doesn't look different than all the rest of the warmings. It even looks rather moderate. The Consensus The problem with any consensus argument, no matter how strong, is that science does not work by consensus. Michael Crichton has said, Consensus is the business of politics. Science, on the contrary, requires only one investigator who happens to be right, which means that he or she has results that are verifiable by reference to the real world. In science consensus is irrelevant. What is relevant is reproducible results. The greatest scientists in history are great precisely because they broke with the consensus.[1] There have been many false consensuses in history. Heliocentrism, evolution, the big bang theory, continental drift, and even climate change itself used to be ridiculed by the majority of scientists. There's no reason why this consensus should be believed above all of the other false ones. Even so, the consensus is based off of a misrepresentation of the data, and a selective look at studies. Over 31,000 scientists (with at least a Bachelors' degree in relevant fields, and over 9000 PhDs) have signed a petition saying that global warming is not anthropogenic. Only 41 out of the 11,944 published climate papers Cook examined explicitly stated that Man caused most of the warming since 1950. Cook himself had flagged just 64 papers as explicitly supporting that consensus, but 23 of the 64 had not in fact supported it. A book I own (but unfortunately don't have access to at this moment) cites over 500 studies that don't believe in the whole global warming edifice, showing various inconsistencies in the hockey stick graph (i.e. the 1500-year cycle), that the sun causes global warming, and that CO2 cannot be causing global warming, other things.[3][12][13][14] Conclusion There are many arguments against the anthropogenic global warming theory, and there are many problems with the assumptions it makes. The consensus is based off of a false understanding of how scientific hypotheses are supported, and isn't even true anyway. Overall, the anthropogenic global warming theory does not hold water against its own assumptions and predictions. Sources Sources in comments."	PRO	95
95	Sde92ac8b-A6cedeef1	Anthropogenic Climate Change Exists	"""NASA data, which I cited in [6], shows there has been no global warming for 17 years."" So how do we have two competing sources for what should be the same information? PRO [5] - IPCC CON [6] - NASA? If we look closely, CON's [6] doesn't actually reference NASA, it references wattsupwiththat.com. The wattsupwiththat article uses RSS data, not NASA data. RSS, or Remote Sensing Systems, does not measure temperatures using a thermometer, it takes readings of microwaves, as explained on its homepage http://www.remss.com...; The data demonstrates that microwaves are not ""net heating"" the earth, but CON and the wattsupwiththat article argue that the earth itself is not being warmed. When measured by thermometers throughout the globe, IPCC and NASA sources have shown that the earth clearly is being warmed. CON's [6] is a particularly ironic source in the context of this debate, during which CON has advocated sunspots as an alternative temperature explanation to CO2. CON argues that ""decadal average"" means that the meaning of ""anomaly"" is reset every decade. The IPCC actually addressed this concern by setting every decadal average relative to the same constant (in this case, ""Anomalies are relative to the mean of 19611990.""[7]). ""My primary reference for the claim that that IPCC models cannot explain the 17 year lack of global warming is Tinsdale's book Climate Models Fail [7]."" - CON The existence of a book title is not an argued debate point. If CON has read Tisdale's book, he should be able to explain and present what he learned in this debate. Otherwise, I should be having this debate with Bob Tisdale. ""Tinsdale provides a book length comparison of IPCC model results showing that what actually happened in climate was outside of the error band of model predictions."" - CON Which model predictions do CON and Tisdale speak of? Because when the IPCC compared model predictions to observations, the temperature observations were outside the 'natural forcings' band of model predictions, and well withing the 'natural and anthropogenic forcings' band of model predictions. This was part of what I presented in round 4. ""Tinsdale also referenced the Mauritsen paper, which I linked in [7]"" - CON CON [7] references Tinsdale, not Mauritsen. ""Temperature was supposed to rise sharply after 2000, as the figure shows, but it did not. Models proved wrong cannot be relied upon for future predictions."" Perhaps CON missed this: the blue shading is the natural, absence-of-man prediction; the pink shading is the natural + anthropogenic predictions; and the black line is the reading taken by the thermometers. The black line is consistent with the blue shading for the antarctic region, seems indecisive for the Southern Ocean, and correllates with the pink shading for the Arctic, North America, Europe, Asia, the North Pacific, the North Atlantic, Africa, the South Pacific, South America, the South Atlantic, the Indian Ocean, Australia, and Antarctica. ""Pro's initial contention was that vanishing Arctic sea ice proves that CO2 dominates climate."" - CON PRO's initial contention was actually that temperature anomalies correspond to a rise in CO2 as predicted by the greenhouse effect, and demonstrated by sea ice temperature, sea ice mass, climate temperature, ocean temperature, and ocean PH. ""Correlation does not prove causation."" - CON PRO [3] http://climate.nasa.gov...; /> 20th century physics consisted of bombarding particles into each other and measuring the deviation of their paths. This was well-tested far beyond being a correlation argument, to the point that physicists predict photonic behavior with laser precision (literally). It is by this mechanism that greenhouse theory exists. It's not a correlation argument, it mathematically calculates that visible photons have no trouble passing through the earth's atmosphere to warm the surface, but upon bouncing back upwards and losing energy (increasing wavelength), are prone to be deflected back at the earth by greenhouse gases. This re-warms the earth. ""Global warming is global, so it cannot be that Arctic ice measures warming but Antarctic ice does not."" - CON They both measure warming, but remember - it's global, so we cannot use Antarctic ice to ignore temperature observations from the Arctic, North America, Europe, Asia, the North Pacific, the North Atlantic, Africa, the South Pacific, South America, the South Atlantic, the Indian Ocean, Australia, and - yes - even the temperature readings of the Antarctic (as I pointed out in round 3, ice and temperature cannot have a linear relationship except at temperatures near freezing point - this is why 'absorption of energy' is more relevant than short term temperature). ""In the last round, Pro changed his position and argued that total ice is important and not sea ice"" - CON I argued that deuterium levels from the last ten thousand years were less relevant than energy readings from the last century. CON's narrative of my position is unrecognizable to me, so my most objective route at this point is to request of voters that they actually find the ""PRO"" arguments that correlate with the ""CON"" narrative before either agreeing or disagreeing with it - and vice versa. ""total ice has been decreasing since the early 1800s, well before any claim of anthropogenic warming."" - CON Deforestation has actually increased net CO2 emissions since before 1750 [9], http://zfacts.com...; /> but in negotiating this debate, CON chose ""temperature anomalies from 1900 to 2200 are / will be predominantly anthropogenic"" from a number of other possible Anthropogenic Climate Change Exists subtopics, so we'll have to save that discussion for another day. As I have explained at least three times in this debate, ice represents two out of seven continents to measure, and as CON has explained, this is a discussion about global temperature. ""Pro claimed that melting land ice in Antarctica caused the increase in sea ice."" - CON I discussed three measurements - temperature, volume, and area. These were ALL in regards to land ice in Antarctica. PRO Round 3: Both Arctic and Antarctic temperatures are supposed to be far below freezing, and neither will commence a serious level of shrinking until they reach the melting temperature of water. As the top of the ice caps melt, the water runs down and is cooled by the ice below, slightly reducing or maintaining the total mass of the ice while possibly increasing the total area. However, it also increases the average temperatures of the Antarctic and Arctic. ""Future CO2 levels are unknown"" - CON Solar, volcanic, botanic, and other alleged hidden variables in century-measured climate change would have to accelerate hundreds of times over in the next two centuries if anthropogenic CO2 is to become a 'secondary' driver of climate anomalies. This can even be deduced from CON's use of geological data, which covers up to 600 million years at a time. Current physical predictions indicate that anthropogenic global warming will be steady and lingering for several centuries, and statistically comprehensive climate data corresponds to this theory. 9. http://zfacts.com..."	PRO	96
96	S9b3d820f-A2a934c45	Anthropogenic global warming is a threat	"Definitions Anthropogenic an""thro""po""gen""ic/anTHrpjenik/ Adjective: (chiefly of environmental pollution and pollutants) Originating in human activity. Global warming an increase in the earth's atmospheric and oceanic temperatures widely predicted to occur due to an increase in the greenhouse effect resulting especially from pollution 3 days to post 4 rounds 8000 Characters No insulting Start argument in first round"	PRO	97
97	Saac88cec-A361d86c6	Global temperatures have always been changing despite Co2 increases	 The Earths climate is a complex and dynamic system that is subject to a multitude of different forcings on many different timescales. The fact that the climate can change and has changed independently of carbon dioxide does not mean that carbon dioxide cannot change the climate. It simply means that some other force, be it an increase in solar output, a change in the planets albedo, etc., has overwhelmed the forcing signal from carbon dioxide.  In 1991, for example, after the eruption of Mount Pinatubo, there was a sharp drop in global temperature following the massive outpouring of ash from the volcano. This sudden increase in air born particulate matter briefly overwhelmed many other forcing factors and drove the temperature down by several degrees until the ash settled out of the atmosphere. This is just one of many examples of a short term forcing managing to overwhelm a longer term forcing, such as an enhanced greenhouse effect.  Global temperatures have often changed in parallel with CO2 increases over the Earths history. We know this from the fossil record and measures of trapped gas in the ice caps. We know that CO2 is a greenhouse gas. So, even if the CO2 does not come exclusively from human emissions (i.e. not anthropogenic) we are currently experiencing an increase in it and this is linked to climate change. At least SOME of the increase can be attributed to human activities either directly or indirectly (Burning of fossil fuels is direct. Deforestation is less direct. Etc.).	CON	98
98	S66bd9128-Ad28221d5	Mankind Is the Main Cause of Global Warming	"I would like to thank JonMilne for this great debate. I. The Sun My opponent is misrepresenting the evidence when he says that solar activity has dropped while temperatures have increased. As this article explains: ""The cycles in the late 20th [century] were short, ~10 years, and high compared to the long term average of ~40 SSN. The minima between them were short too. So although they did reduce in absolute amplitude after the '50s, they made up for it by kicking out more energy more of the time.""[1][2] Here is a graph showing sunspot activity over the last 1000 years: [3] Notice how sunspots were more numerous during the Medieval Warm Period (MWP), less numerous during the Little Ice Age (LIA), and another ""hockey stick"" forms at the start of the 20th century. What a coincidence. A better way to look at the solar influence on climate is to look at a new statistic. Between raw solar activity (solar irradiance) and temperature, temperature lags about 7.5-10 years behind solar irradiance because of the heat capacity of the oceans. A better representation of the sun/temperature correlation is the length of the solar cycle. ""This new parameter not only indicated a remarkably high correlation coefficient between solar activity and temperature (on the order of 0.95), but it also eliminated the problem of the 7-year lag encountered by Reid.""[4][5][6] This is a close-up of the above graph: [6] Notice how solar activity falls around 1990, which, after 7.5-10 years (1999 to be exact) is manifested in a slight temperature drop. Further, here is a graph showing solar irradiance itself compared to temperature: [9] While here is temperature compared with sunspot cycle length: [10] The correlation coefficent increases from 0.57 to 0.95, which are both greater than CO2's correlation of 0.44 (0 is no correlation, 1 is total correlation). When looking at all of how the sun affects the climate: ""For example, the authors of a paper by NASA's JPL remark '...has compared the minimum aa [index of geomagnetic activity] values with the Earth's surface temperature record and found a correlation of 0.95 between the two data sets starting in 1885. The solar irradiance [solar activity] proxy developed from the aa minima continues to track the Earth's surface temperature until the present.'""[7][8] In other words, using the better formulation produces an almost perfect correlation between solar activity and temperature. ""If the Scafetta and West analysis used the uncontaminated satellite data since 1980, the results would show that the Sun has contributed at least 75% of the global warming of the last century.""""In particular, a quasi-60-year large cycle is quite evident since 1650 in all climate and astronomical records herein studied ... The existence of a natural 60-year cyclical modulation of the global surface temperature induced by astronomical mechanisms, by alone, would imply that at least 60 to 70% of the warming observed since 1970 has been naturally induced.""[6][11][12] II. Extraterrestrial Bodies While yes, that particular study focused on the south pole of Mars, the whole planet is indeed warming: ""A recent study shows that Mars is warming four times faster than the Earth. Mars is warming due to increased Sun activity, which increases dust storms. The study's authors led by Lori Fenton, a planetary scientist at NASA, says the dust makes the atmosphere absorb more heat causing a positive feedback. Surface air temperatures on Mars increased by 0.65 C (1.17 F) from the 1970s to the 1990s.""[6] Here is a list of just some of the solar system's reactions to increased solar activity: Sun - Recent Activity Highest in 8000 Years [meaning it's not just the 11-year cycle] and magnetic field has decreased in size by 25% 300% increase in galactic dust entering solar system Mercury - magnetosphere experiencing significant increases Venus - 2500% Increase in Green Glow Mars - Rapid Appearance of Clouds, Ozone and Up to 50% Erosion of Ice Features in one year alone Jupiter - Plasma Torus increasing and Jupiter's Disappearance of White Ovals since 1997, recent increase in storms Io - ""observing same changes -"" 200% Increase in Density of Plasma Torus and Ionosphere 1000% Higher Europa - Much Brighter Than Expected Ganymede - 200% brighter Saturn's - Plasma Torus 1000% Denser andAurora First Seen in polar regions in recent years Uranus - featureless in 1996, now exhibiting huge storms since 1999 and markedly brighter in 2004 than in 1999 Neptune - 40% Brighter, Near Infrared Range 1996 - 2002 Triton - Severe atmospheric changes, warming Pluto - 300% increase in atmospheric pressure.[13] In addition, here is hard evidence that the moon is warming: [14] Further, this shows the comparison between the Sun's, the Earth's, and Neptune's activity: [6] It is clear that not only is Neptune warming, it is doing so in the same fashion as the Earth's temperature and the Sun's activity, indicating a correlation between the events that is not caused by CO2 III. Other Arguments First, my opponent claims that tropospheric temperatures have not decreased. ""However, since January 2002, the temperatures have been declining at 0.16 C/decade for UAH and 0.24 C/decade for the RSS data."" This graph shows two analyses of Microwave Sounding Unit (MSU) satellite temperature measurement data (which is very reliable, compared to surface thermometers) of the troposphere over the tropics from 20 degrees North to 20 degrees South: [6] Second, my opponent claims that the oceans aren't cooling. However, ""Two separate studies through NASA confirm that since 2003, the world's oceans have been losing heat.""[15] Also, the PDO graph in R2 confirms this, as the PDO is going into a cool cycle. Third, my opponent claims that the hockey stick is reliable. I touched on this more in R3, but I will add this: ""They used a computer model to draw the graph from the data, but two Canadians [Ross McKitrick and Stephen McIntyre] later found that the model almost always drew hockey-sticks even if they fed in random, electronic ""red noise"" because it used a faulty algorithm."" The MBH 1998 report was never properly peer reviewed before the IPCC used it in their publications.""[6][16] Conclusion The AGW theory makes several incorrect predictions, and the Earth's warming correlates with solar actiivty, not CO2. Sources http://tny.cz..."	CON	99
99	S39f3ff96-A9de43c62	Global warming is likely (and mostly) anthropogenic	Correlation CON essentially says a robust correlation does not increase the chance for causation, only the relationship. However, for this correlation to be robust is has to precede the warming (or, in others, amplify them). In this debate I have not said CO2 is the only factor in climate change, rather it is the largest factor in modern climate change. In past cycles, CO2 has often played a secondary role, however amplifying warming significantlyand in other cycles it may have even been a predominant factor. My opponent ignores the study by Shakun, which found that CO2 preceded the warming at the end of the ice age. So, assuming CO2 still plays a secondary role, all Co2 needs to do is precede modern warming to show causation. Because if it is an amplifier, if it precedes now it likely plays a significant role. So, since CO2 has preceded modern temperature (and some older temperatures) [1]. My opponents second claim is from a source that denies the greenhouse effecteven Anthony Watts has responded to their literature and claims that they are misrepresenting science. The Press release by my opponents source assumes the atmosphere (upper and lower) work the same. Of course the upper atmosphere cools the planet by reflecting the suns rays, if it didnt we would be dead [2]. The upper atmosphere cooling actually proves man-made climate change. The upper atmosphere has cooled, as shown by satellites, and this has been predicted by modelsand the cooling is because of the lower atmosphere greenhouse effect [3]. We can also determine the power of CO2 from outgoing radiation measurements. A 2004 study has found that outgoing radiation has been decreasing due to the greenhouse effect [4]. These studies have been cited throughout the debate. Skeptic Roy Spencer has even supported the CO2 greenhouse effect [5], though he thinks the effect is minimized via feedbacks (discussed R2). 2. Correlation strength My opponents graphs rely upon data from Joseph DAleo. His study is also flawed in that it included data from pre-1970s. The IPCC and others have argued Co2 played a large role, but not a near-100% role, in that time period. It merely dilutes CO2s near-100% role after that date. Further, it includes the cooling between 1950-60. This period still had a strong CO2 effect why did it cool? Aerosols cooled the climate and temporarily override the greenhouse effect of the CO2 increase [6]. Even if we add the beginning part, the middle cooling is responsible for the low correlation. This would be easily fixed if the cooling was accounted for by aerosols. And, if we add that in, it warms in that period. The PDO, too, has seen little change and has cooled since the 1980s [15] I find a bigger problem: the study used local US data versus global CO2 data. The fact he didnt use global data for both obfuscates the results and renders them useless. A study by Amman et al. 2003 finds when we compare the Keeling curve to GLOBAL temperature, we get an excellent correlation [7]. 3. Ocean levels To say that Co2 levels are not unprecedented is absolutely false. My opponent cites data from millions years ago. If temperature is causing the increase in CO2, and not vice versa, to obtain the CO2 level of 100 million years ago would have to mean unprecedented warming. This is in direct contradiction to my opponents later argument. If he says that we are 100 ppm above 2 million years ago, it means we have to be at the same temperature to meet that CO2 level (it was hotter then) if we say it is all natural. This forces him into contradiction. Human CO2 is identifiable to natural CO2. Studies have shown most of this CO2 is from fossil fuels [8]. To say humans are only a tiny fraction of the atmosphere is false. Before the industrial revolution, the CO2 content in the air remained quite steady for thousands of years. Natural CO2 is not static, however. It is generated by natural processes, and absorbed by others.  But consider what happens when more CO2 is released from outside of the natural carbon cycle  by burning fossil fuels. Although our output of 29 gigatons of CO2 is tiny compared to the 750 gigatons moving through the carbon cycle each year, it adds up because the land and ocean cannot absorb all of the extra CO2. About 40% of this additional CO2 is absorbed. The rest remains in the atmosphere, and as a consequence, atmospheric CO2 is at its highest level in 15 to 20 million years.[9] My opponent misrepresents his source on CO2 lag. It says until now the most comprehensive records to date on a major change in Earths climate came from the EPICA Dome C ice core on the Antarctic Plateau. In other words, the data my opponent cited is old school. The newer studies drastically reduce the lag to less 200 years and use less flawed ice core data [10]. The reduced lag actually shows that CO2 could have been a driver in past climate [11]. 4. Past Climate I did present evidencethe fact I cited the whole paragraph I thought was noticeable. Although regionally the MWP was warmer, specifically in the Atlantic, global temperatures refute this conclusion and find that the MWP was cooler than today [12]. A study by Kellerhals et al. finds that South American temperatures rose, but not to the levels of modern day warming [13]. The MWP can be found in regions like my opponent pointed out, but the data shows that global temperatures were cooler in the MWP [12]. 5. The sun Closer examination of cons study yields this result, Although the inferred increase of solar irradiance in 24 years, about 0.1 percent, is not enough to cause notable climate change, the trend would be important if maintained for a century or more[14]. It will be important in the future, but has not been important as of recently. The study my opponent cited refutes his sun-climate link for the 20th and 21st century. CONCLUSION His case, although he claims refutes mine, has been torn down with the facts. My opponent has been unable to de-link CO2 with past climate and modern climate, show natural cause, and his outright opposition to the greenhouse effect is unscientific. Even skeptic scientists agree that CO2 has some warming potential. 1. http://tinyurl.com...; 2. http://tinyurl.com...; 3. http://tinyurl.com...; 4. http://tinyurl.com...; 5. http://tinyurl.com...; 6. http://tinyurl.com... 7. http://tinyurl.com...; 8. http://tinyurl.com...; 9. http://tinyurl.com...; 10. http://tinyurl.com...; 11. http://tinyurl.com...; 12. http://tinyurl.com...; 13. http://tinyurl.com... 14. http://tinyurl.com...; 15. http://tinyurl.com...	PRO	100
100	S70cb061-A612a4167	Man-Made global warming exists* and poses a serious threat to humanity.	Con's case: Premise 1: Global Warming Potential What few people realize about things like Green House Gas is that they are not all born equal. For example, Carbon Dioxide has a Global Warming Potential of 1. Global Warming Potential is the total effect a single amount of gas has on Global Warming. The list is has follows: (1) Carbon Dioxide -- 1 Methane -- 21 Nitrous Oxide -- 298-310 CFC's -- Various Water Vapor -- 0.25 With this in mind, we move on. 1) http://cdiac.ornl.gov... Argument I: The Effects of Man-Made Carbon Dioxide. Human's release approximately 35 gigatons of Carbon Dioxide into the atmosphere each year (2). Only 4.3% of the 812 gigatons released total every year. Even at only 4.3% of total CO2 emmissions, our effect over it, is mild at most. Carbon Dioxide is very weak, as opposed to common census, having only a Global Warming Potential of 1. In total, Carbon Dioxide makes up a grand total of 3.618% of the total Gas House Effect (3). Water vapor makes up 95% of the total Greenhouse Effect. Carbon Dioxide's number increased from 295 ppm to 400 ppm, an increase of 105 ppm. 1 Gigaton of CO2 is worth 2.13 ppm (4), so an increase of 105 ppm would equal 49.29 gigatons. Since 1 gigaton of CO2 is worth 0.004% of total Greenhouse Effect, 49.29 gigatons is worth an additional 0.21% to the Greenhouse Effect, a total temperature increase of 0.15F. That means we are responsible for 10% of total increased warming. Assuming human's did in fact raise the amount of CO2 by 105 ppm, the effect on the climate would be measly. Temperatures would raise only 0.28% since then. People gravely exaggerate to effect of CO2 on the climate. It is the second weakest Greenhouse Gas in the world behind Water Vapor. GAS -- GREENHOUSE EFFECT -- HUMAN EFFECT Water Vapor ------ 95.000% -- 0.001% Carbon Dioxide -- 3.618% ---- 0.117% Methane ------------ 0.360 ------ 0.066% Nitrous oxide ----- 0.950% ---- 0.047% Misc ------------------- 0.072% ---- 0.047% Total ------------------ 100% ------- 0.278% Assuming the increase in the other gases ppm were the same proportionately, we would be responsible for an increase of nearly 0.20F. This leaves 1.33F left that human's are not responsible for. Many people would claim we've caused temperatures to raise enough to evaporate enough water to make up the difference. This would be entirely irrational. At an increase of 0.20F, water wouldn't evaporate much more than it was prior. Thats less of a difference in tempature shift than what we'd see from one minute to the next. The argument assumes 0.20F can heat up the ocean enough to make up such a wide difference. Such an increase from only 0.20F would mean that the ocean would be boiling in the summer (temperatures of 90F and up, an increase of 31.88F from normal temperature). It's a weak and unsustainable excuse. Even at 1.53F, it's not likely. 2) http://volcanoes.usgs.gov... 3) http://www.geocraft.com... 4) http://cdiac.ornl.gov... Argument II: Argument From Nature: Is it entirely possible for nature to be responsible? Of course. Nature has seen worse times then now. CO2 ppm is at 400 right now, but in the Mesozoic period, long before man, it reached 2000-4000 ppm.(5) 7000 ppm in the Cambrian Period. This implies that people aren't needed for absolutely unbelievable increases in ppm. It's entirely possible for nature to do this on it's own. Another issue this brings up is that, at 7000 ppm, 6705 ppm larger than in 1900 (63.8% larger than the 105 ppm increase) the temperatures were 10c higher then than today. Proportionately, temperatures should have been 54.23c higher then than today. This empathizes high little of an impact CO2 has on the global temperature. So what in nature right now could be causing such in increase in temperature? A basic cycle. 5) http://droyer.web.wesleyan.edu...(GCA).pdf Argument III: The Global Warming Cycle: Global Warming activists love mentioning how temperatures are higher now than they were in Human History, forgetting how Human History is only 10,000 years old at most. In the chart above, we see that past warming periods. Take into account that the temperature of today is now above anything on that list, and then look at the past 400,000 years. According to the data, the World has been heating and cooling rapidly for 100's of thousands of years, back past a few million, even. It has been the world's cycle. CO2 ppm has been following along. Right now it's where it should be increasing. CO2 has been raising in recent history (15,000 years) and it's merely continuing to, with or without humans. Temperatures, as well, have been randomly going up and down in the past 15,000 years. Long before industrialization. Of course temperatures are up... We're in the warming cycle. We are actually in the coldest warming cycle in the past 400,000 years, the fact that it isn't warmer is amazing. To assume human's are responsible is more Post Hoc then anything else. Temperatures SHOULD be increasing right now. It's only natural. CO2 is so unimportant, that despite a rapid increase around the 9,000 year period, temperatures have decreased more than increased, and quite on it's own accord. Conclusion: Human's are responsible for very little of the Green House Effect. Our biggest contribution is CO2, which (and my opponent will probably stick to CO2 as his weapon) is very uninfluencial in the overall scheme of things. The increase in CO2 has been going on steadily since over 9,000 years ago. It's nothing new. There is nothing unique about this warming period other than how cold it is. Human's contribution to Global Warming is minuscule, and isn't a threat to human life. Global Warming might be a risk, at most, in time, while not likely... But Man-Made Global Warming is not.	CON	101
101	S842a72e0-A1d511c20	Climate Shift	Actually another survey found only 52 percent of meteroligist believe climate change is man made. Liberal meteroligest where far more likely to believe in climate change. Climate change has slowed even those co2 is increasing. How is this? More co2 was released in the industrial era then now but there was no climate change. The sun was also giving of a lot more light in the 90s and that could have raised the climate. Their is no proof co2 causes the earth to warm. I would remind you that in the 70s, some scientist said that co2 would cause tempature to drop and create a new ice age. I again state that climate models have failed and none of the apociliptic predictions have happened. http://dailycaller.com... http://www.principia-scientific.org... http://www.forbes.com...	CON	102
102	S977ed4bc-Ac8c1faf7	The global warming hockey stick is bad science	"I provided four specific reasons why the global warming hockey stick calculation was bad science: 1. The algorithm makes noise into a hockey stick, 2. A standard PC analysis program does not produce a hockey stick, 3. Tree ring data was misused, and 4. There were errors in filling in missing data. Separately, I provided independent arguments that it was clear that the two chief conclusions the hockey stick was meant to support were false: 5. The MWP and Little Ice are independently confirmed as existing, 6. The hockey stick predicts exponential temperature rise from the late 90's when in fact temperatures have fallen. Every claim I made was supported by a qualified Ph.D. climate scientists with traceable references. Pro never addressed points 2, 4, and 6. Therefore they stand. Pro provides a reference to a Wikipedia article regarding the hockey stick, but he does say what, if anything, the article is supposed to address. Wikipedia is an unattributed source that reflects whatever it is the last person modifying the article wants to say. There is interesting material there, but it's not my job to try to find what it that Con thinks supports his case. Overall, there is as much or more in the article supporting my position than Con's. One controversy poorly treated in the Wikipedia article is worth discussing. The question of whether or not Mann applied the correct procedures in processing the data input to the hockey stick algorithms is definitely a question to be judged by experts in statistics, not by climate scientists. It is purely a mathematical process, there is no knowledge of the physics of the atmosphere required. Moreover, the procedures are extremely difficult. Social scientists, for example, frequently go astray in applying statistical techniques to data. That is why despite Mann's protest that McKitrick was only an ""economist,"" (incorrect, it was statistics) that in fact McKitrick had greater relevant expertise than Mann. The panel brought in by Congress consisted of experts in statistics, not climate. The original reviewers of the Mann hockey stick paper published in the 90s were asked if they had checked the statistical algorithms Mann had used. They replied that they did not, and moreover that they did not feel qualified to do so, since they were climate scientists and not statisticians. The general problem with scientists using statistical algorithms is that there are lots of adjustments possible to correct for inconsistencies and anomalies in the data. This leads scientists to keep didling until they get the answer they expect, then they quit, believing they finally ""got it right."" Con claims that someone has duplicated Mann's results. Yes, indeed, the reference shows that somebody wrote a program that makes hockey sticks. I could too. That doesn't bear upon any of the six issues I raised. Con claims that MM05, a paper written by McKitrick in 2005 was not about math error. That is correct, I did not reference that paper at all. The MM05 paper was about the tree ring data, the third of the six arguments I made. Con asks what the specific problem was. ""Almost all of the ... series selected for overweighting [by Mann] were of a single type and from a single researcher, Donald Graybill. The series were high-altitude bristlecone pine tree-ring chronologies, many of which had been studied by Graybill and Sherwood Idso as possible examples of CO2 fertilization of tree growth, following a similar study by Lamarche et al. on Sheep Mountain. The sites were selected for ""cambial dieback,"" that is, the bark had died around the circumference of the tree. ... They related that the anomalous twentieth century growth was unrelated to the temperature from nearby weather stations."" McKitrick in Michaels, op cit, p 41 In other words, the data was supposed to be a proxy for temperature, but a comparison to measured temperature showed it was invalid. On Mann's realclimate.org website, the overweighting is acknowledged, but defended as a standard practice. Con's only reference for the contention that ""past reconstruction has problems"" is Mann's realclimate.org website, which is essentially a blog supporting global warming crisis. Of course its true that past reconstruction has problems, that's why the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics surveyed 250 separate reconstructions to conclude unambiguously that the MWP and Little Ice Age existed, and therefore the hockey stick is wrong. If there is larger study by a more prestigious organization that shows the contrary, then Con should present it. Con cites Mann's credentials as being a bona fide climate scientist. I agree. All of my sources have credentials every bit as good as Mann's. So therefore some well-credentialed scientist is wrong about this particular issue. That means that we must look at the specific points of contention. I claim that Wikipedia and realclimate.org cannot be viewed with nearly the credibility of M.I.T. or Harvard. ""The IPCC is a UN outfit. I need to know what my opponent means by ""political"" so as not to include himself."" I do not understand why noting that the IPCC is UN organization does anything but support the fact that it is political. That is what the UN does. In any case, the IPCC membership is about two-thirds government functionaries, and about a third are climate scientists. None of the IPCC reports or results are subject to the peer review process. The key IPCC report summary for decision makers is written independently of the technical sections prepared by scientists. The scientists are directed to produce results that support the summary. The final IPCC report is not voted upon by the participating scientists. Many of the scientific contributors object vehemently to the conclusions of the report, but it is nonetheless issued with all their names. As an example, the expert on hurricanes refused to conclude that global warming was the cause of increased hurricane activity. Some one higher up in the organization changed the section without permission to conform to the desired conclusion that global warming was responsible. I don't understand why Con seems to care whether or not I am ""political."" I am happy to be political if that makes Con happy. I am not arguing based upon my own authority. I am citing data and the opinions of qualified experts. Con asserts, ""My opponent does not believe global warming exists."" I will claim authority on the issue of whether or not I believe global warming exists. I do believe that global warming exists, and I have indicated that in my profile on this site ever since I've been using the site. Con states, ""It's pretty obvious my opponent has some, shall we say, questionable source material. Where on Earth is he getting this garbage? Why don't I just debate them?"" This is a curious remark. I cited Michaels (Prof of environmental sciences University of Virginia), McKitrick (Univ. of Guelph), Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics (Harvard Univ, Cambridge MA), and Technology Review (published by M.I.T., Cambridge, MA). I also cited climate data in an article by Jarl R. Ahlbeck, D.Sc. and lecturer at Abo Akademi University, Finland. The McKitrick article provides 42 references to the scientific literature. What makes them Questionable? Is it anything other than that he doesn't agree? Why does Con think unsigned wikipedia articles and a blog are more reliable? The rest of Con's statements are completely irrelevant. I think he doesn't like my attempt to put conditions on the debate, like knowing something about the subject. Obviously my intent was to scare off debaters who aren't serious about the subject, but it's also obviously unenforceable. He should address the subject in comments; it is poor conduct in the debate. The resolution is affirmed."	PRO	103
103	S3b1f9ed6-A167a86e2	Resolved: Man-made Global Warming Exists.	"Rules Round 1 is for definitions by Con while Pro will make her opening arguments. Round 2 Con will make contentions and rebuttles, while Pro Refutes. Round 3 is rebuttles by Pro and Con makes rebuttles and Conclusion. Round 4 Com makes rebuttles and conclusion, Pro will states, ""No round as argeed upon."" If Pro says anything else in the finial round then it's a forfeit of all 7 points. No swearing No trolling man-made- manufactured, created, or constructed by human beings; specifically (http://www.merriam-webster.com...) Global Warming- Global warming is the unusually rapid increase in Earths average surface temperature over the past century primarily due to the greenhouse gases released as people burn fossil fuels"	CON	104
104	Sdc9f0311-A4ae0d2c5	There is no anthropomorphic global warming	Global warming has occurred in the past hundred years. This warming occurred mostly in the first half of the 20th century, counter to the period when there was more co2. Correlation between sunspot activity and temperatures are higher than co2 and temperature.	PRO	105
105	S3b1f9ed6-Af52f6d56	Resolved: Man-made Global Warming Exists.	"Global warming is significantly man man made Here is a general website that debunks anti man made global warming folks, claim by claim http://www.skepticalscience.com... Here is proof that carbon dioxide has nearly doubled and increased exponentially since the industrial revolution http://en.wikipedia.org... Here is a similar graph that shows temperature following a similar fate http://en.wikipedia.org... Here are websites that tie together co2 and temperature, and debunks any claims about why co2 and temperature carbon are not always tightly correlated http://www.skepticalscience.com... http://www.skepticalscience.com... There's no question that temperature and CO2 is correlated. You can see that in the links i provided, historically. http://www.skepticalscience.com... Here is that they are more than just correlated, but tied together http://www.skepticalscience.com... Here is a graph showing the thickness of polar caps melting exponentially http://en.wikipedia.org... Here is a scientific article that refers to the ice caps being doomed http://www.scientificamerican.com... ======================= Warming not caused by volcanoes and the Sun cycles -------------- 'The volcano theorists can't even keep their stories straight. In his book, Limbaugh claims that the 1991 Pinatubo eruption put 1000 times as much chlorine into the atmosphere as industry has ever produced through CFCs; yet on Nightline, Pinatubo is alleged to have produced 570 times the equivalent of one year's worth of CFCs. Both can't be right. It turns out neither are. The figure 570 apparently derives from Ray's book--but she said it was Mount Augustine, an Alaskan volcano that erupted in 1976, that put out 570 times as much chlorine as one year's worth of CFCs. Ray's source is a 1980 Science magazine article--but that piece was actually talking about the chlorine produced by a gigantic eruption that occurred 700,000 years ago in California (Science, 6/11/93).' '--------- I'd also add, that the common sense answer to me is... consider all the smoke stacks out there. Consider all the pollution, places like LA. I'd bet California itself is like a volcano very short period in intervals. doesn't this make the most sense, considering how little and how infrequent volcanoes erupt? ---------- Scientific article saying the sun is only accounting for a third of our warming ------------- QUOTE With respect to global warming, though solar activity has been at relatively high levels during the recent period, the fact that solar activity has been near constant during the last 30 years precludes solar variability from playing a large role in recent warming. It is estimated that the residual effects of the prolonged high solar activity account for between 18 and 36% of warming from 1950 to 1999 ^ Stott, Peter A.; Gareth S. Jones and John F. B. Mitchell (15 December 2003). ""Do Models Underestimate the Solar Contribution to Recent Climate Change"". Journal of Climate 16: 4079-4093. Retrieved on October 5, 2005. ---------------------- Here is a list of organizations that accept anthropogenic global warming as real and scientifically well-supported, and give discussions of the topic at the link: ----------------- * NASA's Goddard Institute of Space Studies (GISS): * National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA): * Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC): * National Academy of Sciences (NAS): * State of the Canadian Cryosphere (SOCC) - * Environmental Protection Agency (EPA): * The Royal Society of the UK (RS) - * American Geophysical Union (AGU): * American Meteorological Society (AMS): * American Institute of Physics (AIP): * National Center for Atmospheric Research (NCAR): * American Meteorological Society (AMS): * Canadian Meteorological and Oceanographic Society (CMOS): ------------------------- So: -We rule out major causes like the sun and earth's rotation -Our north pole just melted completely a few years ago. this is a historic event that doesn't occur very often at all. -If we look at ice levels in polar regions... we can see carbon and darker ice during the industrial revolution... and it's noticeably lighter at the point the clean air act was introduced... this is simply evidence, but tangible evidence that this stuff is in not only the sky but everywhere. -If we look at temperature increases... yes, it shows we are getting hotter. We are setting records at a more frequent basis. -If we look at natural temperature increases... we see we've been increasing for thousands of years. But, we see that it's been accelerating in recent history, particularly the industrial revolution where pollution occurs. This is in reference to the infamous ""hockey stick"" graph. No, we can't deduce from that alone that we're the cause, but we can give it as supporting the fact that there's an accelerated increase, especially at our time. -Studies have been done that show CO2 being a cause of warming. we might squabble about how much warming, but we know it causes some."	PRO	106
106	S70cb061-A39852c54	Man-Made global warming exists* and poses a serious threat to humanity.	"I thank my opponent for his response. Rebuttals The Greenhouse potential of CO2 This is actually an excellent point made by my opponent. There are two problems with it, though. A) Man realeases many other, potent, greenhouse gases. B) Man contributes to global warming in more ways than just producing greenhouse gases. (A) The greenhouse gamut of gases Man produces more than just CO2 grenhouse gases. Man is also directly responsible for CH4 (methane) emissions, N20 (Nitrous Oxide) emissions, and Chlorofluorocarbons (""F"" Gases). Here is a chart depicting the full impact of these gases.  Carbon dioxide (CO2). Accounts for around three-quarters of the warming impact of current human greenhouse-gas emissions. The key source of CO2 is the burning of fossil fuels such as coal, oil and gas, though deforestation is also a very significant contributor.  Methane (CH4). Accounts for around 14% of the impact of current human greenhouse-gas emissions. Key sources include agriculture (especially livestock and rice fields), fossil fuel extraction and the decay of organic waste in landfill sites. Methane doesn't persist in the atmosphere as long as CO2, though its warming effect is much more potent for each gram of gas released.  Nitrous oxide (N2O). Accounts for around 8% of the warming impact of current human greenhouse-gas emissions. Key sources include agriculture (especially nitrogen-fertilised soils and livestock waste) and industrial processes. Nitrous oxide is even more potent per gram than methane.  Fluorinated gases (""F gases""). Account for around 1% of the warming impact of current human greenhouse-gas emissions. Key sources are industrial processes. F-gases are even more potent per gram than nitrous oxide. (1) The emissions for CO2 from man alone may not account for the upward trend, but it is certainly not natural cycles. National Geographic writes, ""Scientists have spent decades figuring out what is causing global warming. They've looked at the natural cycles and events that are known to influence climate. But the amount and pattern of warming that's been measured can't be explained by these factors alone. The only way to explain the pattern is to include the effect of greenhouse gases (GHGs) emitted by humans."" (2) Man produces quite a bit of methane gases as well. Every methane molecule has 20 times the greenhouse potential of CO2 (2). Man actually produces 50-100 million tonnes of methane per year. This is due to the massive increase of two forms of agriculture: Beef and rice. The digestive systems of cows happen to produce a sizeable amount of methane, and rice paddies produce quite a bit as well. (3) To give these combined gases some perspective, imagine that all human gases were measured relative to CO2. Since 1990 alone, we, humanity, have increased our GHG emissions by the equivalent of 6 Gigatons of CO2, a 20% increase. (2) (B) Man contribute to the greenhouse effect both directly, and indirectly. The direct method in which man contributes to the greenhouse effect is through direct emissions of greenhouse gases. The indirect method, though, is limiting the earths ability to curb GHGs presence in our atmosphere. The two most notable effects are deforestation and oceanic pollution. I. Deforestation The most effective way in which the earth curbs the amount of GHGs produced (specifically, CO2) is through the forests of the earth. The earths forests converts CO2 into O2 and glucose, thus reducing the amount of GHGs present in the atmosphere. Deforestation practices, however, have significantly reduced the earths ability to reduce the presence of CO2. ""By most accounts, deforestation in tropical rainforests adds more carbon dioxide to the atmosphere than the sum total of cars and trucks on the worlds roads. According to the World Carfree Network (WCN), cars and trucks account for about 14 percent of global carbon emissions, while most analysts attribute upwards of 15 percent to deforestation."" (4) This results in a much higher quantity of CO2 present in the atmosphere that is a result of mans interference with the environment. II. Pollution of the Ocean The ocean is also a fairly major player in the environment, and GHGs. The ocean naturalyl absorbs GHGs and reduces their concentration. Warming the environment, though, significantly reduces the oceans ability to combat the increase of GHGs. ""Theres an important relationship between the atmosphere and our oceans, which is out of balance due to climate change pollution. As oceans warm, they lose their ability to absorb carbon dioxide, causing them to become 'acidified.'"" (5). Summary Even if CO2 initially has very little effect on the enironvment, we can see that the initial effects can quickly spiral out of control and ""snowball"" into a much more severe effect. Man produces many more GHGs than through simple CO2 emissions. The way in which we cause the greenhouse effect is complex, but almost assuradly the most major cause of modern global warming, as is the scientific census (see Point B, Sub-point 1). Nature and Global Warming/The global warming cycle. Up until about 1950 (where many of my opponents graphs end) the warming period was totally accounted for by natual causes. It wasn't until after then that we began to realize that natual cycles cannot account for modern global warming. Here is a chart illustrating CO2 emissions in PPMs from NASA. As you can see, CO2 emissions are actually much much higher than they have ever been in natural history - 100 PPMs higher than ever. Furthermore, my Point B Subpoint 1 argument shows that the environmental scientific community is in total agreement: Natural cycles simply do not account for modern global warming. The United States Global Change Research Program (which includes the Department of Defense, NASA, National Science Foundation and other government agencies) has said ""global warming is unequivocal and primarily human-induced"" Summary There are countless sources in my R1 argument, and in this argument, that show that the only explanation for the massive upward trend in global average temperatures is that humanity is significantly exacerbating the natural cycle, causing a warming cycle more extreme than any warming cycles in history. I reiterate, Natual Cycles cannot account for modern global warming, and environmental scientists are all in agreement over this point. Via GHG emissions-both directly and indirectly- of all kinds (more than just CO2), man has significantly contributed to the general upward trend of global average temperatures. Sources 1. http://www.theguardian.com... 2. http://environment.nationalgeographic.com...; 3. http://www.ghgonline.org... 4. http://www.scientificamerican.com...; 5. http://www.takepart.com..."	PRO	107
107	S9b3d820f-A1080a625	Anthropogenic global warming is a threat	"I apologize for any perceived rudeness but I am frankly disappointed that my opponent would regurgitate ""10 Indicators of a Human Fingerprint on Climate Change"" as his argument since the source, while accurately stating the existence of global warming is inaccurate in its portrayal of CO2 as the main cause of global warming due to other variables such as water vapor, soot, solar radiation and other green house gases. The source also doesn't explain how global warming is a threat to humankind, nor does it imply global warming to be a threat either. My opponent also follows the EPA designation that CO2 is an air pollutant that directly harms humans. However the contention is false and misleading since CO2 is an end product of all plants and animals in order to breakdown sugars and nutrients. Also CO2 is not designated as a toxic or harmful gas by the Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals standards of the United Nations Economics Commission for Europe in accordance with the guidelines of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development's testing of chemicals. (1)(2) A threat to humanity and the stability of geopolitics is the current hyped up rhetoric between Iran and Israel over Iran's nuclear program which could result in the creation of a nuclear warhead. With Israel threatening military attacks on Iranian nuclear enrichment plants. (3) Another economic threat to the world would be Iran's threat to attempt to blockade the straits of Hormuz if UN sanctions severely cripple its oil economy. (4) An even more obvious threat to international stability is the possibility of the chemical weapons stockpiled in Syria could fall into the hands of terrorist groups as the Syrian Civil War invites third party jihadists on the sides of either the Free Syrian Army or the Syrian Regime. (5) (1) http://en.wikipedia.org... (2)http://en.wikipedia.org... (3) http://www.washingtonpost.com... (4) http://www.upi.com... (5)http://news.yahoo.com..."	CON	108
108	S80500e82-A343d4525	Climate shift	Resolved: Climate Shift is real; Climate shift is influenced by man; Climate shift ought to be a legitimate concern of those who care about the future of humanity. I will take the pro side. The BOP lies on both sides. First round is acceptance only. Second round is construction only.	PRO	109
109	S977ed4bc-A2cf82ffb	The global warming hockey stick is bad science	"The global warming hockey stick is a graph of global temperature over time. It was produced by a scientist named Mann, who first published it in a scientific journal in the mid-nineties. He modified and included it in the 2000 report of the International Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). It is called a hockey stick because it shows very little variation of climate for the past thousand years until the 20th century, when temperatures soared. That makes the graph look like a hockey stick on its side, with the blade upward. The resolution claims that the curve is bogus. ""Bad science"" means that the curve does not correctly depict the climate of the past thousand years, and that the hockey stick was a result of errors in the methods in deriving the curve. This debate is not about whether global warming exists or whether human produced CO2 is causing significant global warming. The debate is not about whether Mann et al deliberately fudged the data. (I think he was honest, and that the errors were a product of the confirmation fallacy.) The debate is solely whether the hockey stick accurately reflects climate data. The IPCC report of 1990 had an entirely different graph of climate history. That graph showed a Medieval Warm Period (MWP), warmer than the present and lasting to about 1300, followed by the Little Ice Age, a period much colder than the present lasting through the early 1800's. Both disappeared in the hockey stick. The graphs are shown here: http://www.john-daly.com... -- scroll down to find the hockey stick. How did they disappear? Scientists, led by Ross McKitrick, a professor at the University of Guelph in Canada, spent enormous effort trying to reconstruct Mann's work to find out. Mann refused to supply his data or the computer program that he used to process the data. Under intense pressure, enough of the data was revealed and enough information about the algorithms was revealed to allow reconstructing and analyzing the methodology. The actual software has never been released. The details of the analysis are provided in full in a thirty page article by scientist Ross McKitrick, ""The Mann et al Northern Hemisphere 'Hockey Stick': A Tale of Due Diligence."" published in the book ""Shattered Consensus"" edited by Patrick Michaels. A good summary by a scientist who believes in human-caused global warming is from the MIT magazine Technology Review: http://technologyreview.com... The basic errors in the hockey stick derivation are: 1. Mann used an algorithm that normalized past data based upon the data of the last 78 years. This algorithm was tested by putting pure noise into the algorithm. Noise is fake data that just bounces around with no trends. When processed through the Mann algorithm, a hockey stick is produced. It makes hockey sticks out of nothing. 2. Mann used a method called ""component analysis"" as part of his method. When the raw climate data is put into a standard off-the-shelf computer program that does component analysis, the MWP and Little Ice Age reappear as they were in the 1990 IPCC report. 3. A variety of different types of data were used as inputs to Mann's analysis. The data are various proxies for temperature, like tree ring growth. Most of the data does not show a hockey stick, but one data set from the rings of trees growing at high altitudes did show a hockey stick. The literature says that high altitude tree data has unusual characteristics and should not be used as a temperature proxy. Mann not only included it, but weighted it 380 times more highly than other data. 4. There were errors in the method of filling in missing data. Mann's line of defense was that he didn't have the time to reveal his data or computer programs, and that no matter what critics did to reconstruct his work, they were not doing it right. Pressure mounted, and ultimately the National Science Foundation was asked to investigate the matter. They came back with an obfuscated report that seemed to confirm the criticisms, but at the same time didn't say the hockey stick was wrong. The matter was finally referred by Congress to a panel of statistical experts experienced in the processing of climate data. They determined unambiguously that the critics were correct, and that the hockey stick was invalid. The IPCC is primarily a political organization, so they felt no obligation to set the record straight. However, even politicians have to worry about saving face. The latest IPCC report covers a variety of analyses of past climate data, including the scientifically verifiable one. Separately, other studies and data has been produced relevant to the hockey stick. Paleoclimatologists have been building climate reconstructions at various points around the globe. These use tree rings, pollen in sediment layers, coral growth and other proxies for temperature. more than 350 such studies have been completed, and they prove beyond doubt that both the MWP and the Little Ice Age not only existed, but were worldwide. By 2003, the Harvard Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics concluded: ""... the 20th century is neither the warmest century nor the century with the most extreme weather of the past 1000 years. The review also confirmed that the Medieval Warm Period of 800 to 1300 A.D. and the Little Ice Age of 1300 to 1900 A.D. were worldwide phenomena not limited to the European and North American"" continents. http://www.cfa.harvard.edu... The hockey stick was used as the basis of claiming that there is a clear trend: temperatures are soaring exponentially, and because it was allegedly unprecedented, we should expect that to continue. So have they continued to soar exponentially since the late 90s? No, actually they have been trending downward since then. http://www.factsandarts.com... So if there is some miracle explanation that says it was correctly derived, we know for certain that using it to predict future climate trends, which was its sole purpose in the IPCC report, is bad science. The resolution is affirmed. **General conditions: (Perhaps I am taking this debate thing too seriously, but I have my own concept of fun.) Do not accept this debate challenge if you are interested in pressing a really creative lawyerly approach, like debating what the meaning of ""is"" is or interpreting the resolution in a way contrary to common sense. Legitimate semantic arguments are fine. If you think the resolution is unclear, ask in the Comments. Do not accept the challenge if you know nothing about the subject and don't plan to research it."	PRO	110
110	S70f48902-Adc9f3794	Mankind Is the Main Cause of Global Warming	"Preface I am and have been a rather staunch supporter of the position that global warming is primarily anthropogenic. The question of the existence of man-made global warming is particularly serious in today's time, and is a highly controversial topic that I have, unfortunately, only debated once. Since I'm relatively free, with no debates going on, I think I shall go on with this debate. You must have completed 1 debate or more in order to accept. There is a minimum required Elo score of 1,500 to vote on this debate. Full Topic Mankind is probably the main cause of global warming in current times. Terms These are the resolutional definitions, all influenced from the Oxford Dictionary of English, the American Heritage Dictionary, and Wikipedia. Mankind - the human race; human beings collectively without reference to sex; humankind. Probably - is likely to take place or be true. Main - chief in size, extent, or importance. Cause - the producer of an effect; a person or thing that acts, happens, or exists in such a way that some specific thing happens as a result. Global Warming - the rise in the average temperature of Earth's atmosphere and oceans since the late 19th century, and its projected continuation. Below are the abbreviations that will likely be used in this debate, and are relevant to this discussion. AGW - anthropogenic global warming CR - cosmic ray(s) TSI - total solar irradiation MWP - Medieval Warm Period RWP - Roman Warm Period SSN - sun-spot number PDO - pacific decadal oscillation LIA - little ice age Rules 1. No forfeits. 2. All arguments must be visible inside this debate. Sources can be within the debate or in an external link. 3. No new arguments in the final round (including new positive arguments, new rebuttals not presented before, and new defenses). 4. Maintain a civil and decorous atmosphere. 5. No trolling. 6. No ""kritiks"" of the topic (i.e. arguments that challenge an assumption in the resolution). 7. My opponent accepts all definitions and waives his/her right to add resolutional definitions. 8. No deconstructional semantics (e.g. ""cause"" means origin, so the beginning of Earth's warming millions of years ago, etc.) 9. The BOP is shared. 10. The first round is for acceptance only. 11. The second round is for arguments only, with no rebuttals; the third round is only for rebuttals, without defending one's own case; the final round is only for defense, with no rebuttals. 12. Violation of any of these rules or of any of the R1 set-up merits a loss. Structure R1. Acceptance R2. Pro's case, Con's case R3. Pro rebuts Con's case, Con rebuts Pro's case R4. Pro defends Pro's case, Con defends Con's case, both crystallize Thanks... ...again to whomever accepts, and to voters and readers."	PRO	111
111	S842a72c1-A2774e8a0	Climate Shift	Resolved: Climate Shift is real; Climate shift is influenced by man; Climate shift ought to be a legitimate concern of those who care about the future of humanity. I will take the pro side. The BOP lies on both sides. First round is acceptance only. Second round is construction only. No new arguments may be made in the final round. No new rebuttals may be made in the final round. I'm looking for someone to legitimately and intellectually debate this subject.	PRO	112
112	Sa50d3bff-Ad86570c1	Resolved: Man-made Global Warming, on Planet Earth, Exists.	"http://www.youtube.com...; Thank you, lannan13. Please note that the first few arguments are identical to that of my last global warming debate as my opponent could not finish the last one and has decided to redo this. ==Contention 1: The correlation between increase in Carbon Dioxide and global temperature== Throughout the last 650,000 years, there have been seven cycles of glacial advances and retreats, where the carbon dioxide levels abruptly increased, then gradually decreased afterward. However, in 1950, Co2 levels were at a critical level and kept on rising. As of 2014, the global Co2 levels were at an all time high of nearly 400 parts per million [1]: As we can see above, in the last 650,000 years, the Co2 levels have never grown above 300 ppm, as opposed to now, where the Co2 levels are at 400 ppm. Obviously, this abrupt growth in Co2 levels are caused by human activity, such as mass production, the use of electricity, polluting, etc. I have provide a youtube video above to show the correlation between the high Co2 levels and global temperature [2]. When both are compared, this becomes irrefutable evidence that man-made global warming exists. In fact, as of 2013, the average global temperature was 14.6 degrees Celsius (58.3 degrees Fahrenheit), which is 0.8 degrees Celsius (1.4 degrees Fahrenheit) warmer than when the year was 1880, and 0.6 degrees Celsius (1.1 degrees Fahrenheit) warmer than the mid-20th century baseline [3][4][5]: Already, on the first contention, we have seen major evidence affirming the resolution. ==Contention 2: The cause and effect of the Greenhouse Effect and what makes it more powerful== The greenhouse effect on Planet Earth has been occurring for almost its whole life and is a natural phenomenon, since greenhouse gases such as Co2 have existed on Earth from its birth, thus heating the Earth to help sustain forms of life [6]: ""To its credit, the greenhouse effect has been around long before humans began to burn fossil fuels, and it is a natural phenomenon in that makes life habitable for all living things."" [6] The greenhouse effect operates when the sun's heat passes through Earth's atmosphere, heats the Earth's surface and is reflected back upward. Most of this heat is absorbed by the greenhouse gases like water vapor, Co2 and methane. Afterward, the heat is re-emited in all directions, thus starting the cycle again, continuously heating the Earth. Greenhouse gases literally act like a thermal blanket for Earth [7]: ""A layer of greenhouse gases  primarily water vapor, and including much smaller amounts of carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide  act as a thermal blanket for the Earth, absorbing heat and warming the surface to a life-supporting average of 59 degrees Fahrenheit (15 degrees Celsius)."" [7] From this information, we can conclude that the more greenhouse gases are put into the atmosphere, the more heat from the sun is absorbed, thus creating a powerful greenhouse effect. Human actvity is causing this to happen. P1) The more greenhouse gases there are in the atmosphere, the more powerful the greenhouse effect P2) Human activity is emitting more greenhouse gases into the atmosphere C) Human activity is the cause of a more powerful greenhouse effect, and thus man-made global warming exists. To further prove this point, let us inspect Earth's neighboring planets, Mars and Venus. Mars' atmosphere is quite thin, and it's nearly completely made up of Co2. However, it is because of the low atmospheric pressure and lack of other greenhouse gases that the greenhouse effect is not at all strong and thus Mars has a frozen surface without any signs of organisms [7]. ""Not enough greenhouse effect: The planet Mars has a very thin atmosphere, nearly all carbon dioxide. Because of the low atmospheric pressure, and with little to no methane or water vapor to reinforce the weak greenhouse effect, Mars has a largely frozen surface that shows no evidence of life."" [7] Now, let us inspect Venus. Despite Venus' atmosphere also being almost entirely carbon dioxide, the amount of Co2 Venus contains is about 300 times as much as Mars' or Earth's. This creates a HUGELY powerful greenhouse effect, causing a temperature so high that lead could not stay solid. [7] ""Too much greenhouse effect: The atmosphere of Venus, like Mars, is nearly all carbon dioxide. But Venus has about 300 times as much carbon dioxide in its atmosphere as Earth and Mars do, producing a runaway greenhouse effect and a surface temperature hot enough to melt lead."" [7] Again this information is major evidence of the existence of man-made global warming. ==Conclusion== I have put forward major evidence and arguments proving the existence of man-made global warming. I have also put out evidence that the greenhouse effect does indeed exist. Thus, the resolution is affirmed. [1] http://climate.nasa.gov......; [2] https://www.youtube.com......; [3] http://climate.nasa.gov......; [4] http://climate.nasa.gov......; [5] http://data.giss.nasa.gov......; [6] http://earthguide.ucsd.edu......; [7] http://climate.nasa.gov......"	PRO	113
113	S70cb061-A3959229f	Man-Made global warming exists* and poses a serious threat to humanity.	"Outline: With most of Pro's argument based off the effect of CO2, I simply have to show that CO2 has a minor effect on Global Warming. I already have the historical data to prove it. Rebuttal I: Importance of CO2 Pro brings up Climate Sensitivity. It's a common and exaggerated argument. The GWP measures how sensitive the Climate is to that element. 1 Gigaton of vapor has far less than the effect on the climate of half a Gigaton of CO2. Climate Sensitivity has already been addressed as soon as GWP was brought into the discussion. That being said, with a GWP of 1, not much is happening to the climate... My argument about the Cambrian Era emphasizes this. At 7000 ppm, The climate was only 10c. If the climate was as sensitive to CO2 as Pro claims, the Cambrian Era would have been 50c higher or more, and literally unsurvivable for the Dinosaurs living during it. If climate was as fragile as Pro claims, we would be in, by far, the hottest warming period in the last 400,000 year, not the coldest. Those two things are issues Pro's argument simply disreguards. A) Climate Sensitive Climate Sensitivity is hardly as intense as Pro claims. If you view my charts in R3, you will again see that CO2 is 25% higher than any other period, but the temperature hasn't followed. Why? Because CO2 doesn't have a large effect on temperature. I've already done the math in R2 showing that the increase in CO2 only accounts for 0.15F of the total increase in temperature, which says a lot, since the total increase in temperature still leaves us freezing in comparison to other warming periods. The claim about the potention effect CO2 has and what the actual data say just aren't agreeing. Climate Sensitivity would have took effect in the Cambrian era as well, and let the tempature was well under what Pro needs to back his case. B) Man-Made CO2 Much of Pro's argument is based on how much CO2 human's release... Which I've already brought up. We do tip the pot, I've said this... And we did increase the amount of CO2 in the air, I've said this... And yet the data STILL says it's doing little to nothing. Why? Because, again, CO2 is weak. The amount we release simply isn't doing anything. Again looking at my math in R2, the total increase in CO2 has had an affect of 0.15F. Pro is arguing in circles. ""CO2 is increasing"" ""The increase is doing nothing"" ""But the CO2 is increasing."" Pro is simply arguing in circles, repeating his last round. We already brought up the increase in CO2, I already explained the insignificance of the increase... I even brought up how much we added... In fact, my numbers were higher than Pro's (35 Gigatons to Pro's 29 Gigatons). The increase in CO2 has been recorded, and the increase in temperature has been recording, and the correlation is small and unsupportive of Pro's case. Pro is chasing his tail, and begging the question. Claiming the increase in CO2 is bad because we are increasing CO2, ignoring every argument made showing how little of an affect that increase actually has. Pro is showing how much it's increasing, but as let to show the affect of that increase. I have shown the affect of that increase, and it is minor. Rebuttal II: Indirect Emissions It should be mentioned that Indirect Emissions aren't ignored when measuring PPM. The 400 ppm still includes those. That being said, Indirect Emissions have already been calculated, and do not hold some potential that was overlooked in the chart's I've shown. The increase in CO2 from Indirect Emissions isn't hidden. We see it just like we see any other. They were already accounted for. A) Tree Replanting. My math, in regards to CO2 consumption, is based on an average rate. Not the rate at which new trees consume CO2. Even if the amount consumed was much smaller, it doesn't say much against how wide the gap was. 661.17 Gigatons consumed compared to 237.6 Gigatons made. The total consumption rate by the end of 88 years would have to be cut down by 63%. Odds are, the decrease in CO2 consumption will likely never be that extreme. The gap in Consumption and Emissions is simply too large. If cut in half, the Consumption would be widely above Emission. B) Ocean and Heating This argument is flawed in that it ignores just how small the temperature increase from man-made emissions is. As explained, human emissions (all emission, Methane, Nitrous, and F Gases included) is responsible for an increase of 0.20F, the rest being natural. Pro gravely exaggerates the affect of CO2 on the ocean's ability to absorb CO2. If it was as sensitive as he claims, once the extremely hot Summer season hits the ocean, it would never end. Also the increase needed, being several degrees Celsius, as Pro mentions, is far from the current increase. Assume it takes 4c... It would take 666 years to reach that, as it took 134 years to see temperature increase by 0.85c. This is a causational paradox. Claiming that Global Warming is causing X to create Global Warming. What's causing the temperature to rise? The Ocean's efficency going down. What's causing it to go down? The rising temperature that it was causing. Claiming that X, caused by Y, is causing Y to cause X in the first place. As well, all pro is doing is listing off new ways CO2 is building up. My data includes TOTAL ppm, including direct and indirect. That 400 ppm we are taking about doesn't somehow exclude CO2 from the ocean. For EVERY way pro claims CO2 is raising, it still doesn't prove CO2 is influential enough to be a threat, while my data shows it isn't. Final Defense: CO2 just doesn't have the needed impact to claim human's are responsible for most of Global Warming. The Cambrian Era and the past 400,000 years went unchallenged. Every variable Pro brought up would have effected temperatures in the past as well, and yet the temperature in the Cambrian era was well under what it'd have to be for Pro's claim to be true. As the data shows, the Cambrian Era (550 mya to 480 mya) was nearly 8c above today, despite having 17x the CO2. This chart, like all my other charts, takes into account the whole temperature as it is/was. Every variable and hidden factor that Pro brings in is accounted for. If it's not, that's because the variable literally didn't effect the temperature. The temperature doesn't exclude increases from the decrease in CO2 consumption in the Ocean, if that increases temperature, we'll see it on the chart. With every variable took into effect, temperature to CO2 ratio just doesn't add up to Pro's claim. If CO2 was as capable of the kind of Global Warming Pro claims, directly and indirectly, temperatures in the Cambrian era, and today, would be much higher. Pro acts as though every variable he brought up doesn't show up on my charts, as though they only now exist. They have been involved the whole time. The temperature has increased 1.5F, that increase is already caused by every variable Pro mentioned, and yet it's still leaves us with the coldest warming period in the last 400,000 years, and my math (using the GWP of thg gases) only makes up a small portion of that increase. To small of an increase to snowball out control. If an increase of 0.20F is enough to cause what Pro claims, Summer would be devastating. All of Pro's arguments simply ignores the data. As seen in my charts, CO2 rises with temperature, but isn't causing (most) of the temperature increase. The argument is Post Hoc. CO2 may rise with tempature, but it doesn't cause the temperature. If it did, the Cambrian era would e 4-5x hotter, and we'd be at least 6x hotter. History simply shows that CO2 isn't strong enough to have a major impact on tempature. 1) http://www.geocraft.com... Conclusion: Men-made Global Warming doesn't make up a large part of the Global Warming cycle, and isn't a threat. CO2's effect is small, as has been seen long ago and today. In order for Pro's arguments to be accurate and right, temperatures today must be well above all the temperatures of the last 400,000 years. The fact that temperatures have barely risen with CO2 shows the minimal impact CO2 has on it. Pro's arguments are begging the question. He claims CO2 level raising are an issue because we are increasing CO2, ignoring that data, and GWP of CO2, deems the increase near harmless. CO2 simply does not bare to Global Warming Impact needed to prove Pro's case. Human's are not responsible for most the temperature increase, and our influence simply isn't a threat to humanity."	CON	114
114	S8006a72b-Ab2d84ed4	Global Warming is Man-Made	== Rebuttals == R1) Solar cycle as a driver of climate It is good that Roy discards the idea that TSI can explain the modern temperature increase. Even skeptical climatologists are beginning to accept this, they note TSI can explain virtually none of the warming past 1950 [1]. Roy begins by citing a 1991 study by Friis-Christensen et al (his graph). The study purported to claim the solar cycle length correlated with temperatures. It must be noted Christensens temperature data ended in 1985, which ignores a huge portion of the warming which occurred in the 1990s. Christensens study was criticized for mathematical errors. A new paper has come out and corrected the errors from the original paper. The result was solar cycle length did not correlate well with temperature. Solar cycle length did correlate with temperatures until 1985when the dataset for Friss-Christensen et al. endedbut after 1985, the correlation broke apart. Solar cycle length fell as temperatures began to dramatically increase. The correlation Roy uses in his graph has since been falsified [2]. The following graph shows the updated correlation: The mathematical errors are shown by this graph [3]: As can be seen, Roys source is flawed and newer measurements prove that solar cycle lengths cannot explain the modern warming. Roy then cites a paper purportedly claiming 72% of the earths increase in temperature is due to the solar cycle. Roy cites a skeptical blog, and the blog exaggerated the findings. 72% of the temperature change in the North Atlantic can be explained by solar fluctuations, according to the studynot global temperatures. If you go to the actual source it says [w]e find for the Norwegian local stations investigated that 2556% of the temperature increase the last 150 years may be attributed to the Sun [emphasis added] [4]. You can see the study is looking into local stations, not global phenomena! Roys 72% number is an exaggeration and is in relation to one region, not the entire globe. Evidence shows global temperatures do NOT correlate with solar cycle lengths, and much of the evidence Roy uses relies upon local Norwegian data. Not global data. Therefore, Roy fails to prove that the sun correlates well with global temperature. R2) Cosmic rays and climate For cosmic rays to explain climate change, all of the following must be true: 1) the solar magnetic field must have a long-term negative trend, 2) the cosmic ray flux must have a long-term negative trend, 3) cosmic rays must create low level clouds, 4) low level clouds must have a long term negative trend [5]. The solar magnetic field actually has not changed much over the last 30 years. The correlation between temperature and cosmic rays is fairly weak. Even assuming that the correlation exists, it is about equal to the anti-correlation of TSI (which has been falling, and leading to cooling). Cosmic rays have had little overall impact on temperatures over the last few decades [6]. Have cosmic rays had a long-term negative trend? No. Cosmic rays have had no discernable trend from 1951 to 2006, and have stayed relatively stable [5]. Further, the GCR (galactic cosmic ray) flux only correlated with temperature between 1970 and 1985, and even then it lagged temperature. The correlation totally breaks down in the 1990s. The changes in the GCR flux cannot be the cause of more than 15% of the observed temperature increase [7]. In fact, some research has found the GCR flux is increasing. SkepticalScience, quoting Erlykin et al. 2013, notes [r]ecent measurements of the cosmic ray intensity show that a former decrease with time has been reversed. Thus, even if cosmic rays enhanced cloud production, there would be a small global cooling, not warming (emphasis original) [5]. If GCRs have been causing a net-cooling, they cannot explain the warming trend. Do GCRs cause low-level cloud cover? No. The correlation between GCRs and cloud cover begins to disintegrate in 1989. By 1994, the correlation completely breaks apart, and there is no way that we can see changes in the GCR flux affecting low-level clouds, as can be seen in the graph [8]. Cosmic rays are red, versus low cloud cover (blue). We see little correlation between the two. Do low-level clouds have a negative effect on temperature? There is conflicting evidence here [5]. Regardless, GCRs dont seem to change cloud cover or correlate well with temperature. R3) The pause Roy claims surface temperature has shown no trend recently. He is using RSS data. UAH data finds an increase of temperature over the same period [9]. Over such a short time period, it is impossible to get statistically significant results. So in order to reduce data uncertainty, I will change the data to 1970  present. With this, we will always see a warming trend. However, if this pause is significant, we should see a large change in trends. Using HADCRUT4 data, from 1970  1996 (pause began in 1996) we get .153 C/decade with a margin of error of 0.067. Then to see if the pause significantly reduces this trend, I now extend the data from 1970  2014. What do I get? 0.165 degrees C per decade with a margin of error 0.030 [9]. We see no decrease in the overall trend, which would occur if the pause were significant. And this method reduces data-uncertainty. So we see there is no statistically significant slowdown of the warming trend in HADCRUT4 data. The long-term trend of increasing temperatures is due to CO2. Short-term variability happens all the time; it does not mean that the long-term increase is going to stabilize forever. La Nina events have decreased surface warming. La Nina is an oscillation, it is not a long-term phenomena, and will revert to a positive trend eventually. Many models that account for these oscillations do reproduce the pause. When these factors are accounted for, greenhouse warming still continues to exist [10]. The assertion that models cannot account for the pause is simply incorrect. The oceans increased heat content, aerosol cooling, La Nina events, etc. all lead to cooling. The fact that any warming has happened at all (see my UAH & HADCRUT4 analysis) is supportive of idea that CO2 is a strong climate driver. R4) Paleoclimate Roy begins by claiming CO2 lags temperature. Although he cites no source (or at least, not in that paragraph) I know where he got the claim. I cited the exact paper with that claim last round! It claimed there was an 800 year lag between past climate changes and CO2 concentrations. What skeptics don't tell usand what the paper actually saidis CO2 still acted as an amplifier to other climate changes (a positive feedback for the orbital forcing of the interglacial cycle). CO2 preceded northern hemispheric deglaciation. If you actually read the papers, which claim there to be a lag, they almost all note how CO2 acts as an amplifier and how the results do not contradict AGW. There is new research (Shakun et al.), which argued that CO2 preceded the end of the last ice age, and may have (in part) led to the warm interglacial in which we live today [11]. The following graph from the study demonstrates how CO2 may have been an important factor in the most recent deglaciation: Blue = temperature, Red (and yellow) = CO2 concentrations. The recent Shakun study demonstrates how CO2 may have, in part, ended the last ice age. Roy goes on to claim there is no correlation between CO2 and past temperatures. I followed his sources. The first one was temperature data and made no comments on correlation. Berner 2001 is the other source. I cited this exact study last round. I pulled a direct quote out of the study. I will reiterate it here, over the long term there is indeed a correlation between CO2 and paleotemperature [R2]. Using Roys sources, we see that CO2 does correlate with temperatures. Roys graph is also a oversimplification. It fails to mention that there ARE other forcings in climate. The other major forcing, the sun, does not correlate well with phanerzoic temperatures either. When the two are put together, there is a strong correlation [12]. The sun alone cannot account for temperatures, and CO2 alone cannot account for the temperatures. When put together, they do. This indicates that CO2 is a very important factor in determining climate. The following graph from the paper depicts the correlation when CO2 and the sun are put together: R5) Consensus I agree with Roy that consensus does not tell us whether or not science is correct. The consensus is not what makes the science clear. But there is a consensus because the science is clear. And Roy claims his data supports solar theory. However, I have adequately dismantled that argument using peer-reviewed research and Roys own sources. Roy attempts to claim I have the BOP. This is incorrect. A review of the rules in round one tells us, (rule 5) the BOP is split evenly. Therefore, Roy has an equally important role in disproving AGW as I do in proving it. Roy shows examples of the consensus failing. This can occur, but citing a few high profile cases back when science was less rigorous is not very compelling. Modern science requires empirical evidence for scientific claims. And as most experts believe in AGW, chances are, strong empirical evidence corroborates the theory. Roy makes a claim about catastrophic warming. This is not what we are debating, it is irrelevant. Roy claims climategate shows how scientists suppress the science. A reading through the emails, in context, really shows no malice was intended [13]. Multiple independent panels have reviewed the emails, and concluded that no scientific malpractice was committed [14]. Conclusion The sun is not the cause of the recent warming trend. Paleoclimate continues to give credence to the idea that increased CO2 levels warm the climate. Man is the main driver of modern global warming. Sources: http://www.debate.org...	PRO	115
115	S9b3d820f-Ae17ffe47	Anthropogenic global warming is a threat	"""...other variables such as water vapor, soot, solar radiation and other green house gases. Water vapor isnt a forcing agent. Its a feedback loop as when CO2 levels go up, more water vapor gets in the atmosphere [1]. Soot (A.K.A black carbon) is only in the atmosphere for days to weeks, but CO2 is there for centuries. Short-lived climate forcers  methane, black carbon and ozone  are fundamentally different from longer-lived greenhouse gases, remaining in the atmosphere for only a relatively short time. Deep and immediate carbon dioxide reductions are required to protect long-term climate, as this cannot be achieved by addressing short-lived climate forcers.[2] The source also doesn't explain how global warming is a threat to humankind, nor does it imply global warming to be a threat either. It wasnt suppose to. There are some positive effects yet the negative outweigh these. The negative effects are Decline in rice yields due to warmer nighttime minimum temperatures [3] Decreasing human water supplies, increased fire frequency, ecosystem change and expanded deserts [4] Decreased water supply in the Colorado River Basin [5] Substantial negative impacts to marine ecosystems [6][7][8] Spread in mosquite-borne diseases such as Malaria and Dengue Fever [9] and so much more [10] My opponent also follows the EPA designation that CO2 is an air pollutant that directly harms humans.  The term air pollutant means any air pollution agent or combination of such agents, including any physical, chemical, biological, radioactive (including source material, special nuclear material, and byproduct material) substance or matter which is emitted into or otherwise enters the ambient air. [11] This is a much broader definition. Also Title 1, Part A, Section 7408 states ""emissions of which, in his judgment, cause or contribute to air pollution which may reasonably be anticipated to endanger public health or welfare"" In Massachusetts v. Environmental Protection Agency [12] (in 2007), the US Supreme Court held that the Clean Air Act gives the EPA the authority to regulate tailpipe emissions of greenhouse gases. Two years after the Supreme Court ruling, in 2009 the EPA issued an endangerment finding concluding that ""greenhouse gases in the atmosphere may reasonably be anticipated both to endanger public health and to endanger public welfare....The major assessments by the U.S. Global Climate Research Program (USGCRP), the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), and the National Research Council (NRC) serve as the primary scientific basis supporting the Administrators endangerment finding."" Greenhouse gases including CO2 fit the Clean Air acts definition of air pollution. Furthermore Encyclopedia Brittanica defines pollution as ""the addition of any substance (solid, liquid, or gas) or any form of energy (such as heat, sound, or radioactivity) to the environment at a rate faster than it can be dispersed, diluted, decomposed, recycled, or stored in some harmless form."" [13] Increasing CO2 levels have direct affects to our environment. Such as, the ocean absorbing CO2 from the atmosphere, leading to acidification which messes with marine ecosystems. Clearly its a pollutant. A threat to humanity and the stability of geopolitics is the current hyped up rhetoric between Iran and Israel over Iran's nuclear program which could result in the creation of a nuclear warhead. With Israel threatening military attacks on Iranian nuclear enrichment plants. (3) Another economic threat to the world would be Iran's threat to attempt to blockade the straits of Hormuz if UN sanctions severely cripple its oil economy. (4) An even more obvious threat to international stability is the possibility of the chemical weapons stockpiled in Syria could fall into the hands of terrorist groups as the Syrian Civil War invites third party jihadists on the sides of either the Free Syrian Army or the Syrian Regime.  OK, I dont see what this has to do with global warming, but OK. Bit of a red herring here. If this truly is a threat, then we should deal with both. [1] http://www.nasa.gov... [2] Integrated Assessment of Black Carbon and Tropospheric Ozone; United Nations Environment Programme, http://www.unep.org..., 2011 [3] http://www.pnas.org... [4] http://www.pnas.org... [5] http://www.agu.org... [6] http://www.ipsl.jussieu.fr... [7] http://icesjms.oxfordjournals.org... [8] http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com... [9] http://www.decvar.org... [10] http://www.skepticalscience.com... [11] United States Code of Federal Regulations, Title 42, Chapter 85. Its Title III, Section 7602(g) [12] http://www.supremecourt.gov... [13] http://www.britannica.com..."	PRO	116
116	S66bd90cb-Af997d6bf	Mankind Is the Main Cause of Global Warming	"Interesting points, Ron-Paul. Sorry for leaving the debate to the last minute, I've been rather busy of late. Thanks for taking all this time to type out a response. I. The current state of the galaxy AND the sun? That is very unusual, since they are not necessarily correlate. I.i. The Rest of the Solar System It is interesting that Mars is brought up here, a planet that we don't really have information for before 1970 and that we are only scratching the surface on in terms of dust storms and their planetary effects etc. but let's look at the argument... ""carbon dioxide ""ice caps"" near Mars's south pole had been diminishing for three summers in a row."" Three years? How does one infer warming from this? However, I shall quote a climate science website... ""This is essentially due to large scale dust storms that were common back then (1977), compared to a lower level of storminess now. The mean temperature on Mars, averaged over the Martian year can change by many degrees from year to year, depending on how active large scale dust storms are."" Thus the cause of the three - year - melting in ice caps? Dust storms, which, by the way, act like Carbon Dioxide in the atmosphere. There has been no direct observation of global warming on Triton. There has been an observance of greater luminosity, but that is because Neptune does have changes (those causing Triton to seem brighter) but they are seasonal as well - a year on Neptune is 165 years on earth. Neptune is entering it's Summer. As for Jupiter, it is not warming at all. Predictions say it will warm because of storm and dust movements, not because of solar radiation. As for Pluto, we can go back to Neptune. Pluto's orbit is 248 earth years - this is like observing earth for three weeks. How do we know where it is on it's orbit? A probe has never even actually been sent to Pluto! I.ii. I agree that less cosmic rays will be hitting the earth. However, the connection between cosmic rays and cloud cover is uncertain, and, more importantly in this argument, cosmic rays do not correlate with temperature AFTER 1994 - so really this could be an argument that global warming DOES have human causes, because, as this chart shows, temperatures have gone up dramatically where cosmic rays have gone down only slightly of late. (7) II. Humans, of course, are the main internal cause of global warming! II.i. It is impossible for an ocean oscillation to create or retain heat of it's own. It merely circulates heat throughout the atmosphere and oceans, (5) which is why the atmosphere becomes warmer at some points. If you think about it, anything else would be ludicrous - currents CAUSE heat? Impossible. There are short term effects of heating in the atmosphere (and cooling) from the circulation, but what this chart shows (5) is how these circulations differ from actual changes in heat. II.ii. I refer the audience to my earlier graph, which suggests that there is no causal effect between cosmic rays and global warming over the long term. I also refer my audience to four studies that were conducted on the subject after Svensmark's 1998.... These conclude that ""no statistically significant correlations were found between any of the four cloud parameters and GCR"" - Kristjansson et al. (2008) ""no response of global cloud cover to Forbush decreases at any altitude and latitude."" - Calogovic et al. (2010) """"galactic cosmic rays appear to play a minor role for atmospheric aerosol formation events, and so for the connected aerosol-climate effects as well."" Kulmala et al. (2010) What my graph here shows is that the third (and most recent of all four studies, including my opponent's) premise would seem to be correct. III. Interestingly, the opposition's graph only goes back 1000 years. To give the audience a more holistic picture, here is one of five year averages in the northern hemisphere going back to 0 CE. What is important to take into account here is that the sun does indeed affect earth's temperature, but in different ways and at different times, and in greater amounts of time than of late. My opposition says that the Medieval Warming Period was warmer than today, however, this is not so. The misinterpretation of data is a result of the restrictedness of the data - most of it was taken in the North Atlantic and Greenland, where various forms of paleoatmospheric research show that it was indeed much warmer today. HOWEVER, in the tropical Pacific it was much cooler than today. Overall, as my graph has shown, we have reached global temperatures that are on average MUCH warmer than the averages of the Medieval Warming period! And here is another graph similar to that of my opponent but more specific.... Different colours showing different areas/forms of evidence from a variety of sources. All in all what I am saying here is that in 1950 my opposition could have seemed quite correct in his graphing, with perhaps a few discrepancies concerning the rapidity of temperature increase. However, it has CONTINUED to warm, and this is what is worrying to scientists. It continues to warm to the point that, if it should continue at current rates, the earthly survival of plants and animals may be threatened. IV. Another used - to - be - true argument. Once more, this graph shows that over the past several decades, temperature and solar activity have gone in opposite directions. Why is this? Because of the anthropogenic effect. Note that this following graph deals with WORLD temperatures rather than US specific, which are neither accurate nor credible as evidence of global climate as a whole. (Different places on earth experience different warmings/coolings at different times. V. This point is, I believe, backed by flawed logic - both are cases of warming, but with different causes. If a logger pull out an axe and chops down a tree, then points to a tree that fell naturally and says ""the tree that I just chopped down fell naturally because it looks the same as the other one"" would you believe the logger's ""logic"" or would you believe what you saw with your own eyes? There would seem to be many poins here that are not correlated (thus making them all true to be more unlikely) and many that do not seem to be backed by credible research. There have been many causes of warming on a global level in the past, humans are just another. And we are a natural cause because, contrary to what blind followers of the religion that externalities to short term profits do not exist, governments, businesses, and individuals are fallible and can cause problems on an environmental scale. However, I appreciate my opponent's points and look forward to reading his criticisms of mine. 1. http://www.skepticalscience.com... 2. http://www.realclimate.org... 3. http://www.newscientist.com... 4. http://www.skepticalscience.com... 5. http://www.skepticalscience.com... 6. http://scienceblogs.com... 7. http://www.skepticalscience.com... 8. http://www.newscientist.com... 9. http://en.wikipedia.org... 10. http://www.skepticalscience.com... 11. http://en.wikipedia.org... 12. http://www.skepticalscience.com..."	PRO	117
117	S66bd9128-Aa43fdcc2	Mankind Is the Main Cause of Global Warming	"I would like to thank JonMilne for presenting his arguments. I. Greenhouse Gases Before I begin, here is a chart showing which greenhouse gases absorb which wavelengths of light: [1] I.A. Methane From the chart, it can be seen that methane has an absorption band (at 8 micrometres) that largely overlaps with water vapor, so an increase in methane has little effect on temperature.[1] Also, the Deepwater Horizon oil spill put out a lot of methane, but: ""methane respiration rates increased to levels higher than have ever been recorded, ultimately consuming it and prohibiting its release to the atmosphere.What the Deepwater Horizon incident has taught us is that releases of methane with similar characteristics will not have the capacity to influence climate.""[2][3] I.B. Nitrous Oxide In addition to methane, the wavelengths of light that nitrous oxide absorb largely overlap with that of water vapor, so an increase in nitrous oxide also has little effect on temperature.[1] Also, a new by Lucky Savings"" href=""#"">study found that cattle grazed on the grasslands of China actually reduce another greenhouse gas, nitrous oxide, meaning that agriculture reduces this greenhouse gas.[4][5] I.C. Carbon Dioxide There are many proofs that this amount of carbon dioxide will not affect temperatures, but I will post four. But first, again, the wavelengths of light carbon dioxide absorbs also largely matches up with water vapor, meaning it also has little effect on temperature. First, by the greenhouse effect, global warming should be starting from the lower atmosphere and moving to the surface, but this is not happening: ""... by Lucky Savings"" href=""#"">satellite and high-altitude balloon data confirm that the lower atmosphere is not trapping lots of additional heat due to higher CO2 concentrations. It is hard to know how fast the Earth's highly variable surface is warming, but it is warming faster than the lower atmosphere where the CO2 is accumulating. This is strong evidence that CO2 is not the primary climate factor.""[6] Here is a graph showing how the surface has warmed more than the troposphere: [1] (Blue line is troposphere temperatures) Second, CO2 is a lagging indicator. The most recent study on this concluded that the results of their tedious but meticulous analysis led them to ultimately conclude that ""the CO2 increase lagged Antarctic deglacial warming by 800 +/- 200 years.""[7][8] Here is a graph showing this: [9] Third, CO2's effect on temperature is logarithmic, meaning that each additional increase has a smaller effect on the climate than the last. ""The carbon that is already up in the atmosphere absorbs most of the light it can. CO2 only soaks up its favorite wavelengths of light and it's close to its saturation point. It manages to grab a bit more light from wavelengths that are close to its favorite bands but it can't do much more, because there are not many left-over photons at the right wavelengths.""[1][9] Here is a graph showing the logarithmic curve: [10]. Note how the pre-industrial to modern level increase has had less than a 0.2 C increase in temperature. Fourth, and most importantly, if greenhouse gases are warming the earth we are supposed to see the first signs of it in the patch of hot air 10 kilometers above the tropics. However, we don't see that. Here is the predicted ""hot spot"" of greenhouse gas caused warming: [11] While here is the actual atmospheric temperature variation: [9][11] Even so, CO2 has not correlated well with the climate anyway. Throughout the past 600 million years, almost one-seventh of the age of the Earth, the mode of global surface temperatures was ~22C, even when carbon dioxide concentration peaked at 7000 ppmv, almost 20 times today's near-record-low concentration.[12] Here is a chart showing CO2 concentrations and temperatures over time: [12] Overall, CO2 has a correlation coefficient of 0.44, which is considered poor.[13] II. The Hockey Stick The hockey stick is wildly inaccurate: ""The dataset used to make this construction contained collation errors, unjustified truncation or extrapolation of source data, obsolete data, incorrect principal component calculations, geographical mislocations and other serious defects. These errors and defects substantially affect the temperature index. The major finding is that the values in the early 15th century exceed any values in the 20th century. The particular hockey stick shape derived in the MBH98 proxy construction a temperature index that decreases slightly between the early 15th century and early 20th century and then increases dramatically up to 1980 is primarily an artefact of poor data handling, obsolete data and incorrect calculation of principal component.[1][14] Temperatures have been warmer than today as recently as 1300 ACE.""During the Medieval Warming... . Temperatures may have been as much as 2.5 degrees C warmer [than today] due to a southward shift of the climate belts.""[6] Here is a graph showing temperatures in Greenland over the last 10,000 years: [15] And on other side of the world in Antarctica: [15] Both clearly show that today's temperatures are relatively cool compared to earlier times. Why is the Medieval Warm Period not represented? ""A senior IPCC researcher said in an email 'We have to get rid of the Medieval Warm Period.' Christopher Monckton says ""They did this by giving one technique, measurement of tree-rings from bristlecone pines, 390 times more weighting than other techniques but didn't disclose this.""[1] The hockey stick has little credibility. III. Arctic Sea Ice I'm not going to get so much into this since I already disproved that CO2 causes warming, but I will say two things. One, here is a graph showing geomagnetic field strength (a measure of solar activity) and CO2 versus temperature (a measure of sea ice loss): [16] It is clear that solar activity is a lot more important than CO2 is in arctic ice loss. Two, my opponent neglects the Antarctic. If the greenhouse thoery were valid, temperatures in the Arctic and the Antarctic would have risen several degrees Celsius since 1940 due to the huge emissions of man-made CO2... Recently, a team led by the University of Chicago's Peter Doran published a paper in Nature saying, '...our spatial analysis of Antarctic meteorological data demonstrates a net cooling on the Antarctic continent between 1966 and 2000'. The data from 21 Antarctic surface stations show an average continental decline of 0.008 degrees C from 1978 to 1998, and the infrared data from satellites operating since 1979 show a decline of 0.42 degrees C per decade. They report that satellite imaging shows increases in Souther Ocean sea ice parameters from 1978 to 1996 and an increase in the length of the sea-ice season in the 1990s""[6] Here is the Antarctic Sea Ice anomaly: [17] It's increasing, which is a sign of cooling. Sources http://tny.cz..."	CON	118
118	S842a72c1-A785f3e38	Climate Shift	"A suprisingly short response. Framework My opponent has totally ignored the framework thus far, using round 1 for construction instead of acceptance, and round 2 for rebuttals instead of construction. Conduct should be awarded to pro for this reason. Pro's Defence Only the scientists who report opinions have opinions that matter. This is called Voluntary Response Bias. If a scientist takes no stance, they neither support nor deny the existence of climate shift. This point my opponent makes does not meet the burden of proof, and does not fully discredit the scientific consensus. The source my opponent posted does not even fully discredit my argument. Many of my points are left totally unrebbutted, and I forward those points. ""The true debate is about the cause of climate change, as we already know it has changed many times before now."" This statement is vague and unsourced and isn't a compelling argument. My opponent seeks to rebut my entire argument by a failed discrediting of one source and point. He does not present a compelling case, and his argument does not meet the burden of proof."	PRO	119
119	S842a72e0-Aec4d7b96	Climate Shift	"Well my oppenet pretty much just had a argument that says ""the scientist say its right, so its right."" Climate change models have been failing for years now. It was predicted that by 2013 there would benno polar ice left. In 2013 the ice capsnincreased massively. In fact, there was little polarnice in the 1930s, but the ice increased rapidly until the 80s when they started to shrink again. The warming of the earht is not unusual. The medieval warming period had heats hotter then the heat today. The little ice following it had tempatures far colder then today. This shows heat change is normal. In fact overall planet tempature has decrised since the 90s. The super hurricanes predicted by envirmentalist have not come. The hurricanes of the early 1900s were far stronger then today's. The hurricane that destroyed galvistonnis a good example. If anything shows the fallacy of climate change, it is the mound of failed environmentalists predictions."	CON	120
120	S66bd9128-A3ac840d9	Mankind Is the Main Cause of Global Warming	"I thank Sabutai for letting me part of this debate. I have only just seen the part of the Round 2 requirements which includes the terminology ""no rebuttals by Pro"", which I do consider somewhat odd being that Con has provided material which I believe probably does deserve an immediate response in order to give Con time to revise or clarify certain parts of his argument. Still, I do have enough in my arsenal for me to present a better case than what Con presents for my case that humans are indeed the main cause of global warming. Let us begin: Agriculture Something that people are not so aware of with regards to global warming is the contribution of agriculture - which is to say livestock and farming - which is third in the world for CO2 emissions. CO2 isn""t even the leading GHG emission from farming, as methane is the major contributing by-product. It is huge (1). To quote: ""In 2010, global greenhouse gas emissions from the agricultural sector totaled 4.7 billion tons of carbon dioxide (COv(2)) equivalent, up 13 percent over 1990. Agriculture is the third largest contributor to global emissions by sector, following the burning of fossil fuels for power and heat, and transportation. In 2010, emissions from electricity and heat production reached 12.5 billion tons, and emissions from transport totaled 6.7 billion tons. Despite their continuing rise, emissions from agriculture are growing at a much slower rate than the sector as a whole, demonstrating the increasing carbon efficiency of agriculture. From 1990 to 2010, the volume of agricultural production overall increased nearly 23 percent, according to data compiled by the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) for its program, FAOSTAT. FAO released a new Greenhouse Gas Emissions database for agriculture, forestry and other land use changes in December 2012, which can be found here (http://www.fao.org...). According to FAO, methane accounts for just under half of total agricultural emissions, nitrous oxide for 36 percent, and carbon dioxide for some 14 percent. The largest source of methane emissions is enteric fermentation, or the digestion of organic materials by livestock, predominantly beef cattle. This is also the largest source of agricultural emissions overall, contributing 37 percent of the total."" There is, quite simply, no way that this much methane and nitrous oxide are from natural causes, and the fact that 50%of the earth""s surface is given over to farm and grazing land means a huge loss of forest, which serves as a carbon sink(the main sink is the oceans, however), so combined deforestation plus emissions from agriculture are man made. The amount of Arctic Ice Loss This is now greater than it has been in 3 million years, and this absolutely cannot be said to be from natural causes. To quote (2): ""The thaw and release of carbon currently frozen in permafrost will increase atmospheric CO2 concentrations and amplify surface warming to initiate a positive permafrost carbon feedback (PCF) on climate"". [Our] estimate may be low because it does not account for amplified surface warming due to the PCF itself"". We predict that the PCF will change the arctic from a carbon sink to a source after the mid-2020s and is strong enough to cancel 42-88% of the total global land sink. The thaw and decay of permafrost carbon is irreversible and accounting for the PCF will require larger reductions in fossil fuel emissions to reach a target atmospheric CO2 concentration. The permafrost permamelt contains a staggering ""1.5 trillion tons of frozen carbon, about twice as much carbon as contained in the atmosphere, much of which would be released as methane. Methane is 25 times as potent a heat-trapping gas as CO2 over a 100 year time horizon, but 72 times as potent over 20 years! One of the most conservative assumptions the study made, the lead author Dr. Kevin Schaefer confirmed in an email, is that all of the carbon would be released as CO2 and none as methane."" And to quote from another study about the Arctic (3): "" ""The bad news is that there is a clear connection between temperature and the amount of sea ice. And there is no doubt that continued global warming will lead to a reduction in the amount of summer sea ice in the Arctic Ocean. The good news is that even with a reduction to less than 50% of the current amount of sea ice the ice will not reach a point of no return: a level where the ice no longer can regenerate itself even if the climate was to return to cooler temperatures,"" [lead author Svend] Funder says. "" So chalk up another point for how influential mankind is in contributing to global warming. Deforestation This one is plainly simple (4), because according to CO2 NOW, we find the situation where forest loss contributes 9% to CO2 build up, and forests account for 26% of CO2 absorption, so deforestation has been a huge man made contributor as well. The reliability and enduring nature of the hockey stick graph According to the New Scientist article covering the 2006 report of the US National Academy of Science (5): ""The report states: ""The basic conclusion of Mann et al. (1998, 1999) was that the late 20th century warmth in the Northern Hemisphere was unprecedented during at least the last 1000 years. This conclusion has subsequently been supported by an array of evidence that includes both additional large-scale surface temperature reconstructions and pronounced changes in a variety of local proxy indicators, such as melting on ice caps and the retreat of glaciers around the world"". Most researchers would agree that while the original hockey stick can - and has - been improved in a number of ways, it was not far off the mark. Most later temperature reconstructions fall within the error bars of the original hockey stick. Some show far more variability leading up to the 20th century than the hockey stick, but none suggest that it has been warmer at any time in the past 1000 years than in the last part of the 20th century. ... Climate scientists, however, are only too aware of the problems (see Climate myths: It was warmer during the Medieval period), and the uncertainties were both highlighted by Mann's original paper and by others at the time it was published. ... The new reconstruction has been generated using two statistical methods, both different to that used in the original study. Like other temperature reconstructions done since 2001 (see graph), it shows greater variability than the original hockey stick. Yet again, though, the key conclusion is the same: it's hotter now than it has been for at least 1000 years. In fact, independent evidence, from ice cores and sea sediments for instance, suggest the last time the planet approached this degree of warmth was during the interglacial period preceding the last ice age over 100,000 years ago. It might even be hotter now than it has been for at least a million years. Further back in the past, though, it certainly has been hotter - and the world has been a very different place. The crucial point is that our modern civilisation has been built on the basis of the prevailing climate and sea levels. As these change, it will cause major problems."" It is quite clear that all this evidence is very strong for the weight of man's influence in helping global warming along. I now hand back to Con. Sources: (1) http://www.worldwatch.org... (2) http://thinkprogress.org... (3) http://thinkprogress.org... (4) http://co2now.org... (5) http://www.newscientist.com..."	PRO	121
121	Saac88cec-Ab6618066	Global temperatures have always been changing despite Co2 increases	 The icecap on Kilimanjaro has been melting since the 1800s, long before human emissions could have influenced the global climate, and satellites do not detect a warming trend in the region; deforestation at the foot of the mountain is the likely explanation for the melting trend (See http://www.climatechangefraud.com/content/view/468/218/ for more info);  Sea levels have been rising at the rate of 10 to 20 centimeters (four to eight inches) per hundred years for the past 6,000 years  There has been no increase in extreme weather events (.e.g., floods, tornadoes, drought) over the past century or in the past 15 years; computer models used to forecast climate change do not predict more extreme weather  The Ross Ice Shelf in Antarctica has been melting for the past 6,000 years; Greenlands ice sheet is not melting according to 17 years of satellite data recently released (See http://www.climatechangefraud.com/content/view/1548/218/ for more information)  Most of the warming in the past century occurred before 1940, before CO2 emissions could have been a major factor  Temperatures fell between 1940 and 1970 even as CO2 levels increased	PRO	122
122	Saa3d5131-A24412fa	Mankind Is Not the Main Cause of Global Warming	"Thanks again to Subutai for allowing me to take on this challenge! I've enjoyed the debate we've had throroughly. For this round, I will go through my opponents rebuttalls, and defend my case against them, and then make my closing statements. A) CO2 Lag in temperature changes So the first problem we should address with this rebuttal is that it implies that I am trying to prove that GHGs are the driving force behind all forms of climate change. This is not the case. Climate shift, historically, has been/can be driven by several factors, usually multiple acting at once. What I can and have proven, though, is that CO2 and other GHGs have been a factor in the majority of climate shifts, historically, and that modern global warming can be explained only by the increase of atmospheric CO2 due to anthropogenic influences. So, let's examine my opponents source number 2 for round 3. He attempts to demonstrate that CO2 increases have lagged warming, and therefore CO2 cannot be the cause of modern warming. This is not so. In fact, the very source he cited (source 2 round 3 [1]) states that though the warming may have been initiated by another factor in climate shift, the sudden increase of CO2 from positive feedback amplified the warming effect massively. This is corroborated by cross-reference with my arguments regarding the phanerzoic era, and positive feedback loops in CO2 release. ""When the Earth comes out of an ice age, the warming is not initiated by CO2 but by changes in the Earth's orbit. The warming causes the oceans to release CO2. TheCO2 amplifies the warming and mixes through the atmosphere, spreading warming throughout the planet. So CO2 causes warming AND rising temperature causes CO2rise. Overall, about 90% of the global warming occurs after the CO2 increase."" [2] ""If you actually read the papers, which claim there to be a lag, they almost all note how CO2 acts as an amplifier and how the results do not contradict AGW. There is new research (Shakun et al.), which argued that CO2 preceded the end of the last ice age, and may have (in part) led to the warm interglacial in which we live today. The following graph from the study demonstrates how CO2 may have been an important factor in the most recent deglaciation:"" [3] The truth is that sometimes small amounts of warming are intitiated, and then CO2 release into the atmosphere causes massive warming. This can be misconstrued to say that other forms of climate forcing could be present, but analysis of paleoclimate data, and the factors that are forcing the climate currently, it can be seen that Anthropogenic CO2 release can be the only explanatory factor of modern global warming, despite CO2 lag. [4][5][6][7][8] B) Troposphere climate data. The rebuttal to this argument is simple. The data my opponent cites is, simply, incorrect. ""Satellite measurements do show warming in the Tropsphere when a cooling bias from the Stratosphere is removed. Warming trends agree well with surface temperatures and model predictions except near the Poles. Differences between various analyses are largely due to analysis techniques and compensations for satellite data issues."" [9] The data displayed, though not cited, by my opponent is based largely on Spencer and Christy 1992, which used collection methods that have since been significantly improved upon, and the modern satallite data collected shows us that the earth as a whole is indeed warming. [10] C) South Pole is cooling. Again, this is a false leap my opponent is begging you to make. He claims that ice is increasing in the south pole, and then states that it is therefore cooling. Cooling is not indicitive of increased ice formation. That is simply not true. The southern ocean has recorded to be warming. [11] The increase in ice anomaly is due only to a complex mixture of changing currents (brought on by global warming) and the hole in the ozone layer. [12][13] D) CO2 is saturated This argument is fairly weak, as the myth that CO2 saturation can occur has been debunked. The opposite has been conclusively proven with empiric evidence. The idea that CO2 saturation can occur is based on a fundamental misunderstanding of the way that the greenhouse effect occurs. ""This argument originates from Angstrom's work in 1901. We now know that the planetary energy balance is determined by the upper levels of the troposphere and that the saturation of the absorption at the central frequency does not preclude the possibility to absorb more energy."" [14] The argument that my opponent is making is ancient (over 100 years old) and has since been debunked, as the modern atmospheric warming model now accounts for the simple force of convection. Essentially, this argues that the CO2 is in the atmosphere to absorb extra heat from the sun and heat the Earth. That is not how a greenhouse works, or how the greenhouse effect occurs. When a greenhouse is heated, the glass then keeps the hot air from escaping, which causes warming. The same goes for CO2. The earth is heated, and then releases this energy in the form of black body radiation. Increased CO2 concentrations prevents this radiation from escaping at the proper rate. E) Troposphere hot-spot This counterpoint my opponent has made is going to follow the pattern that his counter-case has followed thus far. His case is based on data that has been collected incorrectly, and proven to have been collected incorrectly. Essentially, my opponent (through no fault of his own) is citing data and sources that are patently false, and lend no water to his case. ""Satellite measurements match model results apart from in the tropics. There isuncertainty with the tropic data due to how various teams correct for satellite drift. The U.S. Climate Change Science Program conclude the discrepancy is most likely due to data errors."" [15] Improved data collection has shown that the data cited by my opponent was mired with error, and that improved data collection methods demonstrate a hotspot. [16][17][18] The ""Consensus"" My opponent, for whatever reason, decides to attack the recent media reports on the ""scientific consensus"" on AGW. I never cited a consensus, rather I only cited thousands of empiric studies with empiric evidence in support of AGW, and asked the voters to weigh these sources against the one single report published in conflict with AGW. A concensus is apparent though, but it I do not argue that the science is clear because there is a consensus. I argue that there is a concensus because the science is clear. By my opponents line of logic, we ought to deny scientific consensus due to the rare occasion where a consensus is totally false, but this is not proper logic. The truth is when a consensus is reached in the sceintific community (post scientific revolution/enlightenment era) that the consensus is right nearly 99.999% of the time! No we shouldn't accept something as the absolute and gospel truth just because there is a consensus, but in the face of overwhelming data and testimony from experts, versus sparse data from a splinter group of deniers, the only logical and reasonable belief to side with is that of the overwhelming evidence and expertise. Therefore, you must vote CON! Sources in comments"	CON	123
123	Se62a5fda-A5e755595	Official May Tournament Final: Global Warming	"Contention 1: CO2 and Temperatures. First, let's bring up just how much these accused compounds exactly warm the Earth's atmosphere. CO2 for example has the global warming potential of 1. Here are the other numbers. Carbon Dioxide -- 1 Methane -- 21 Nitrous Oxide -- 298-310 CFC's -- Various Water Vapor -- 0.25 [1] Now, I just want you to keep this in mind for this next part here. We may observe that humans release approximately 35 gigatons of CO2 a year. [2] This is only 4.3% of the total amount of all Global Warming Gasses, however it is incrediably small when it comes to comparing the rest of the Global Warming gasses. If we observe the chart bellow we can see that Water Vapor is a large Contributor to Global Warming at 95% and CO2 comes in second. But here's the kicker. If we look at the Human contributed part that I'm about to post in the graph bellow we can see that it's very miniscule of 0.117% of all total Warming gasses. Now let's do some quick math here. CO2's increase was from what my opponent is claiming is from 295 ppm to 400ppm, a total of only 105 ppm. 1 Gigaton of CO2 is the equilivent of 2.13 ppm. [3] This means that increase of 105 ppm means a total of 49.29 gigatons. Since 1 gigaton of CO2 is the equivilance of .004% of the Greenhouse effect that means that 49.29 gigatons means an aditional .21% increase to Global Warming. This would account for a grand total of a 0.15 F increase in global temperature. This is a very measly amount and we can see that with my opponent's claims a simple 0.15 F increase isn't enough to melt glacers and have the effeccts that he is speaking of and it proves that this is NAUTRAL not man-made to fulfil his effects if they were real. The above graph shows that comparisions of C13 (Carbon isotope) and this shows that there is little to no trend pertrade in many of these as the average is zero while the trend for all of these are zero. [4] This is important as the Carbon isotope is important in measuring this so called ""Global Warming."" Let us observe the above graph. Here I would like to point out the that the increase from Pre-Inustrial to Industrial era and the doubling of the CO2 leveling lead to a decrease in it's temperature. Also we can see that the 10 mile ""hot-spot"" above the tropics is actually absent. ""The computer models show that greenhouse warming will cause a hot-spot at an altitude between 8 and 12 km over the tropics between 30 N and 30 S. The temperature at this hot-spot is projected to increase at a rate of two to three times faster than at the surface. However, the Hadley Centre's real-world plot of radiosonde temperature observations shown below does not show the projected CO2 induced global warming hot-spot at all. The predicted hot-spot is entirely absent from the observational record. This shows that atmosphere warming theory programmed into climate models are wrong."" [5] Now if we observe the above graph of the past 400,000 yeasrs we can see that the CO2 rates in our atmosphere has flutated the exact same way in this cycle both before and during the existance of human beings. We can see that the temperatures and CO2 levels have been going up and down randomly for the past 100 thousands years and it is observed that this occured before the industrial revolution. We can also see that right now we are in a warming period so that arguing that humans are because of this is post hoc. Not to mention that we are in the coldest of the warming periods in Earth's history! We can see that once again despite contrary to belief we can see that though there may be warming the fact is simply that there is no human warming. Contention 2: Earth is cooling. If we observe the above graph we can see that Earth has been a whole lot hotter than where we currently are to the point where the Earth's average temperature has been 7.5 degrees Celcuis hotter than it currently it is. You can also see that in the span of the past 10,000 years the temperature has leveld off, but you may ask yourself where does that place us in the lights of modern day? I am going to site Dr. Done Easterbrook, who is a climate scientist. Back in 2000 he predicted that Earth was entering a cooling phase. He predicts that for the next 20 years Earth will cool by 3/10 degree each year and that we are going to enter another little Ice Age like we did from 1650 and 1790. (6) The funny thing is that many of my opponent's charts are actually from the incorrect IPPC. How about the ""Hockey Stick"" graph that many Global Warming supporters , including my opponent, argue about? Well if we observe the fallowing chart taken from Northern Scandenavia we can see that the Global trend over the past 1,000 years that the Global Cooling trend slope is that of -0.31 Degrees Celcuis, give or take 0.03 degrees (for the error room). Professor Dr. Jan Esper has found that the Earth's temperature of Earth actually decreases 0.3 per millenia due to the Earth moving away from the sun. (7) Here is another graph from 1920 to 2005 and we can see that the graph has a negative temperature slope, thus meaning that the Earth is under a period of cooling. (8) You can see in terms of more Warming in the evidence in which Scientists use Ice Cores Earth has actually been Cooling the past Mellenium. You can see that in terms of Gasses contribution to the Green House Effect the major contributer is Water Vapor and it's at 95% to CO2's 3.6% and this is the overall contribution including man made and natural. When we look to the chart on the left we can see that Man-Made CO2 does have a higher contribution to the atmosphere than Water Vapor, but that's because we do not create much water vapor as humans. Even with this evidence we can see that CO2 does not have any effect what-so-ever compared to Water Vapor. (9) Where might those CFCs be on this graph you may ask. Why it's under the Misc. gases section. Once again, we can see that the IPCC and Al Gore are inccorect as the hocky stick graph is a bust. As I've shown in earlier rounds and they have been dropped in showing that the Earth's temperature has indeed been way hotter then current and on an average basis at that. My opponent has also dropped my opening graph in C1 r2 That also showed that CO2 levels are at an all time low! Thus once again disproving my opponent's theory. Here we can see that even though CO2 levels are increaseing that the temperature in recent years has actually decreased on the linear scale. Also, the US Senate Committe on Envirnment and public works also took a stab at this issue. They found that the Hocky Stick graph was also bogus in 2006. Todays NAS report reaffirms what I have been saying all along, that Mann's hockey stick is broken,Senator Inhofe said.Todays report refutes Mann's prior assertions that there was no Medieval Warm Period or Little Ice Age. This report shows that the planet warmed for about 200 years prior to the industrial age, when we were coming out of the depths of the Little Ice Age where harsh winters froze the Thames and caused untold deaths. Trying to prove man-made global warming by comparing the well-known fact that today's temperatures are warmer than during the Little Ice Age is akin to comparing summer to winter to show a catastrophic temperature trend. [10] Paleoclimate scientist Bob Carter had shown through his research at University of East Angila in the United Kingdom that the Climate Change increase had actually froze from 1998-2006 showing that this so called Global Warming had actually stopped. [11] Sources 1. (http://cdiac.ornl.gov...) 2. (http://volcanoes.usgs.gov...) 3. (http://www.geocraft.com...) 4. (http://www.drroyspencer.com...) 5. (http://joannenova.com.au...) 6. (http://www.cnsnews.com...) 7. (http://newsbusters.org...) 8. (http://newsbusters.org...) 9. (http://www.geocraft.com...) 10. (http://www.epw.senate.gov...) 11. ( http://www.telegraph.co.uk...)"	CON	124
124	S70cb061-Aa4f03ede	Man-Made global warming exists* and poses a serious threat to humanity.	"Conclusion Final Defences (A) Climate sensitivity My opponent attempts to prove that the climate sensitivity is exaggerated, but gives no sources to suggest that climate sensitivity is really exaggerated the way he explains. The source I cited is written by an environmental scientist, who has posted the calculations on how he calculated climate sensitivity. He dismisses them by pointing to the cambrian era, but this is not an acceptable rebuttal. Climate sensitivity is not static. The cambrian era likely had a lower level of climate sensitivity. (B) Man Made CO2 I've stated that CO2 ""tips the pot"" and proved it. Con cedes this. Con says that I agree that CO2 does nothing. This is not true. In my previous arguments, I've stated that although CO2 does have a low GWP, doesn't mean that it is non-existent. My point is not begging the question, as I have argued a point of instigation: when man emitted large volumes of CO2. The majority of CO2 and other misc. GHGS that remain in the atmosphere are man-made, as I proved in my R4 argument. The GWP of CO2 in particular may be low, but it still has GWP. Every fraction of a degree that the temp is raised by CO2 further accelerates the global warming effect by reducing the oceans ability to absorb CO2 (as I stated in my R4 argument). My opponents points, when freshly cross examined with my previous points, can be seen as invalid. Con cedes that Man-made CO2 emissions disrupt the CO2 cycle. This disproves his point regarding the cambrian era (as man was not present, the CO2 cycle would have been in balance). Con cedes that warming oceans have lessened ability to absorb CO2, but claims that this point is begging the question. Pro proves that that point is not begging the question, as the initial warming is instigated by the CO2 (and other GHGs) that man emits that disrupt the natural cycle. The correlation isn't low, as con states. The earth is warming, directly after man disrupts the CO2 cycle. Con may dismiss scientific consensus as an appeal to authority, but it can be argued that if literally thousands of expert climatologists are in agreement that there is sufficient evidence to say that man-made global warming is significantly changing the environment, then they are probably correct. C) Trees Con cedes that Older trees more efficiently absorb CO2, than younger trees. Forward this point. D) Warming Oceans Con attempts to disprove this point simply by saying "" once the extremely hot Summer season hits the ocean, it would never end."" But this is simply forced misinterpretation of how the ocean is affected by the world temperature. One hot summer does not warm the ocean sufficiently to see a drastic change in its ability to absorb, as the entire planet is hot during one regions summer. Only global rising averages really shift the temperature of the ocean. ""Assume it takes 4c... It would take 666 years to reach that, as it took 134 years to see temperature increase by 0.85c."" This is an interesting point made by con, but totally fails to account for temperature acceleration. This point is only true if one assumes that the rate at which temperature changes is always constant. If one looked at the 134 year period he mentions, you would see that the rate of warming accelerated, and was fastest during the latter portion. Final Statements My opponents final argument has boiled down to essentially 2 points. 1) CO2 has a low GWP 2) The cambrian era had a ton of CO2, but wasn't as hot as it ""should"" have been. Both points are easily rebutted by my previous arguments. Point one is rebutted in that I have proved that although CO2 has a low GWP, doesn't mean that it is negligable. I have proved previously that any amount of warming caused by CO2 has the potential to accelerate out of control. Point two is rebutted by my climate sensitivty argument, and my carbon cycle argument. It is rebutted by my climate sensitivity argument, in that the cambrian era likely had lower sensitivity. It is rebutted by my CO2 cycle argument, in that the cambrian era CO2 cycle was not disrupted by unnatural interference. Note: These are cross-examinations, not new rebuttals. These are the points ceded by Con. -Man made GHGs disrupt the natural cycle of GHG emissions and absorbtion. -Man made GHGs remain in the atmosphere, unlike natural GHGs, and can build up in the atmosphere, therefore significantly contributing to the greenhouse effect. -Deforestation contributes significantly to the reduction of the natural absorbtion of GHGs. -When the ocean warms, its ability to absorb CO2 is reduced. -Therefore, warming from CO2 (among other GHGs) has the potential to accelerate the greenhouse effect. Con has zero assertions standing in his argument. The Pro has a multitude of points that all indicate that man is significantly contributing to global warming. The evidence for Pro is overwhelming. The scientific backing is solid. That is the reason why environmental scientists have come to the census that they did. Con has no argument."	PRO	125
125	Saa3d5131-Ae1b323e8	Mankind Is Not the Main Cause of Global Warming	"This is going to be one debate in a project I have devised to decide on the global warming issue once and for all - I will take the pro side in one debate, the con side in another debate, and make my decision from there. Part I - Take the side against global warming. Tylergraham95 is a really good debater, especially on global warming, and I'm sure this will be a great first debate. Full Resolution I will be arguing that mankind is the not main cause of global warming. We will not be arguing if global warming exists or not, it will be assumed that it does; only if global warming has an anthropogenic cause. BoP is shared. Definitions Mankind: ""The human race; human beings collectively without reference to sex; humankind.""[1] Main: ""Chief in size, extent, or importance; principal; leading;""[2] Cause: ""A person or thing that acts, happens, or exists in such a way that some specific thing happens as a result; the producer of an effect.""[3] Global Warming: ""Global warming is the rise in the average temperature of Earth's atmosphere and oceans since the late 19th century, and its projected continuation.""[4] Rules 1. The first round is for acceptance. 2. A forfeit or concession is not allowed. 3. No semantics, trolling, or lawyering. 4. All arguments must be visible inside this debate. Sources may be posted in an outside link. 5. Debate resolution, definitions, rules, and structure cannot be changed without asking in the comments before you post your round 1 argument. Debate resolution, definitions, rules, and structure cannot be changed in the middle of the debate. Voters, in the case of the breaking of any of these rules by either debater, all seven points in voting should be given to the other person."	PRO	126
126	S66bd9128-Ac1b26124	Mankind Is the Main Cause of Global Warming	"Thank you Con for this debate. Solar Activity (SA) Contrary to what Con claims, the intensity of the Sun has dipped (16) Of particular import are these parts: ""It is curious that the theory depends so much on sparse information "" what we know about the climates on other planets and their history "" yet its proponents resolutely ignore the most compelling evidence against the notion. Over the last fifty years, the sun""s output has decreased slightly: it is radiating less heat. We can measure the various activities of the sun pretty accurately from here on Earth, or from orbit above it, so it is hard to ignore the discrepancy between the facts and the sceptical argument that the sun is causing the rise in temperatures. ... Pluto: the warming exhibited by Pluto is not really understood. Pluto""s seasons are the least understood of all: its existence has only been known for a third of its 248 -year orbit, and it has never been visited by a space probe. The ""evidence"" for climate change consists of just two observations made in 1988 and 2002. That""s equivalent to observing the Earth""s weather for just three weeks out of the year."" In addition, let's consider the Sun's intensity in the variation of the ""brightness"", it's nonetheless too small to account for the earth's recent warming (17), measuring at only 0.1% over an 11 year solar cycle: "" ""The small measured changes in solar output and variations from one decade to the next are only on the order of a fraction of a percent, and if you do the calculations not even large enough to really provide a detectable signal in the surface temperature record,"" said Penn State meteorologist Michael Mann."" According to NCDC, the earth's base temperature, without greenhouse warming is 0""F, or -18""C. The amount of warming due to GH effect at ~1900C.E. is 57""F (32""C) (18). There has been a .74""C increase in temp over 110 years, and is rising at the rate of .13 , or 1.56""C/century recently: ""Global surface temperatures have increased about 0.74""C (plus or minus 0.18""C) since the late""19th century, and the linear trend for the past 50 years of 0.13""C (plus or minus 0.03""C) per decade is nearly twice that for the past 100 years. The warming has not been globally uniform. Some areas (including parts of the southeastern U.S. and parts of the North Atlantic) have, in fact, cooled slightly over the last century. The recent warmth has been greatest over North America and Eurasia between 40 and 70""N. Lastly, seven of the eight warmest years on record have occurred since 2001 and the 10 warmest years have all occurred since 1995."" The percent change in temperature over the last 110 years is .74""C/32""C = +2.3%, and the change in solar radiance has increased (19): ""Since the late 1970s, the amount of solar radiation the sun emits, during times of quiet sunspot activity, has increased by nearly .05 percent per decade, according to a NASA funded study."" The extrapolated amount of change in solar radiance in the last 110 years is + .55%. The ratio of change of temperature to the rate of change of solar radiance is 2.3%/.55% = 4.2 times as fast. Not only that, but the rate of change of temperature is increasing. Now compare these two graphs, the first is the changes to solar radiance over the last 150 years (20), and then the temperature change(21). The SR baseline is flat and the TC baseline is rising, thus, solar output and global temp over a 150 year period shows no correlation, and there is a 4.2 times greater increase in TC than solar output. So SR can, at most, only account for less than 25% of the total increase in temperature over the last 110 years. Troposphere Temperature and Cooling (TT) (TC) On the subject of the troposphere, I will point out that the TT decreases with altitude. With a more energetic dynamic occurring in the troposphere due to heating, or overall energy increase, the higher and lower altitude air will mix more and the resultant surface temps will appear cooler even though the overall heat content of the troposphere has increased! On Con's source 6 (which, incidentally, comes from a denier site), please observe Con's accompanying graph the length of line the ""cooling"" is based on. The overall graph shows data consistent with longer term warming. By taking the shorter time frame that the author does (11 years), the graph can be interpreted, for the years 1979 "" 1989, to show an even more dramatic cooling effect, even though the long term trend including that time frame is warming. Ten years or so, periods are not relevant, contrary to what the author tries to show. Another method of TC is by the energy expended in increasingly energetic storm systems. These systems have a net cooling effect on the troposphere, as explained in Con's very own [6]: ""I have to wonder whether the atmosphere is currently in a destabilized state. I doubt that surface temperatures anomalies are as anomalously low as the mid-troposphere temperatures are running, which in combination with anomalously cold mid- and upper-tropospheric temperatures means there is extra energy available for storms. "" Oceans and PDO Con claims the oceans are losing heat and that the PDO is ""in a cool cycle"". However, this is due to an unusually intense el Nino in 1998, which produced the overall heating, as there is a great lag effect to el Nino of several years. Of course there is cooling as the ocean returns to homostasis. Furthermore, Con's ""Examiner"" link that he uses to support his claim is extremely suspect, because the whole report is not included in the link Con gives, and leaves out the part where the author of the research doesn""t claim the cooling is long term, but is a possible short term anomaly, and also the author of the Examiner article fudged and discarded data that did not fit his hypothesis. To quote a comment from said article: ""I couldn""t help but notice that your article follows the NASA article almost exactly (though not literally copying from it) and the graphs on your article are also present in the NASA article. But the strange thing is "" besides some misquoting, ie Takmong Wong never said the cooling could be due to melting Arctic sea ice "" that you don""t finish the story that it turned out there was a problem with the measurements and thus there was no global cooling. You just leave the most important thing out!"" As pointed out earlier in my R3, Con has relied on confirmed climate deniers who aren't even climatologists and also is guilty of relying on outdated data, as BobC also points out about the Examiner article in the sixth comment down. La Nina has been the influence for ocean cooling since 2006 (22), which paints a considerably different picture on Con's argument. Notice that el Nino didn""t return until 2009, and is not included in Con's studies which only date UP TO 2009. Also note that whatever the ocean temps, it is a red herring. The global temps are still increasing dramatically, and furthermore, no one knows what affects ocean temperatures reliably. On a side note, the author of this article that Con links to for his ocean temperature arguments ALSO predicted that Arctic ice levels would begin to increase, based on his interpretation of the ocean temp papers. His predictions were wrong. What does that tell us about the veracity of his ocean temp arguments? Conclusion That humans are the main cause of global warming is overwhelmingly evident, and SA alone isn't enough. Sources: (16) http://www.skepticalscience.com... (17) http://www.livescience.com... (18) http://www.ncdc.noaa.gov... (19) http://www.nasa.gov... (20) http://www.nasa.gov... (21) http://www.ncdc.noaa.gov... (22) http://en.wikipedia.org..."	PRO	127
127	S61b46552-A34159aee	Anthropogenic global climate change.	I accept the debate rules, as well as the given definition.	CON	128
128	S7f312d2e-A4703e946	Global Warming is killing us	The climate change that is happening from the past decades and the effects that grow rapidly in the present are quite alarming to many people. People need to commence their action upon this disaster on earth as it will affect ourselves more dangerously in the following years to come in the sense of losing family members, dealing with the sudden failure or loss in business and economics, and also to face the radical changes in the weather patterns around the world. The failure in proceeding the plans on dealing with the climate change complication would not only make ourselves living in a consistent misfortune of disaster but also would make the world a worse place for many beautiful creatures in the future decades that will approach. This is not the end of the world, yet we had brought ourselves to the edge of death in a highly disrespectful manner. The Greenland Ice Core Project (GRIP) studies and researches found that ice cores are able to provide the scientists with multiple informations regarding the climate change. The drilling of the ice and the analyzation from the dust and air bubbles contained in the atmospheric gases provide the scientists the temperature record in which will be graphed for future studies and response. This evidence proves how our climate changes and how the temperature on earth is getting warmer compared to billion years ago.	PRO	129
129	S39f3ff96-A170346c3	Global warming is likely (and mostly) anthropogenic	Correlation and Causation My opponents main argument is that correlation is not equal to causation, and I totally agree. However, some degree of correlation is needed to prove causation. The more robust the correlation, the more likely some causation exists. I have provided a large amount of data, simplified and shortened, which shows an excellent correlation between carbon dioxide and CO2 based on academic studies. Now, in science, many correlations have become nearly accepted facts. For example, enough data has been found showing that smoking causes cancer [1], based on correlations. Now, if we look at the raw data we could argue warming causes the CO2 increase (which is what my opponent argues later). And, looking at the raw data, cancer may cause smoking. The question is if these correlations hold up to scrutiny. My opponent then cites co2science.org noting that CO2 lags temperature. Whether or not it is true, looking at these paleoclimatology correlations partially proves AGW. So, lets assume CO2 actually does lag temperature. This does not disqualify CO2 as a driver, even a large driver, for climate change. Now, in the last 100,000 years the warming phases last around 5000 years (we are in one nowand have been for a few thousand years). The CO2 lag is only 800 years long. The lag ignores one important point: [a]ll that the lag shows is that CO2 did not cause the first 800 years of warming, out of the 5000 year trend. The other 4200 years of warming could in fact have been caused by CO2, as far as we can tell from this ice core data.[2] Even if we assume CO2 didnt cause the rest of that warming, this still does not disqualify its ability to be an amplifier [3]. For 600,000 years Co2 has not been at the levels it has been today [4]. So, since the amount of CO2 is much larger now than it was throughout most interglacials, we can easily argue this current warm period has made this amplifier stronger than it has ever been. At least, for 600,000 years. 2. Oceans cause the CO2 rise? This is highly unlikely. Unless my opponent agrees this warming is unprecedented (which kind of concedes the debate for him) it is hard to say oceans can cause record CO2 levels. There are two strong lines of evidence against this: First, O2 is decreasing in the atmosphere. If the Ocean is emitting CO2, the amount of O2 would not decreasebut CO2 levels would still rise. Cars, however, use oxygen in their fuel systems and burn out Carbon Dioxide. The fact O2 is falling shows something that uses O2 is causing this decreasewhich is most likely not a natural source. Second, the known fossil fuel burning easily fulfills the amount of CO2 increase. CO2 increases every year about 16 billion tonnes per year. Humans, on average, emit 30 billion tonnes of CO2. Half of our CO2 is soaked up by oceans (yes, they have stored CO2). So, unless nature through some other mechanism can soak up nearly all of our emissions, it is unlikely the ocean plays a larger role than man in the increase in CO2 [5]. Another line of evidence is the temperature itself. The temperature increase is erratic because natural factors (mainly, PDO and volcanoes) play short term roles in our climate. The CO2 increase is fairly linear, non-erratic, and consistent [6]. If the Ocean emits CO2 due to temperature increases, we should see some large variation, then, if the ocean is the cause. Even if it is not as great as the temperature fluctuation. We have not seen this variation if we are to expect a natural cause emitting most of the modern CO2. My opponent has provided insight opposing my amplifier argument under #1. A new paper by Shakun et al. 2012 has found CO2 often leads temperature, and ended the ice age (was a leading factor in its end), and amplified and sometimes controlled warming and cooling in our current interglacial [7]. And the fact CO2 has warming properties as a greenhouse gas [8], saying it has no effect, or no amplification, is unbelievable. 3. Past climate I agree that climate has changed, will change, and is changing. I will not, and can not, deny this. But saying climate has changed does not tell me why it has changed. One study pointed out, Correlation of CO2 levels with estimates of palaeoclimate suggests that the atmospheric greenhouse effect has been a major factor in controlling global climate over the past 600 million years.[9] If anything, the paleoclimatology merely shows and proves that greenhouse gases control and amplify past warmings. And, I would like to note, the study cited has a longer time frame then any of my opponents graphs Further, the warming in my opponents graph, the medieval warm period, has been exaggerated and was a local phenomenon. The current warm period out paces the MWP and has increased to temperatures exceeding the warmth 1000 years ago [10]. The fact climate has changed does not tell me, or the voters, why it has changed. Only that is has done so. There is no reason to believe the drivers can change (it is arguable that the sun, PDO or AMO, and greenhouse gases) could have caused different warmings. There is a large amount of evidence that CO2 causes the current warming, and even played a significant role in the past. 4. The sun My opponent provided no substance in his argument. He says sunspots influence warmingI agree. But the sun has not been proven to affect the current warm period. My opponent merely asserts that it does. Until he gives evidence for this point, it is not significant. All he shows is a graph of past climates, not solar irradiance, cosmic ray counts, etc. Solar irradiance reconstructions show the forcing of greenhouse gases is much stronger than the sun [11]. The Stanford Solar Center has shown that the suns intensity has actually slightly lowered since the 60s, and the sunspots show little change. Whereas the temperature has increased [12]. CONCLUSION My opponent has failed to demonstrate a link between solar activity and temperature for the modern era and has also failed to decouple CO2 and temperature. His lag theory has been refuted, and the fact that the CO2 increase is mostly anthropogenic is something skeptics even agree on. Past climate, too, seems to prove AGW and does not refute the presumption that humans cause the current warm period. 1. http://tinyurl.com...; 2. http://tinyurl.com...; 3. http://tinyurl.com...; 4. http://tinyurl.com...; 5. http://tinyurl.com... 6. http://tinyurl.com...; 7. http://tinyurl.com...; 8. http://tinyurl.com...; 9. http://tinyurl.com...; 10. http://tinyurl.com...; 11. http://tinyurl.com...; 12. http://tinyurl.com...	PRO	130
130	S7f312d2e-A31e5ba05	Global Warming is killing us	Let it be known that the affirmation side in this debate failed to refute any of my eight critical points that I made during the first round of the debate: But anyway, my opponent brings up data claiming the fact that the Earth is currently warmer than it was a BILLION years ago. Considering that in the last billion years, multicellular life began, multicellular life left the seas and came upon land, the dinosaurs lived and died, and we net through two ice ages, using that range for data does not get any point whatsoever across. Humans have adapted and lived through about 500 centuries of varying climates and animals surrounding us. Global warming and cooling has occurred at periodic levels throughout the history of planet Earth. We adapted then, and this was far before the massive technological achievement that mankind has attained in recent history. When nature tries to hit us, we hit back harder. My opponent also fails to provide any evidence of climate change affecting the ownership and operation of modern business and how exactly the warming of the globe will affect these corporate institutions. The opponent also cites an increase of tsunamis due to warming temperatures, but this is simply impossible, considering that a tsunami is formed by a geological event and not one of climatical origins. I urge a negative vote in this debate.	CON	131
131	S70cb061-Ac25715f4	Man-Made global warming exists* and poses a serious threat to humanity.	Final Defense: Defense 1: Global Warming Potential of CO2 The Global Warming Potential of CO2 is, simply said, weak. So weak that it does little to affect Global Temperatures even with massive sums of it in the air. Despite how focused we are on CO2, it simply isn't as big a deal to the environment, and history backs this up. At 400 PPM at the present, this should be the hottest Global Warming cycle of all time, but it is the coldest. The two don't correlate well enough. CO2 rises with temperature, but temperature doesn't really rise well with it. Temperatures are actually low. Through out history, CO2 will correlate when temperatures rose, but temperatures didn't follow well when CO2 rose, often well under the CO2 count of that era. This is for the same reason that today is colder than any other Global Warming Cycle. The effect CO2 has on Global Warming is minimal at most, and not qualified as a *threat to humanity*. With a GWP of only 1, history emphasizes the weakness of the gas, while people exaggerate the strength of it. At only 3.6% of the total GWP effect, and humans at only 0.117% of that, human emissions are not a threat to the planet. Defense II: Other Gases and Earth's Sensitivity. All other human emissions are greatly small in comparison to CO2, even with higher Global Warming Potentials. F-gases and other poisonous substances we throw into the air have massive GWPs, but are so small in number, that all put together still only effects 0.072% of the total Greenhouse Effect, and human's are responsible for only 0.047% of that. The gases, all together, contribute only 2% of what CO2 does, and since the evidence and history shows CO2 does little, we can only assume our other gases do much less. Earth's Sensitivity is high, but it is gravely exaggerated upon. History shows that, specifically the Cambrian Era. If Earth's Sensitivity was as high as people claim, and 400 PPM CO2 or anything close to it could cause a major snowballing effect, we would have seen it there. At 7000 ppm, the Cambrian Era should have snowballed into temperatures we can't measure on conventional thermostats. And the sea level would have been well below ours, not 30-90 meters above. The Snowballing effect simply isn't there, not for CO2 at least. A) Deforestation Deforestation does release a lot of CO2, but this CO2 isn't hidden from view, it is accounted for in every measurement I made. Having done the math, Total CO2 consumption from trees we replant over the next 88 years is well above 3x the amount we produce through deforestation based on an average annual consumption per tree... Even if CO2 Consumption was half as effective the whole of the next 88 years, we would still see it 100 gigatons above emissions (a decrease of 213 ppm worth, or 850 ppm at the original measurements). Defense III: Global Warming Cycle The past millions of years have seen a continuous cycle of Global Warming. Each one hotter than today's, despite lower CO2 emissions. Assuming Humans are responsible for Global Warming is more Post Hoc, since our emissions are minimal in effect. This Global Warming Cycle has been going on long before human's began throwing out emissions, and CO2 has been rising since 9,000 years ago. That being said, it's more likely that natural CO2 emissions having been growing as well, otherwise CO2 ppm should have been going down until the Industrial Age. Assuming CO2 causes most Global Warming is ignorant of the history of Global Warming, where high amounts of CO2 never correlated well with equally high temperature, as is the same today. At least, not in a way that supports the notion that CO2 plays a major part in increasing temperatures. The Global Warming Cycle in the past 400,000 years has never seen CO2 PPM this high before, being 25% higher than any other example. Temperature is, however, the coldest. This is because CO2 has never been a major part of Global Warming. Correlating with it, but not causing it. The Global Warming Cycle of the past 400,000 years prove this, as well as Global Warming in the deep past. In the Cambrian Era and Mesozoic Era, CO2 was wildly above ours, but temperature was't proportionately as high. The Current Global Warming cycle is entirely natural. Looking back at the charts, we should be in a warming cycle. Saying Global Warming is mostly man-made is ignorant of the fact that this cycle looks just like every cycle. Final Conclusion: Human emissions contribute little to Global Warming, which is evident in how cold our current cycle is. CO2 has never increased temperatures to any proportionate amount, and the Earth Snowball-Sensitive effect just isn't present in any historical data. Pro has dropped the case of CO2 consumption from tree replanting. I have proven how: CO2 has a minimal effect, even when compiled. Deforestation isn't nearly the issue it's exageratted to be. The Earths Sensitivity isn't nearly intense enough to cause a massive Snow-balling effect. We are colder than any other Warming Period. How natural Global Warming is. I have proven that CO2. and man-made gases, simply contributes little to nothing, as history and even today's chart prove. Thank you for this debate, Pro.	CON	132
132	Se4d5d288-A8bf783ec	Global Warming is Largely Man-Made	"Contention 1: No Major/any CO2 Increase. Many Global Warming advocates state that CO2 levels are skyrocketing, but that is incorrect. I give you the above graph measuring the past 600 million years of CO2 levels are we are actually at an all time low. Now the website I got this from no longer has this page up so I appologize. We can see from observance of this graph that we being at all time CO2 low levles that we are nowhere close to meeting the impact that my opponent brings up. We have been over 5,000 ppm of CO2 in our atmosphere and are now currently around apprx. 350 ppm CO2 levels. The above graph shows that comparisions of C13 (Carbon isotope) and this shows that there is little to no trend pertrade in many of these as the average is zero while the trend for all of these are zero. (1) This is important as the Carbon isotope is important in measuring this so called ""Global Warming."" This chart above shows the CO2 and Earth's temperatures for the past 600 million years. My opponent's claims are incorect as we have had aburd levels of CO2 and temperature on Earth and may I ask how did we survive that? (2) Now I will move on to how Earth is actually cooling and how it's temperature is cooler than it has been. Contention 2: Earth is cooling. If we observe the above graph we can see that Earth has been a whole lot hotter than where we currently are to the point where the Earth's average temperature has been 7.5 degrees Celcuis hotter than it currently it is. You can also see that in the span of the past 10,000 years the temperature has leveld off, but you may ask yourself where does that place us in the lights of modern day? I am going to site Dr. Done Easterbrook, who is a climate scientist. Back in 2000 he predicted that Earth was entering a cooling phase. He predicts that for the next 20 years Earth will cool by 3/10 degree each year and that we are going to enter another little Ice Age like we did from 1650 and 1790. (3) The funny thing is that many of my opponent's charts are actually from the incorrect IPPC. How about the ""Hockey Stick"" graph that many Global Warming supporters , including my opponent, argue about? Well if we observe the fallowing chart taken from Northern Scandenavia we can see that the Global trend over the past 1,000 years that the Global Cooling trend slope is that of -0.31 Degrees Celcuis, give or take 0.03 degrees (for the error room). Professor Dr. Jan Esper has found that the Earth's temperature of Earth actually decreases 0.3 per millenia due to the Earth moving away from the sun. (4) Here is another graph from 1920 to 2005 and we can see that the graph has a negative temperature slope, thus meaning that the Earth is under a period of cooling. (5) You can see in terms of more Warming in the evidence in which Scientists use Ice Cores Earth has actually been Cooling the past Mellenium. Finailly, lets bring up just how much these accused compounds exactly warm the Earth's atmosphere. CO2 for example has the global warming potential of 1. Here are the other numbers. Carbon Dioxide -- 1 Methane -- 21 Nitrous Oxide -- 298-310 CFC's -- Various Water Vapor -- 0.25 Now I just want you to keep this in mind for this next part here. We may observe that humans release approximately 35 gigatons of CO2 a year. [14] This is only 4.3% of the total amount of all Global Warming Gasses, however it is incrediably small when it comes to comparing the rest of the Global Warming gasses. If we observe the chart bellow we can see that Water Vapor is a large Contributor to Global Warming at 95% and CO2 comes in second. But here's the kicker. If we look at the Human contributed part that I'm about to post in the graph bellow we can see that it's very miniscule of 0.117% of all total Warming gasses. Now let's do some quick math here. CO2's increase was from what my opponent is claiming is from 295 ppm to 400ppm, a total of only 105 ppm. 1 Gigaton of CO2 is the equilivent of 2.13 ppm. [15] This means that increase of 105 ppm means a total of 49.29 gigatons. Since 1 gigaton of CO2 is the equivilance of .004% of the Greenhouse effect that means that 49.29 gigatons means an aditional .21% increase to Global Warming. This would account for a grand total of a 0.15 F increase in global temperature. This is a very measly amount and we can see that with my opponent's claims a simple 0.15 F increase isn't enough to melt glacers and have the effeccts that he is speaking of and it proves that this is NAUTRAL not man-made to fulfil his effects if they were real. Now remind yourself that this debate is about humans creating a LARGE amount of Global Warming, not a miniscule amount. You can see that in terms of Gasses contribution to the Green House Effect the major contributer is Water Vapor and it's at 95% to CO2's 3.6% and this is the overall contribution including man made and natural. When we look to the chart on the left we can see that Man-Made CO2 does have a higher contribution to the atmosphere than Water Vapor, but that's because we do not create much water vapor as humans. Even with this evidence we can see that CO2 does not have any effect what-so-ever compared to Water Vapor. (6) Where might those CFCs be on this graph you may ask. Why it's under the Misc. gases section. Contention 3: Artic Ice. Al Gore stated that the Artic Ice would be completely melted by 2014, but he is incorrect then and now. Jan. 6, 2012: The Coast Guard Cutter Healy breaks ice around the Russian-flagged tanker Renda 250 miles south of Nome. The Healy is the Coast Guards only currently operating polar icebreaker. The vessels are transiting through ice up to five-feet thick in this area. The 370-foot tanker Renda will have to go through more than 300 miles of sea ice to get to Nome, a city of about 3,500 people on the western Alaska coastline that did not get its last pre-winter fuel delivery because of a massive storm. (7) Let's go back to 2007-2008 and see if his claim was justified in the Artic Ice activity. Hmmm... It seems that he is incorrect, but let's look further into the near past. How about 2012-2013? (8) We all remember the Climate Scientists that got stuck in Arctic Ice Earlier last year correct? Then a Russian Ice Breaker tried to free them, but got stuck. Can you guess what they were studying? They had predicted that all the Arctic Ice had melted due to Global Warming and that Earth would get flooded massively. Boy were they wrong. (9) (10) Dr. Koonin, former head of the Department of Energy under President Obama, has stated that the Global Warming scare is not suttle. This is because that he has found 3 things wrong and highly incorrect about the scare. 1. Shrinking of Artic Sea ice doesn't acount for the gaining of the Antartic ice. 2. The warming of Earth's temps today is the same as it was 30 years ago. 3. The sea levels rose at the same height and rate in the 20th cenury. (11) Contention 4: Sea Levels Here is another corralation that must happen. If the Ice Caps are completely melted as many GW advocates claim then the sea level would have risen completely drowning tons of land. The graph above is raw satellite image data of the sea level rise over an 8 year period showing that there is little to no change in the Sea Levels rising. (12) The sea level rises, on average, about 3 inches per century and it has been found to not even been rising at all. This graph is the sea levels off the cost of French Guyana which is one of the areas which is predicted to be flooded due to Global Warming, but as you can see by the graph (which goes to 2008) the sea level is currently on a downward trend. (13) The source is the PDF within the link. Contention 5: The Weather Many Global Warming Advocates claim that Hurricanes are increasing due to Global Warming, but this claim is indeed false! The hurricanes since the year 1900 to 2008 have actually been decreasing. The slope of this downward slope is .0016. Though it is small the hurricanes are still in a downward trend. As a matter of fact not only are Hurricanes on a downward trend, but they are at an all time low as in the year 2010, there was only 68 Hurricanes Globally, which is an all time low in the past 40 years. How about Tornados you may ask? In the graph above you can see that tornados are at an all time low in the past 60 years! (14) But what about Hurricanes? Here is a graph showing the number of days between hurricanes and this shows that the number of days between hurricanes is greatest at 76 days between hurricanes.The slope of this line is zero showing no trend of a massive storm increase. Sources 1. (http://www.drroyspencer.com...) 2. (http://www.sustainableoregon.com...) 3. (http://www.cnsnews.com...) 4. (http://newsbusters.org...) 5. (http://newsbusters.org...) 6. (http://www.geocraft.com...) 7. (http://www.thegatewaypundit.com...) 8. (http://ginacobb.typepad.com...) 9. (http://www.nytimes.com...) 10. (http://www.americasfreedomfighters.com...) 11. (http://joannenova.com.au...) 12. (http://scienceandpublicpolicy.org...) 13. (http://wattsupwiththat.com...) 14. (http://volcanoes.usgs.gov...) 15. (http://www.geocraft.com...)"	CON	133
133	Sa80b0a3-A804ceed0	Resolved: Human Activity Is a Significant Factor in Global Warming on Planet Earth.	I accept.	CON	134
134	S70f48902-Aac1aebc0	Mankind Is the Main Cause of Global Warming	Overviews OV1: Instead of rebutting my case, Pro has merely expanded on their own case in R2, contrary to the debate structure. Thus, I shall consider my case conceded via. concession by omission, and shall rebut Pros arguments from both R1 and R2 since theyre both part of their case. OV2: The R2 OV2 has been conceded by omission; thus, Pro must waive the final round to give us an equal # of rounds. R1) The idea of God Pro completely fails to establish a link with the idea of God. The idea of God is *irrelevant* to global warming, but Pro says global warming is a part of Gods plan, but the Bible doesnt mention global warming. Additionally, Pro has given us no reason to believe that God exists. I shall, instead, present arguments against the existence of God to refute this argument. a) Argument from Atemporal Minds P1: God is atemporal. P2: God has a mind. P3: Minds are processes and/or involve processes. P4: All processes are temporal. C1: An atemporal mind cannot exist. C2: Therefore, God cannot exist. P1 is true as God is transcendent, ergo external to the universe. Outside of the universe, and, thus, outside of the space-time continuum by definition, there is no time. Therefore, God has to be atemporal. P2 is true by definition, as God is intelligent. Intelligence is incoherent without a mind, ergo God has a mind/is a disembodied mind. P3 is accurate as we dont have a quantitative understanding of intelligence, which here requires a highly specific definition of intelligence, which must be a subjective property unless it has a process. Subjective properties are incoherent if paired with transcendence, thus intelligence has to be objective for the existence of God as a mind, ergo it must involve a process. To argue a mind is not a process is to also concede that the entity is static, and essentially non-causal, thus the mind must involve a process by definition. P4 follows as if time doesnt exist, then there will obviously be no arrow of time. An arrow of time is necessary for temporal passage. For something to coherently happen, there has to be time, thus all processes require an arrow of time to be coherent. b) Eternalism Another reason why the universe must be uncaused is the truth of eternalism. For something to come into being, there must be a state in time where it first doesnt exist [1]. Under eternalism change doesnt ontologically happen and therefore neither does causation [2]. In support of this, J.M.E. McTaggart writes, Changes must happen to the events of such a nature that the occurrence of these changes does not hinder the events from being events, and the same events, both before and after the change. Now what characteristics of an event are there which can change and yet leave the event the same event? (I use the word characteristic as a general term to include both the qualities which the event possesses, and the relations of which it is a term -- or rather the fact that the event is a term of these relations.) It seems to me that there is only one class of such characteristics -- namely, the determination of the event in question by the terms of the A series. [3] General relativity also yields eternalism, since it models time as a fourth dimension of space itself, allowing for the block universe theory to be likely true. Causality cannot be stressed on unless one assumes the presentism ontology of time, which is dubious in light of scientific discoveries supporting eternalism, especially special and general relativity. Many [scientists and philosophers] have argued against presentism on the grounds that presentism is incompatible with the theory of relativity. [4] In special relativity, each observer has their own plane of simultaneity, a small section of three-dimensional space where all events are simultaneous [5]. Special relativity suggests that the concept of simultaneity is not universal: according to the relativity of simultaneity, observers in different frames of reference can have different perceptions of whether a given pair of events happened at the same time or at different times, with there being no physical basis for preferring one frame's judgments over anothers. ... So, in special relativity there can be no physical basis for picking out a unique set of events that are all happening simultaneously in the present. [6] This entails eternalism. Experiments from quantum mechanics have also vindicated eternalism. Photons have been entangled through time [7]. An experimenter can choose to entangle photons even when they dont exist in the present anymore. Other experiments show time is an emergent phenomenon. An outside observer would view the universe as static [8]. There is reason to believe eternalism is true via. Gods nature. God is omniscient, he knows everything possible about the past, present and future. As philosopher David Kyle Johnson argues, for Gods knowledge to be true, there must be the event which makes it true [9]. Gods knowledge about something like, say, a cup on the table is made true by an existing cup on the table. If Gods knowledge had no truthmakers, then his knowledge would be false. What then, makes Gods knowledge about future or past events true? It would have to be the future or past event. However, since the future is causing Gods knowledge it must exist. If the future is non-existent, there are no properties about the future. Making it impossible for God to know anything about it. This entails the future must exist, as well as the past. Eternalism is therefore implied via. Gods omniscience. As we have shown above, eternalism and a caused universe cannot coexist. Thus, omniscience is incompatible with Gods own properties. Thus, God probably doesnt exist, and this argument is refuted. R2) Global warming is not proven Now, instead of questioning whether mankind causes global warming, Pro challenges whether global warming exists. There has been a rise in temperatures since the 19th century. The below graph shows the rise in average temperatures of the global land-sea mean [10]. According to the below graph, there has been a 0.8 degree C increase in overall global land-sea mean temperature [11]. I agree that consensus is not everything, but I have presented reliable evidence from positive feedbacks, atmospheric CO2 concentrations, CO2 climate sensitivity, and temperature rise, that global warming is primarily man-made. R3) Temperature is cold in some places With this rebuttal, I will address both the Cape Town argument and the argument from winter. The temperature being cool is irrelevant, since global warming only predicts a rise in temperature--the temperature in Cape Town would have been cooler than it is now prior to the 1970s, for instance. This is a graph documenting temperatures in Cape Town and Calvinia, from 1857 to 1999. As seen in the graph, the average temperature in Cape Town has risen from 16.5 degrees to 17.25 degrees, a rise by 0.75 degrees. R4) Scientists are all part of the Illuminati The Bavarian Illuminati was an Enlightenment-era secret society founded on May 1, 1776, and declined finally in 1787 [12]. Thus, the Illuminati doesnt exist today anymore. The resolution is resoundingly affirmed. 1. http://www.reasonablefaith.org... 2. http://plato.stanford.edu... 3. http://www.ditext.com... 4. http://people.biola.edu... 5. http://en.wikipedia.org... 6. http://en.wikipedia.org... 7. http://www.livescience.com... 8. http://medium.com... 9. http://journals.cambridge.org... 10. http://earthobservatory.nasa.gov... 11. http://data.giss.nasa.gov... 12. http://www.webcitation.org...	PRO	135
135	S66bd9128-A5ccfadc7	Mankind Is the Main Cause of Global Warming	"I would like to thank JonMilne for agreeing to this topic. Please read everything below before accepting. Full Resolution I will be arguing that mankind is the not main cause of global warming. We will not be arguing if global warming exists or not, it will be assumed that it does; only if global warming has an anthropogenic cause. BoP is shared. Definitions Mankind: ""The human race; human beings collectively without reference to sex; humankind.""[1] Main: ""Chief in size, extent, or importance; principal; leading;""[2] Cause: ""A person or thing that acts, happens, or exists in such a way that some specific thing happens as a result; the producer of an effect.""[3] Global Warming: ""Global warming is the rise in the average temperature of Earth's atmosphere and oceans since the late 19th century, and its projected continuation.""[4] Rules 1. The first round is for acceptance. 2. A forfeit or concession is not allowed. 3. No semantics, trolling, or lawyering. 4. All arguments must be visible inside this debate. Sources may be posted in an outside link. 5. Debate resolution, definitions, rules, and structure cannot be changed without asking in the comments before you post your round 1 argument. Debate resolution, definitions, rules, and structure cannot be changed in the middle of the debate. Voters, in the case of the breaking of any of these rules by either debater, all seven points in voting should be given to the other person."	CON	136
136	Sdc9f0311-A896d92f6	There is no anthropomorphic global warming	"""In your case, you argue that co2 is a green house gas and can be proven to be a warming agent. I do not disagree. Where I disagree is whether or not this co2 is causing today's warming. In most historical episodes of warming, co2 trails temperature. If it was a forcing agent, one would expect the exact opposite. Co2 has been much higher in the past and temperatures were lower: http://www.nolanchart.com...... ""In fact, 450 million years ago when we were in the depths of the coldest period the Earth has had in half a billion years, CO2 levels were 10 times above today's! Even using the last century as evidence for a dependent relationship is meaningless. 65% of the warming this century occurred in the first three decades, and then, while CO2 levels continued to rise, temperatures fell for four decades in a row."" ============================================================================== http://environment.newscientist.com... Ice cores from Antarctica indicate that at the end of recent ice ages, the concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere started to rise only after temperatures had begun to climb. There is uncertainty about the timings, in part because the air trapped in the cores is younger than the ice, but it appears the difference might at times have been 800 years or more. This shows that rising CO2 was not the trigger that caused the initial warming at the end of these ice ages  but no climate scientist has ever made this claim. It certainly does not challenge the idea that increases in CO2 heats the planet. CO2 is a greenhouse gas because it absorbs and emits frequencies of infrared radiation. Physics tells us that gases with this property trap heat radiating from the Earth, that the planet would be a lot colder if this effect was not real and that adding more CO2 to the atmosphere will trap even more heat. Furthermore, CO2 is just one of a group of greenhouses gases, and greenhouse gases are just one of many factors affecting the climate. There is no reason to expect a perfect correlation between CO2 levels and temperature in the past: if there is a big change in another climate ""factor"", the correlation will be hidden. It takes around 5000 years for an ice age to end and, after the initial 800 year lag, temperature and CO2 concentrations in the atmosphere rise together for a further 4200 years. What seems to have occurred at the end of recent ice ages, some factor - most likely orbital shifts - caused a rise in temperature. This led to an increase in CO2, resulting in further warming that caused more CO2 to be released and so on: a positive feedback that amplified a small change in temperature. At some point, the shrinking of the ice sheets further amplified the warming. Models indicate that rising greenhouse gases, including CO2, explains for about 40% of the warming as the ice ages ended. The figure is uncertain because it depends on how the extent of ice coverage changed over time, and there is no way to pin this down precisely. The ice ages show that temperature can determine CO2 as well as CO2 driving temperature. Sceptics - not scientists - have seized upon this idea and claim that the relation is one way, that temperature determines CO2 levels but CO2 levels do not affect temperature. Higher temperatures lead to more CO2 and more CO2 leads to higher temperatures. There are multiple limiting factors that kick in, the most important being that infrared radiation emitted by Earth increases exponentially with temperature, so as long as some infrared can escape from the atmosphere, at some point heat loss catches up with heat retention. To put it simply, we have altered the way natural feedbacks systems operate via the way we change the planet's surface and atmosphere. That is the difference to ""450 million years ago"". This is the error in your argument. You are basing climate change purely on CO2 entering the atmosphere. Climate change is vastly more complex than that, and human influence is equally more diverse than that simple aspect. However since your sole argument is based on CO2 we will continue. Ice cores show that carbon dioxide levels in the atmosphere have remained steady between 180 and 300 parts per million for the past half-a-million years. In recent centuries, however, CO2 levels have risen sharply, to at least 380 ppm. Human emissions of CO2 are small compared with natural sources. The fact that CO2 levels have remained steady until very recently indicates that natural emissions are usually balanced by natural absorptions. Now more CO2 must be entering the atmosphere than is being absorbed via carbon ""sinks"". The consumption of terrestrial vegetation by animals and by microbes (rotting) emits about 220 gigatonnes of CO2 every year, and respiration by vegetation emits another 220 Gt. These amounts are balanced by the 440 Gt of carbon dioxide absorbed from the atmosphere each year as land plants photosynthesise. Likewise, parts of the oceans release about 330 Gt of CO2 per year, depending on temperature and rates of photosynthesis by phytoplankton, but other parts usually soak up just as much and are now soaking up slightly more. Human emissions of CO2 are now estimated to be 26.4 Gt per year, up from 23.5 Gt in the 1990s http://www.ipcc.ch... So are we to blame for the CO2 increase? There are several lines of evidence. Fossil fuels were formed millions of years ago. Therefore they contain virtually no carbon-14. Because this unstable carbon isotope, formed when cosmic rays hit the atmosphere, it has a half-life of around 6000 years. So a dropping concentration of carbon-14 can be explained by the burning of fossil fuels. Studies of tree rings have shown that the proportion of carbon-14 in the atmosphere dropped by about 2% between 1850 and 1954. After this time, atmospheric nuclear bomb tests ruined this method by releasing large amounts of carbon-14. Additionally fossil fuels contain less carbon-13 than carbon-12, compared with the atmosphere. These fuels are derived from plants, which preferentially take up the more common carbon-12. The ratio of carbon-13 to carbon-12 in the atmosphere and ocean surface waters is steadily falling, clearly showing that more carbon-12 is entering the atmosphere. Frankly your argument so far is based solely on the link to CO2 and temperatures. CO2 is not the only greenhouse gas neither is fossil fuel burning the sole reason for their increase. Deforestation removes natural carbon sinks, draining swamps releases large amounts of stored CO2 and methane. Similarly greenhouse gases are not the sole reason climate change is occurring. Factors relate and feed off each other; warmer air, warmer ocean currents etc. CO2 feeds off temperature, temperature feeds off CO2. It is flawed to say that humans are the sole reason for climate change because clearly it plays to natural systems. It is equally mistaken however to say that humans have had no substantial impact at all. Which brings us to ""it is not true that anything that can cause warming is in fact causing current warming."" that being self refuting rubbish. Clearly it has a cause(s). Recommended: http://www.ipcc.ch..."	CON	137
137	S66bd90cb-A4a646820	Mankind Is the Main Cause of Global Warming	"You have asked to debate this first, so I am sending you the challenge directly. My last opponent on this subject forfeited, so I want to try this resolution again. Full Resolution: Mankind is the main cause of global warming. I, as con, will argue that it is of natural causes, not mankind. We will NOT be arguing if global warming exists or not, it will be assumed that it does. Only if global warming has an anthropogenic cause. Definitions: Mankind: ""The human race; human beings collectively without reference to sex; humankind.""[1] Main: ""Chief in size, extent, or importance; principal; leading;""[2] Cause: ""A person or thing that acts, happens, or exists in such a way that some specific thing happens as a result; the producer of an effect.""[3] Global Warming: ""Global warming is the rise in the average temperature of Earth's atmosphere and oceans since the late 19th century, and its projected continuation.""[4] Rules: 1. The first round is for acceptance. 2. A forfeit or concession is not allowed. 3. No semantics, lawyering, or trolling. 4. Debate resolution, definitions, rules, and structure can not be negotiated or changed in the middle of the debate. 5. In the case of the breaking of any of these rules, all seven points in voting should be given to the other person. Debate Structure: Round 1: Acceptance. Round 2: Presenting all arguments (no rebuttals by pro). Round 3: Refutation of opponent's arguments (no new arguments). Round 4: Defending you original arguments and conclusion (no new arguments). Sources: [1]:http://dictionary.reference.com... [2]:http://dictionary.reference.com... [3]:http://dictionary.reference.com... [4]:http://en.wikipedia.org..."	CON	138
138	Se62a5fda-A6311a25b	Official May Tournament Final: Global Warming	"Preface This is the Final debate of the Official May Regular Tournament [http://www.debate.org...] on solely highly controversial topics, hosted by Unitomic. On account of RoyalFlush100 and KingKD being inactive, Lannan and I are the only ones to pass Round 1 and Round 2, to go onto the Final. In Round 1, I defeated Mister_Man, while Varrack dropped out, to give Lannan a bye. In Round 2, both of us gained byes due to inactivity. Therefore, we are the last standing in the tournament. There is a minimum required Elo of 2500 to vote on this debate, with a 72 hour time period, 10,000 characters, and five rounds. I wish Lannan the best of luck, and thank Unitomic for the tournament! Full Topic On balance, mankind is probably the main cause of global warming. Terms All terms and definitions influenced by the Oxford Dictionary, the American Heritage Dictionary, Encyclopedia Britannica, Merriam-Webster, and Wikipedia. On Balance - 'when all factors are taken into consideration' Mankind - 'the human race; human beings collectively without reference to sex; humankind' Probably - 'is likely to take place or be true' Main - 'chief in size, extent or importance' Cause - 'the producer of an effect' or 'a person or thing that gives rise to an action, phenomenon, or condition' Global Warming - 'the rise in the average temperature of Earth's atmosphere and oceans since the late 19th century, and its projected continuation,' and 'the observed century-scale rise in the average temperature of the Earth's climate system and its related effects' Rules 1. No forfeits 2. All arguments must be within this debate, but sources can be in an external link directed to within this debate 3. No new arguments in the final round 4. Maintain a civil and decorous atmosphere 5. No trolling or deconstruction semantics 6. No ""kritiks"" of the topic (or any other ""kritiks"") 7. My opponent accepts all definitions and waives his/her right to add resolutional definitions 8. For all undefined terms, individuals should use commonplace understanding of them that fit within the logical context of the debate 9. The burden of proof is shared 10. The first round is for acceptance only 11. Violation of any of these rules or any of the R1 set-up is a conduct violation, and any violating arguments (e.g. ""kritiks,"" rebuttals in R4) should be discredited by judges Structure R1. Acceptance Only R2. Pro's Case, Con's Case R3. Pro rebuts Con's Case, Con rebuts Pro's Case R4. Pro defends Pro's Case, Con defends Con's Case R5. Pro rebuts Con's Case, Con rebuts Pro's Case, both Crystallize Thanks... ...again to Lannan13, and to Unitomic for organizing the tournament; I look forward to a truly stellar discourse!"	PRO	139
139	S9b3d820f-A995b0b92	Anthropogenic global warming is a threat	"Thanks for accepting. I did want arguments against GW to be posted in R1, but that's OK. BOP is shared. Here is the first 5 of ""10 Indicators of a Human Fingerprint on Climate Change""[1] 1.Humans are currently emitting around 30 billion tonnes of CO2 into the atmosphere every year[2]. Of course, it could be coincidence that CO2 levels are rising so sharply at the same time so let's look at more evidence that we're responsible for the rise in CO2 levels. 2.When we measure the type of carbon accumulating in the atmosphere, we observe more of the type of carbon that comes from fossil fuels [3]. 3.This is corroborated by measurements of oxygen in the atmosphere. Oxygen levels are falling in line with the amount of carbon dioxide rising, just as you'd expect from fossil fuel burning which takes oxygen out of the air to create carbon dioxide [4]. 4.Further independent evidence that humans are raising CO2 levels comes from measurements of carbon found in coral records going back several centuries. These find a recent sharp rise in the type of carbon that comes from fossil fuels [5]. 5.So we know humans are raising CO2 levels. What's the effect? Satellites measure less heat escaping out to space, at the particular wavelengths that CO2 absorbs heat, thus finding ""direct experimental evidence for a significant increase in the Earth's greenhouse effect"".[6][7] [1]http://www.skepticalscience.com... [2]http://cdiac.ornl.gov... [3]http://www.esrl.noaa.gov... [4]Ibid [5]http://www.sciencemag.org... [6]http://www.nature.com... [7]https://docs.google.com..."	PRO	140
140	S3b1f9ed6-Af182346d	Resolved: Man-made Global Warming Exists.	"Contention 1: No Major/any CO2 Increase. My opponent states that CO2 levels have never been this high, but that is incorrect. I give you the above graph measuring the past 600 million years of CO2 levels are we are actually at an all time low. Now the website I got this from no longer has this page up so I appologize. We can see from observance of this graph that we being at all time CO2 low levles that we are nowhere close to meeting the impact that my opponent brings up. We have been over 5,000 ppm of CO2 in our atmosphere and are now currently around apprx. 350 ppm CO2 levels. The above graph shows that comparisions of C13 (Carbon isotope) and this shows that there is little to no trend pertrade in many of these as the average is zero while the trend for all of these are zero. (http://www.drroyspencer.com...) This is important as the Carbon isotope is important in measuring this so called ""Global Warming."" This chart above shows the CO2 and Earth's temperatures for the past 600 million years. My opponent's claims are incorect as we have had aburd levels of CO2 and temperature on Earth and may I ask how did we survive that? (http://www.sustainableoregon.com...) Now I will move on to how Earth is actually cooling and how it's temperature is cooler than it has been. Contention 2: Earth is cooling. If we observe the above graph we can see that Earth has been a whole lot hotter than where we currently are to the point where the Earth's average temperature has been 7.5 degrees Celcuis hotter than it currently it is. You can also see that in the span of the past 10,000 years the temperature has leveld off, but you may ask yourself where does that place us in the lights of modern day? You can also see that Pro's graph is actually in the 500 to 10 thousand years before present and we can see that fallowing those trends that the temperature has actually leveled off. I am going to site Dr. Done Easterbrook, who is a climate scientist. Back in 2000 he predicted that Earth was entering a cooling phase. He predicts that for the next 20 years Earth will cool by 3/10 degree each year and that we are going to enter another little Ice Age like we did from 1650 and 1790. (http://www.cnsnews.com...) The funny thing is that many of my opponent's charts are actually from the incorrect IPPC. How about the ""Hockey Stick"" graph that many Global Warming supporters , including my opponent, argue about? Well if we observe the fallowing chart taken from Northern Scandenavia we can see that the Global trend over the past 1,000 years that the Global Cooling trend slope is that of -0.31 Degrees Celcuis, give or take 0.03 degrees (for the error room). Professor Dr. Jan Esper has found that the Earth's temperature of Earth actually decreases 0.3 per millenia due to the Earth moving away from the sun. (http://newsbusters.org...) Here is another graph from 1920 to 2005 and we can see that the graph has a negative temperature slope, thus meaning that the Earth is under a period of cooling. (http://blog.chron.com...) Contention 3: Artic Ice. First, I would like to state that Pro's claim about the North Pole completely melting is bogus. Al Gore stated that the Artic Ice would be completely melted by 2014, but he is incorrect then and now. Jan. 6, 2012: The Coast Guard Cutter Healy breaks ice around the Russian-flagged tanker Renda 250 miles south of Nome. The Healy is the Coast Guards only currently operating polar icebreaker. The vessels are transiting through ice up to five-feet thick in this area. The 370-foot tanker Renda will have to go through more than 300 miles of sea ice to get to Nome, a city of about 3,500 people on the western Alaska coastline that did not get its last pre-winter fuel delivery because of a massive storm. (http://www.thegatewaypundit.com...) Let's go back to 2007-2008 and see if his claim was justified in the Artic Ice activity. Hmmm... It seems that he is incorrect, but let's look further into the near past. How about 2012-2013? (http://ginacobb.typepad.com...) We all remember the Climate Scientists that got stuck in Arctic Ice Earlier this year correct? Then a Russian Ice Breaker tried to free them, but got stuck. Can you guess what they were studying? They had predicted that all the Arctic Ice had melted due to Global Warming and that Earth would get flooded massively. Boy were they wrong. (http://www.nytimes.com...) (http://www.americasfreedomfighters.com...) How about Al Gore. The man who brought Global Warming to our attention? In 2009, the man breaks down in tears stating how it's nothing, but hot air and how he fabricated everything just for the money! He said the arctic sheets are not melting and CO2 is not responsible for depletion of the Ozone. (http://www.thomaspeep.com...) Dr. Koonin, former head of the Department of Energy under President Obama, has stated that the Global Warming scare is not suttle. This is because that he has found 3 things wrong and highly incorrect about the scare. 1. Shrinking of Artic Sea ice doesn't acount for the gaining of the Antartic ice. 2. The warming of Earth's temps today is the same as it was 30 years ago. 3. The sea levels rose at the same height and rate in the 20th cenury. (http://www.newsmax.com...) Contention 4: Sea Levels Here is another corralation that must happen. If the Ice Caps are completely melted as Pro claims then the sea level would have risen completely drowning tons of land. The graph above is raw satellite image data of the sea level rise over an 8 year period showing that there is little to no change in the Sea Levels rising. (http://joannenova.com.au...) The sea level rises, on average, about 3 inches per century and it has been found to not even been rising at all. This graph is the sea levels off the cost of French Guyana which is one of the areas which is predicted to be flooded due to Global Warming, but as you can see by the graph (which goes to 2008) the sea level is currently on a downward trend. http://scienceandpublicpolicy.org...) The source is the PDF within the link."	CON	141
141	Sa50d3bff-A21ba5393	Resolved: Man-made Global Warming, on Planet Earth, Exists.	"Now, back onto the debate. ____________________________________________________________________________________ Thank you, lannan13, for that impressive response. Unfortunately, he has broken the rules by refuting my graphs and data I had put out in round 2: ""Round 2: Opening arguments and Constructive Case, NO REBUTTALS"" I'm not sure if I should let it slide since this seems like my most fun debate, so that will be up to my opponent. I will first focus on rebuttals, then my contentions. Note that counter-rebuttals are now switched to this round as my opponent refuted my graphs in round 2, thus I must respond to these refutations or otherwise they will be seen as dropped. ==Rebuttal 1: No Major/any Co2 increase== My opponent's graph is a graph of Co2 levels over the past 600 million years. In contrast, my graph is a graph on Co2 levels only throughout the past 650,000 years. My opponent's graph shows as time closes in on the present, the Co2 levels grow lower. However that is because we are looking at a much broader timeline and thus can't see all the needed details in the graph. Yes, we are at an all time low, but that doesn't mean Co2 levels aren't increasing [1]: I would like to point out that global warming doesn't mandate warming all throughout Earth's life. Global Warming happens anytime when Earth's temperature substantially increases, and that is what is happening. If Co2 levels are increasing, mainly due to human activity, and Earth's temperature rises at the same rate at the same time, then we already have good evidence man-made global warming exists. Also, it seems that my opponent uses a graph by Robert Berner. It is known that Berner's studies are very untrustworthy, especially this one. You can see in the following graph that his graph contains many errors [2]: ""History of Atmospheric CO2 through geological time (past 550 million years: from Berner, Science,1997)... The shaded area encloses the approximate range of error of the modeling based on sensitivity analysis..."" [2] My opponent then goes on to state that man-made global warming (or even global warming on general) does not exist simply because our Earth has been much hotter before, and then asks, ""may I ask how did we survive that?"" However this is a fallacy because: 1.) I had already stated that global warming does not mandate a warming all throughout Earth's life, and recently it has been increasing, even though if not by as much as older times. Also, under the circumstances, one degree is still quite substantial. 2.) We could not survive in those times as the human race had not even come to being, let alone the dinosaur race. Plus, the animals and forms of life during those times were specially adapted to the hot climate. Also, this is irrelevant as we are only debating the existence of man-made global warming, not if we are going to survive it. 3.) Because of the sun being dimmer than now, higher Co2 levels would be needed in order to keep the Earth at a bearable temperature, or else the Earth would literally freeze over. This contention is negated. ==Rebuttal 2: The Earth is Actually Cooling== Again, I must remind my opponent that global warming does not mandate warming throughout Earth's life. As you can see at the end of the graph, the temperature slightly increases back, thus proving global warming's existence, and, with the previous information I had given, man-made global warming as well. Just because the Earth has been hotter before doesn't mean it isn't warming again. When my opponent puts up his graph on the cooling of early 2000, again this is misleading, and Easterbrook's predictions have gone wrong from the first 10 years of data collected on the graph. Yet my opponent claims the IPCC studies are incorrect, which is untrue. The evidence is here [3]: Figure 5: Don Easterbrook's global temperature graphic presented during the 2010 Heartland conference. Then, down lower on the cited website [3], it is said: So while the IPCC TAR projection was too high by about 0.12C for the reasons discussed above [on cited website], Easterbrook's projections were too low by 0.28C and 0.58C. Despite all of these non-greenhouse gas factors acting in the cooling direction over this timeframe, the IPCC projection was still much closer to reality than Easterbrook's. [3] On my opponents next graph, he shows that each millennium the Earth cools down by 0.3 degrees Celsius (0.54 degrees Fahrenheit) due to Earths motion away from the Sun. However, the study was conducted only for the last 2 millennia, when most of the millennia were basically Industrial Revolution and modern activity free. The IR started in 1790 [4]. At the end of the graph, the global temperature abruptly rises above the red line even before 2000, thus proving the existence of global warming, and man-made global warming. This is the same for my opponents next two graphs. My opponents last graph focuses on the contribution of the Greenhouse gases, and states that the contributions are very low. However that does not negate the existence of global warming or man-made global warming, it simply states that global warming is slow and weak. Thus, this contention is negated. ==Rebuttal 3: Arctic Ice and Sea levels== First, I would like to state that Pros claim about the North Pole completely melting is bogus. Never in this debate did I ever claim that. This is a straw-man. In my opponents Arctic Ice graphs, he shows that since nothing has happened to the Arctic Ice Sheet, global warming, and thus man-made global warming, cannot exist. However, again this is a straw-man since he simply takes a single photo for each year (which only shows the ice on a specific date) and then compares them. It is literally subjective to choose the worst of something on an earlier date and compare it with the best of something on a later specific date. For example, you could say that Whitney Houston is bad because she had an off-day, which is completely untrue. Also, although I dont believe in all Arctic Ice melting, it is melting slowly and gradually [5]: And here is a graph on gradually rising sea levels, contradicting my opponents [6]: Thus this contention is negated and proved once again man-made global warming exists. ==Rebuttal 4: The Weather== My opponent is claiming that Hurricanes are increasing due to Global Warming, but this claim is indeed false! Again, never in the debate have I claimed that. Whats more, hurricanes arent actually linked to global warming in general [7]! Hurricanes aren't linked to global warming According to the National Hurricane Center, storms are no more intense or frequent worldwide than they have been since 1850. [] Constant 24-7 media coverage of every significant storm worldwide just makes it seem that way. (Paul Bedard) [7] The story is similar for tornadoes as well [8]: Global warming may well end up making them more frequent or intense, as our intuition would tell us. But it might also actually suppress themthe science just isn't clear yet. [8] Thus, either way, this contention doesnt contradict anything about the existence of man-made global warming. ==Contention 3: Oceanic Acidification== A large portion of the Co2 emitted by the atmosphere is absorbed into the ocean. The more Co2 that is emitted into the atmosphere, the more is absorbed into the ocean, and thus the more acidified the ocean becomes [9]. This and warmer temperatures generally cause coral bleaching, which has happened more frequently recently due to its relatively narrow habitable temperature range [10]. Ocean acidification has increased by 30% since the Industrial Revolution [11]. This acidification can harm aquatic organisms, of which organisms that do not need oxygen take place and release greenhouse gases like methane, [12] thus proving that man-made global warming exists. ==Conclusion== I have refuted all my opponents arguments and have given out major information to support the existence of man-made global warming. Thus, the resolution stands affirmed. [1] http://co2now.org... [2] http://earthguide.ucsd.edu...; [3] http://www.skepticalscience.com... [4] https://www.google.com.vn...; [5] http://www.forbes.com... [6] http://www.nasa.gov... [7] http://www.skepticalscience.com...; [8] http://news.nationalgeographic.com... [9] http://www.teachoceanscience.net... [10] http://www.marinebiology.org...; [11] http://climate.nasa.gov...; [12] https://www.brainpop.com..."	PRO	142
142	S66bd90cb-A646ea9dd	Mankind Is the Main Cause of Global Warming	"Hello again, I appreciate my opponent's commitment also. The debate has been interesting, if long. Unfortunately my last response was somewhat incoherent towards the end - this is because it was written at a time when I should have been asleep... I. Find the Gases that Causes the Planet to Warm I am glad that my opponent does not refute this. However, what my opponent must mean by agreeing with it is that the greenhouse effect actually exists, as I explained. If the greenhouse effect exists, then enhancement of that effect must warm the planet! My opponent states later that ""carbon dioxide does not correlate with temperature very well,"" but it must if he agree with these statements. II. Ensure that those Gases Enter and Remain in the Atmosphere in Greater (or Lesser) Quantities than Before i. Methane I agree that, relative to the natural amount of methane entering the atmosphere, the human contribution is fairly small (20%). What my opponent does not realize is that this small change can have MASSIVE effects - the CO2 and Methane (and water vapour) that are in and are cycling through our atmosphere now have been keeping the planet warm for ages, and thank goodness for that as otherwise the average temperature on earth would have been at -18 degrees celsius, that's zero degrees fahrenheit for you Americans, otherwise known as enough for the surface of the planet to be solid ice! Now we know the effects of the amount we already have (from -18 to 14, or 0 to 57 in fahrenheit) just imagine what a slight, minor increase will do... Keeping in mind that the difference between now and the last ice age is just 5 degrees celsius, that's 10 fahrenheit. Methane warms the world ""20 times faster than CO2"" (1) and although it is only at 1/200th of the amount of CO2 in the atmosphere (and the increase is proportional to this) that still makes methane emissions responsible for 28% of current warming. My opponent's graph is correct, saying that in 2004 methane emissions were going down. Does that preclude the idea that methane caused warming in the years before 2004, or will again? The argument is fallacious in and of itself. Also, AFTER 2004 methane emissions began to increase again, shown here. This may be because methane was trapped in arctic ice, melted by global warming. A fact, by the way, that my opponent cannot dispute - to say that global warming is not happening wrecks his own arguments, to say that there is no natural gas/methane in arctic sea ice is to contradict accepted science. II.ii. CFCs Once more my opponent asserts that because something will not happen in the future means that it is not happening in the present or did not happen in the past. CFCs, which are entirely human synthesized, are no longer in use. This is, as I mentioned earlier, a success. Since CFCs never had the chance to warm the planet too much (though they certainly damaged the ozone layer) I added them as an afterthought on how humans are capable of changing our planet. II.iii. Nitrous Oxide My opponent's reply here is similar to his on methane, and I give a similar response - small changes in the environment can have massive effects, and my evidence is the same as well - the temperature the planet would be at without the greenhouse effect. Nitrous oxide is particularly interesting in this case because it traps heat 300x as fast as carbon dioxide. This is a phenomenal amount, but since much less nitrous oxide ends up in the atmosphere every year than carbon dioxide, it remains a lesser contributor to warming. My opponent asserts that cows reduce nitrous oxide in the atmosphere - but by how much? The reference my opponent provided was inconclusive at best. iv. Carbon Dioxide My opponent's assertion here that the troposphere is not warming is, unfortunately, incorrect, as this graph should exemplify. According to Science Daily, ""The troposphere, the lower part of the atmosphere closest to the Earth, is warming and this warming is broadly consistent with both theoretical expectations and climate models, according to a new scientific study that reviews the history of understanding of temperature changes and their causes in this key atmospheric layer."" My opponent claims that his graph ""disproves the greenhouse theory"" but does not recognize that the natural greenhouse effect has been warming the planet for thousands of years - he is welcome to suggest that CO2 could come from another source than humans, but to say that the greenhouse effect does not exist contradicts this (5) this (6) and this (7) and many, many other sources. In fact, the greenhouse effect itself was known to be true long before global warming, in 1824 when Joseph Fourier first expained it. You have to wonder, where else would all the CO2 go? It doesn't just disappear! My opponent is self contradictory here, as in the same argument he concurs that carbon dioxide and other gases warm the atmosphere but denies that the greenhouse effect they create exists, and furthermore denies that adding any MORE carbon dioxide would warm the atmosphere to a greater extent! If one is to study my opponent's graph here more closely, one realizes that the ppm of carbon dioxide is increasing on this graph, and quite alarmingly. In a mere 30 years it increased by 30 ppm in our entire atmosphere! This is very alarming, especially considering what I mentioned earlier, the fact that the natural amount of ppm of carbon in our atmosphere has warmed the earth 60 degrees fahrenheit and 30 celsius! I repeat again as well that the difference between now and the last ice age was 6 degrees. Thus the temperature and the ppm shown here ARE correlated, and in a very alarming way. The next graph presented is in fact a clever trick - it focus only on minor temperature changes and not on the larger picture it merely sets the information so that the lines fit. It is true, as I have mentioned that the sun causes short term variations in temperature. However, here is a graph that shows OVERALL temperatures, and thus the long term correlation between CO2 and temperature. The next piece here (A ""cooling"" arctic) is simply incorrect. I can show you better than explain, but here are a few quotes anyhow. ""Since 1951 the arctic has warmed twice as much as the global average"" (9) ""The temperature in the arctic has gone up 1.5 degrees celsius, whereas the world has gone up 0.7 degrees."" ""Arctic's rapid temperature rise breaks records."" (10) ""Last year NASA released reports showing arctic temperatures going beyond 2010 records."" (11) For my opponent's final point, he says that global warming causes rises in CO2 levels. How? The greenhouse effect has been established, and accepted by my opponent. If CO2 levels are a a lagging indicator, then how are 1960 - 1990 on these graphs explained? II.iv. Water Vapour What my opponent does not realize here is that temperature rises cause water vapour to increase! Therefore a 1 degree celsius rise in temperature from CO2 causes a 3 degree rise from water vapour - thermal expansion means more water evaporates. No more space - one last graph. This explains the speed of current warming best. 1. http://www.skepticalscience.com... 2. http://www.ncdc.noaa.gov... 3. http://greenliving.nationalgeographic.com... 4. 4. http://www.climatechangechallenge.org.... 5. http://www.sciencedaily.com... 6. http://en.wikipedia.org... 7. http://www.climatechange.gc.ca... 8. http://wattsupwiththat.com... 9. http://www.economist.com... 10.http://www.wwfblogs.org... 11. http://neven1.typepad.com... 12. http://www.skepticalscience.com..."	PRO	143
143	S9b3d820f-A7dd8c538	Anthropogenic global warming is a threat	"It is unfortunate that my opponent is resorting to plagiarism to bolster his claims that anthropogenic global warming is a threat to human kind. My opponent's source four states, ""As ocean waters absorb CO2 they become more acidic. This does not mean the oceans will become acid. Ocean life can be sensitive to slight changes in pH levels, and any drop in pH is an increase in acidity, even in an alkaline environment. The acidity of global surface waters has increased by 30% in just the last 200 years. This rate of acidification is projected through the end of the century to accelerate even further with potentially catastrophic impacts to marine ecosystems. Endorsed by seventy academies of science from around the world, a June 2009 statement from the InterAcademy Panel on International Issues (IAP) stated the following. ""The current rate of change is much more rapid than during any event over the last 65 million years. These changes in ocean chemistry are irreversible for many thousands of years, and the biological consequences could last much longer."" - The InterAcademy Panel, June 1, 2009 As surface waters become more acidic, it becomes more difficult for marine life like corals and shellfish to form the hard shells necessary for their survival, and coral reefs provide a home for more than 25% of all oceanic species. Tiny creatures called pteropods located at the base of many oceanic food chains can also be seriously impacted. The degradation of these species at the foundation of marine ecosystems could lead to the collapse of these environments with devastating implications to millions of people in the human populations that rely on them."" While my opponent states, ""When ocean waters absorb CO2 they become acidic. That doesn't mean that oceans will become acid. Ocean life is very sensitive to even slight pH level changes. Any drop in pH is an increase in acidity, even in an alkaline environment. The acidity in global surface waters has increased by 30% in the last 200 years. This rate of acidification is projected to the end of the century to accelerate even further with potentially catastrophic impacts to marine ecosystems. Agreed upon by seventy academies of science from around the world, a June 2009 statement from the InterAcademy Panel on International Issues (IAP) said ""The current rate of change is much more rapid than during any event over the last 65 million years. These changes in ocean chemistry are irreversible for many thousands of years, and the biological consequences could last much longer."" - The InterAcademy Panel, June 1, 2009[3] When the surface waters become more acidic, it becomes much more difficult for marine life such as corals and shellfish to form the hard shells necessary for their survival, and coral reefs provide a home for more than 25% of all oceanic species. Tiny creatures called pteropods located at the base of many oceanic food chains can also be seriously impacted. The degradation of these species at the foundation of marine ecosystems could lead to the collapse of these environments with devastating implications to millions of people in the human populations that rely on them. [4]"" For proof of plagiarism check http://www.skepticalscience.com... According to plagiarism.org, my opponent has committed the plagiarism type, ""The Too-Perfect Paraphrase"" in which the writer properly cites a source, but neglects to put in quotation marks text that has been copied word-for-word, or close to it. (In this case close to it.) Although attributing the basic ideas to the source, the writer is falsely claiming original presentation and interpretation of the information. http://www.plagiarism.org... Citation 3 is from source 4 with the ""June 2009"" statement leading to the link http://www.interacademies.net... . Also my opponent does not effectively refute my arguments in the case of Desert expansions, to which my opponent claims, ""Inappropriate agriculture and drought are results of warming temperature as shown in the previous round."" That is incorrect as inappropriate agriculture would include slash and burn agriculture which was extensively practiced throughout history well before anthropogenic global warming. http://geography.about.com... For the contention of the causes of fire, and decreasing water supplies, my opponent pulls the straw man argument by stating, ""As I said global warming would contaminate the water. There""s nothing to dispute here as it""s not a rebuttal. This doesn't mean a majority of fires are by this nor that warming temperature isn't a threat. If a town is harboring escaped murders and death rates are increasing do we keep harboring murders because people can still die from car crashes?"" Pro has not referenced any contamination in human water supplies in the previous rounds, and pro does not properly refute the contention of causes of fire by not providing logical causes to fire instead opting for the red herring an appeal to emotions. This in turn results in the straw man fallacy as my opponent believes that he/she has sufficiently refuted my arguments when in reality my opponent has failed to do so. My opponent engages in semantics while accusing me of semantics by stating, ""Encyclopedia Brittanica defines pollution as""the addition of any substance (solid, liquid, or gas) or any form of energy (such as heat, sound, or radioactivity) to the environment at a rate faster than it can be dispersed, diluted, decomposed, recycled, or stored in some harmless form."" And, ""CO2 does make plants grow, however it also makes plant defenses go down[1]. Plants can""t just grow solely on CO2, as the nitrogen won""t keep up with this CO2 causing harmful affects[2] Even if CO2 is good for plant growth this doesn""t mean it""s good or we should have more of it. I am unable to find exactly how the GNP will rise with warmer climate. Even if CO2 isn""t labeled as a pollutant this doesn""t mean it""s good or not harmful. As it""s just semantics."" Pro also attempts to justify his use of semantics by stating, ""Webster""s definition isn""t very broad. Even then it""s defined as ""environmental contamination"" which I have shown CO2 causes. Therefore I strongly urge a con vote."	CON	144
144	Saac88cec-A9150aef9	The Global warming phenomenon could be caused by other things	Changes in land use and urbanization may contribute more to changes in the average ground temperature than global warming caused by human emissions. http://www.climatechangefraud.com	PRO	145
145	S66bd90cb-Af3d598b8	Mankind Is the Main Cause of Global Warming	Classic internet social democracy vs. libertarianism clash, always interesting. I shall contend in this debate that the human race most certainly IS the main cause of global warming, and that that is proven beyond reasonable doubt by scientific evidence. Let the debate begin!	PRO	146
146	S9b3d820f-Aac2de0d5	Anthropogenic global warming is a threat	I would like to thank my opponent for providing another opportunity for me to argue both sides of the global warming controversy with more leeway than the previous one which had me restricted to disprove its existence. I would also like to ask my opponent who has the BOP of this debate or if it is shared. Definitions: Definition of threat; 1: an expression of intention to inflict evil, injury, or damage 2: one that threatens 3: an indication of something impending -http://www.merriam-webster.com... Definition of pollution; 1: the action of polluting especially by environmental contamination with man-made waste; also : the condition of being polluted http://www.merriam-webster.com... Definition of pollute; 1 a : to make ceremonially or morally impure : defile b : debase 1 2 a : to make physically impure or unclean : befoul, dirty b : to contaminate (an environment) especially with man-made waste http://www.merriam-webster.com... Definition of greenhouse gases; any of various gaseous compounds (as carbon dioxide) that absorb infrared radiation, trap heat in the atmosphere, and contribute to the greenhouse effect. http://www.merriam-webster.com... Contentions; Anthropogenic global warming is not a threat to humankind, and to label the effects of a natural phenomena as harmful because of human influence is false. Global warming is not caused by pollutants but greenhouse gases (CO2) and solar radiation, unless my opponent is referring to the 2009 designation of CO2 as an air pollutant by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The designation itself is unusual considering that CO2 is a byproduct of respiration, and technically the designation could be interpreted as drop dead to humanity and to any living organism. kind of ironic for an agency tasked with balancing ecological concerns with human interests. -http://en.wikipedia.org...	CON	147
147	S70f48902-Aebd781dd	Mankind Is the Main Cause of Global Warming	"Okay pro ... Soon to be ameture ... So you believe humans caused global warming. I disagree entirely because you are wrong. There is no real evidence supoorting global warming existence and causes of that. 1. Define (Global) Warming: You have provided any defintion of the word ""Global"" ... Or ""warming"" On this basis i will prove why global warming is not even real... Because in some countries its colder this year than last year or previous years. Therefore, the entire globe is not warming. Certain parts are actually colder now than before. Based on this your entire argument is flawed. 2. The Idea of a God God created us, created the sun, humans could not have anything to do with this because God is omnibenevolent and omniscient. The bible speaks of a divine plan and global warming is obviously a factor. Isaiah 25:1 O LORD, You are my God; I will exalt You, I will give thanks to Your name; For You have worked wonders, Plans formed long ago, with perfect faithfulness. Exodus 26:30 Then you shall erect the tabernacle according to its plan which you have been shown in the mountain. 3.Global warming is not proven Questions are not decided by ""consensus."" In fact, many scientific theories that were once widely believed to be true were made irrelevant by new evidence. Just to name one of many, many examples, in the early seventies, scientists believed global cooling was occurring. However, once the planet started to warm up, they changed their minds. Yet, the primary ""scientific"" argument for global warming is that there is a ""scientific consensus"" that it's occurring. Setting aside the fact that's not a scientific argument, even if that ever was true (and it really wasn't), it's certainly not true anymore. Over 31,000 scientists have signed on to a petition saying humans aren't causing global warming. More than 1000 scientists signed on to another report saying there is no global warming at all. There are tens of thousands of well-educated, mainstream scientists who do not agree that global warming is occurring at all and people who share their opinion are taking a position grounded in science. - http://m.townhall.com..."	CON	148
148	Sa50d3bff-A23c21904	Resolved: Man-made Global Warming, on Planet Earth, Exists.	"Okay thanks, it works now. That's okay, but scientifically the O has to be capitalized, because if you don't it's Cobalt2. Hence Cobalt is Co and Carbon Dioxide is CO2, so please remember to wirte it correct, thanks! Contention 1: CO2 and its effects. I deeply appologize for mistaking for what my opponent had stated as it came from my opponent's 7th source in his second round, but let's move on. The fact is that the Warming from it's effects are so microscopic that it does not cause the effects that my opponent has brought up and to mention that he has DROPPED this portion stating how much Warming Gasses come from humans and it's very microscopic. I'll be posting that graph bellow. Now once again if we look at this chart we can see that the gasses that are these Warming gasses and compare it to how much mankind has contributed to the Warming equation we can see that it is very microscopic at best and has no impact upon the globe as it is just so small and microscopic. This is an important point that my opponent dropped as it shows that humans are not contributing to Global Warming, but rather something else is. Prehaps is the cows who's manuer produces more methane now for some strange reason? Just in case the graph doesn't post I'll post it's information bellow. GAS -- GREENHOUSE EFFECT -- HUMAN EFFECT Water Vapor ------ 95.000% -- 0.001% Carbon Dioxide -- 3.618% ---- 0.117% Methane ----------- 0.360 ------ 0.066% Nitrous oxide ------ 0.950% ---- 0.047% Misc ----------------- 0.072% ---- 0.047% Total ----------------- 100% ------- 0.278% [1] Remeber the Warming numbers that I have posted last round that CO2 is the equilivence to 1 GWP. We can also see that my Numbers that I've allowed for my calculations were more moddested as it showed more of an increase than my opponent is showing and that was from one of his earlier graphs. Once again it's a 0.15 F increase of temperature and that's assuming there's a 105 ppm increase compared to the mere 40 ppm increase that my opponent has shown which means that the temperature under these numbers would drop to around 0.06 F. Again there isn't a large enough amount of emmitions produced from humans to cause a great difference in a global meltdown that my opponent is predictings. If we observe the above Greenland Ice Core we can see that though it's been heating up we can swee that on average it's a whole lot colder than what it is on a normal basis. This is also acknowledging that humans have only been around in the past 10,000 years or so we can see that this Ice Core is still colder than normal even with the emmission that are produced today. Now if we observe the above graph of the past 400,000 yeasrs we can see that the CO2 rates in our atmosphere has flutated the exact same way in this cycle both before and during the existance of human beings. We can see that the temperatures and CO2 levels have been going up and down randomly for the past 100 thousands years and it is observed that this occured before the industrial revolution. We can also see that right now we are in a warming period so that arguing that humans are because of this is post hoc. Not to mention that we are in the coldest of the warming periods in Earth's history! We can see that once again despite contrary to belief we can see that though there may be warming the fact is simply that there is no human warming. What I'm showing on my logerithum is that there is no corrilation to what my opponent is stating and this shows that more CO2 doesn't harm the atmosphere and destroy it like that of what my opponent is stating. Contention 2: Earth is cooling. My opponent drops the hot spot argument so we'll move on to the next argument. Once again we can see that the IPCC and Al Gore are inccorect as the hocky stick graph is a bust. As I've shown in earlier rounds and they have been dropped in showing that the Earth's temperature has indeed been way hotter then current and on an average basis at that. My opponent has also dropped my opening graph in C1 r2 That also showed that CO2 levels are at an all time low! Thus once again disproving my opponent's theory. Here we can see that even though CO2 levels are increaseing that the temperature in recent years has actually decreased on the linear scale. Also the US Senate Committe on Envirnment and public works also took a stab at this issue. They found that the Hocky Stick graph was also bogus in 2006. Todays NAS report reaffirms what I have been saying all along, that Mann's hockey stick is broken,Senator Inhofe said. Todays report refutes Mann's prior assertions that there was no Medieval Warm Period or Little Ice Age. This report shows that the planet warmed for about 200 years prior to the industrial age, when we were coming out of the depths of the Little Ice Age where harsh winters froze the Thames and caused untold deaths. Trying to prove man-made global warming by comparing the well-known fact that today's temperatures are warmer than during the Little Ice Age is akin to comparing summer to winter to show a catastrophic temperature trend. [2] Here we can see that they've found that this warming of the similiar to what my opponent is trying to prove is indeed bogus. Paleoclimate scientist Bob Carter had shown through his research at University of East Angila in the United Kingdom that the Climate Change increase had actually froze from 1998-2006 showing that this so called Global Warming had actually stopped. [3] Contention 3: Artic Ice and Sea Levels. I do not concede the arugment as it shows that there is a plus or minus .3 mm increase or decrease each year which as I've shown in previous graphs in previous rounds that it's a cycle. The graph bellow is proof of the cycle of what I'm talking about. Plus even if it was caused by Global Warming my opponent still has to prove that it was caused by HUMANS in order to take the win here not to show that it exists. According studies done by Ola Johannessen we can see that the Greenland Ice Sheet is growing! Also we can see from the same study is that the Artic was actually warmer in the 1930's than today! [4] s://encrypted-tbn3.gstatic.com...; alt="""" /> Here we can see that the Antartic Ice has been increasing recently, but you may ask what about the Artic Lannan? Well let's look. s://encrypted-tbn1.gstatic.com...; alt="""" /> Well I'll be, not only is the artic ice growing, but it's getting thicker and thicker. According to studies we can see that if we tack on one more year to my opponent's graph we can see that he fails to tell you that from August 2012 to August 2013 that the Artic Ice grew 533,000 square miles and this is according to NASA charts. Contention 4: Hurricane and Tornados If we observe the above graph we can see that there is no net increase in violent Hurricanes nor their wind speed. We can see that my includes more years and hence more data which disproves my opponents. Plus when you add in my R2 graph, which was unrefuted, you can see that there is zero if not a decreasing trend when it comes to hurricanes. Contention 5: Ocean Acidification Climatoligist Rodger Pielke sr. has found that in the past when the Ocean has gained heat the Ocean has lost that heat within 2 years of which it was gained. Who has been quoted saying, ""certainly indicates that the multi-decadal global climate models have serious issues with their ability to accurately simulate the response of the climate system to human- and natural-climate forcings."" [5] This shows that the Ocean cannot be gaining this gaining an over exaggerated amount of CO2 causing the acidification that my opponent has been claiming. We can actually see that my opponent's graph actually fits within the amount of pH varriation that I have stated last round which further prooves my point. Sources 1. (http://www.geocraft.com...) 2. (http://www.epw.senate.gov...) 3. (http://www.telegraph.co.uk...) 4. (https://books.google.com...) 5. (http://climatesci.atmos.colostate.edu...)"	CON	149
149	S70cb061-Aee84d027	Man-Made global warming exists* and poses a serious threat to humanity.	"Outline: Most of Pro's case is focused on CO2. I will prove that CO2 as no threatening potential, even when combined with our other emissions. In order to win, Pro must prove that CO2 is a major threat, as that is the core of his argument. Rebuttal I: CO2 Global Warming Potential Pro argues that humans also give off many other emissions. I acknowledged this in my last round and discussed it's potential as well. Those gases have huge GWPs but are simply too small in the scheme of things. ""Assuming the increase in the other gases ppm were the same proportionately, we would be responsible for an increase of nearly 0.20F. This leaves 1.33F left that human's are not responsible for."" Men's emissions simply don't account for the number needed to assume the whole of Global Warming is man-made. Methane and Nitrous, as a whole, doesn't match up to CO2 emissions alone. Making up a combined 1.31% of all Global Warming, humans making up 0.113% total (1). As for F gases, they are so few that they, with all their potential, only make up less than 0.072% of all Global Warming Potential. They are all combined to form the Misc section. We see the total GWP of Misc, Methane, Nitrious, and CO2 in a visual display. Pro's numbers are correct, but they only represent what percent of the total MAN-MADE GWP those gases make up. But when compared to the total GWP from both men and nature, it only account for 0.278%. This is far too small to be a threat to the World. I've already discussed this, and will display the chart again. GAS -- GREENHOUSE EFFECT -- HUMAN EFFECT Water Vapor ------ 95.000% -- 0.001% Carbon Dioxide -- 3.618% ---- 0.117% Methane ----------- 0.360 ------ 0.066% Nitrous oxide ------ 0.950% ---- 0.047% Misc ----------------- 0.072% ---- 0.047% Total ----------------- 100% ------- 0.278% 1) http://www.geocraft.com... Rebuttal II: Deforestation and Indirect Emissions. I understand this argument well. I've debated it before. CO2 emissions from Deforestation is calculated into the amount listed above. Making up a pretty percent of our total emissions. Deforestation, however, isn't an issue. US forests are larger today than they were 100 years ago.(2) The US's forest growth is 42% larger than it's forest harvesting. The world replants almost every tree removed, with the UN (apart from the US) replanting 1.7 billion trees (3) and the US replanting 1.5 billion trees a year (4), the world isn't far behind it's deforestation rate. At a total replanting rate of 3.2 billion trees a year + plus ever tree planted by lumber companies. Many lumber company replants trees they cut down to ensure they always have a supply. Forests are not disappearing at close to the rate most people assume they are. It would take over 150 years for the forests in the world to be cut in half, based off US/UN replanting alone. With Lumber Companies replacement programs and all other private replantings, as well has natural Forest Growth, we may never see it at the current rate of deforestation. As for CO2 emitted by Deforestation, it's outwieghed by the amount of CO2 consumed over the lifespan of all the trees we replant. Cutting down a tree and turning it into lumber releases 1,200 lb of CO2. Ever tree we replant consumes 12,000 lb throughout it's life. This adds up, as in one year we will release 2.3 Gigatonnes cutting down trees, but the trees replanted that same year will consume 19 Gigatonnes in their lifes. A mighty profit. After the 88 years it would take to cut down every tree that is alive at this moment, we will have emitted 237.6 Gigatonnes, but the trees we replanted would have consumed a grand 661.17 Gigatonnes by then, after calculating the total consumption of CO2 every year. The first year's trees would consume 6.7 Gigatonnes by then, the next years would consume 6.67 Gigatonnes, and so on. As for ocean pollution, this is true that Ocean Pollution is a bad situation, but Pro hasn't proven that it's enough of a threat to make the Resolution true. CO2 and all it's emittions simply aren't strong enough to support Pro's case and prove the Resolution. CO2, at it's GWP, has far to go before it's a major issue. Until then, Human's aren't leaving around nearly a large enough amount to hurt the environment. Total World Emissions, including humans, only accounts for slightly above 3% of the total Green House Effect. It and every other gas Pro mentioned makes up in total 5%. If you only look at the Man-Made gases, it's only 0.555% of total effect. We know CO2 isn't that bad in the scheme of things because of how CO2 levels were around 7000 PPM in the Cambrian Period, and yet the temperature was only 10c higher, showing the CO2 doesn't have nearly the effect Global Warming Alarmists are predicting. Pro's own rebuttal only makes this more clear, as we will see. 2) http://forestry.about.com... 3) http://www.un.org... 4) http://forestry.about.com... Rebuttal III: Global Warming Cycle. Yes, CO2 is 400 PPM now, which is pretty high compared to recent cycles, temperatures are still lower than any other warming period. This is prove supporting my case. This Global Warming Period has the highest CO2 PPM (and I never said we weren't responsible for the increase in CO2, as we are, just that CO2 isn't a huge threat) and yet it is the coldest warming period to date. This is clear evidence that CO2 isn't a threat. I already knew the charts were 50 years out of date, I was hoping Pro would notice, as the charts only proof that while CO2 rises during the warming periods, it doesn't cause the warming, otherwise we would be in the hottest warming period in the last 400,000 years. Looking at the charts again, we see that, at 400 ppm, CO2 is high, but we know Global Temperatures is 1.53F higher than 1900 at this very moment, which makes it the coldest period. Looking at the charts, we see that the coldest warming period is about 2.2c warming than the 1950 record, while today isn't even a forth that. ""As you can see, CO2 emissions are actually much much higher than they have ever been in natural history - 100 PPMs higher than ever."" -Pro This is ignorant of my arguments about how high CO2 was in the Mesozoic and Cambrian Eras. Despite the high amount of CO2, which only looks high compared to recent history, both the Cambrian and current temperatures are well under what people claim they should be. We are colder now than any other warming period in recent history, despite high CO2, because CO2 isn't that big of an issue. As for Pro's R2 points, they are mostly an Argument From Authority, from a group of people who are paid to question how humans effect Global Warming, not how Nature might also effect it. Conclusion: CO2 and all the Gases humans release do not have the power needed to prove Man-Made Global Warming is a threat. As far as numbers and data go, The mass of Global Warming we see is natural, and would happen with or without human involvememt. As said in my R2 case, CO2 has been rising since 9000 years ago, and despite high amounts of it, we still have the coldest Warming Peroid in the last 400,000 years."	CON	150
150	S70cb061-A44785a6e	Man-Made global warming exists* and poses a serious threat to humanity.	*Exists and significantly contributes to overall global warming. Rules Round 1- Acceptance, Historical Background, and Definitions only. Round 2- Constructive Arguments only. Round 3- Free choice. Round 4- Rebuttals/Defences only. Round 5- Closing Remarks. No new rebuttals/defences/responses/arguments may be made in this round. You may, however, make fresh cross examinations of points, using your own points. Any rule violation constitutes an immediate loss of conduct points. Forfeiting more than 1 round constitutes a full 7 point loss. The BOP is shared. For the sake of this debate, Pro must argue that Mankinds interference with nature is a significant cause of the general upward trend of average global temperatures. Pro must also argue that this general upward trend will have effects that are seriously detrimental to humankind. Con must argue that Human-Action does not significantly contribute to the general upward trend of average global temperature. Con must also argue that this general trend will not have seriously detrimental effects to humankind. No arguments of semantics are acceptable. No arguments that question the premise of the debate are acceptable. Definitions Global Warming- The general upward trend of Global Average temperatures. Man-Made Global Warming- a force that contributes to general global warming that is caused by the greenhouse effect, and other forms of human interference with nature. Greenhouse effect- An effect that results from CO2 and CH4 pollution (there are also other chemicals that contribute, these are called greenhouse gases). Causes heat to be trapped in the earths environment. Serious Threat- Anything that could potentially kill a large number of people, wipe out a species of animal, or ruin any sizeable economy constitutes a serious threat for this debate. Significant Cause- anything that has a noticeable impact on the overall force. I look forward to a very interesting debate. Note: If you mean to argue that there is no general upward trend of temperatures at all, man-made or not, then do not accept this debate.	PRO	151
151	Se4d5d288-A13d37fbb	Global Warming is Largely Man-Made	"Contention 1: No major/any CO2 Increase Firstly I would like to point out a huge drop from my last round. This was my just how much of each of the Green House Gasses actually contribute and how much of them actually are from man made. Let's run those percentages one more time. Water Vapor---0.001% CO2---0.117% Methane---0.066% N2O---0.047% Misc. (including CFCs)---0.047% We can see here that these percentages are indeed quite low and this was dropped by my opponent so I extend them across the board. Let us observe the above graph. Here I would like to point out the that the increase from Pre-Inustrial to Industrial era and the doubling of the CO2 leveling lead to a decrease in it's temperature. Also we can see that the 10 mile ""hot-spot"" above the tropics is actually absent. ""The computer models show that greenhouse warming will cause a hot-spot at an altitude between 8 and 12 km over the tropics between 30 N and 30 S. The temperature at this hot-spot is projected to increase at a rate of two to three times faster than at the surface. However, the Hadley Centre's real-world plot of radiosonde temperature observations shown below does not show the projected CO2 induced global warming hot-spot at all. The predicted hot-spot is entirely absent from the observational record. This shows that atmosphere warming theory programmed into climate models are wrong."" [1] If we observe the above Greenland Ice Core we can see that though it's been heating up we can swee that on average it's a whole lot colder than what it is on a normal basis. This is also acknowledging that humans have only been around in the past 10,000 years or so we can see that this Ice Core is still colder than normal even with the emmission that are produced today. Now if we observe the above graph of the past 400,000 yeasrs we can see that the CO2 rates in our atmosphere has flutated the exact same way in this cycle both before and during the existance of human beings. We can see that the temperatures and CO2 levels have been going up and down randomly for the past 100 thousands years and it is observed that this occured before the industrial revolution. We can also see that right now we are in a warming period so that arguing that humans are because of this is post hoc. Not to mention that we are in the coldest of the warming periods in Earth's history! Hence this reveals that this whole Global Warming is just a cycle that Earth is expierencing. We can see that once again despite contrary to belief we can see that though there may be warming the fact is simply that there is no human warming. I also appologize for using evidence that has expired. Could you tell me which one and I'll post it in the comments section. Thanks. Contention 2: Earth is Cooling You're probably asking yourself, why am I seeing this graph again? This is because the more CO2 we get the less warming there is. If we observe this graph we can see that the Warming has decreased with more CO2 that we've recieved. This shows that CO2 doesn't have that much of an impact on the tempterature like the math that I've proved it in my last contention. [2] Now I will agree that Eastbrook isn't good with predicting temperature change, but the IPCC is even worse, but whatever is causing the change it is highly unlikely that it's man made. Once again we can see that the IPCC and Al Gore are inccorect as the hocky stick graph is a bust. As I've shown in earlier rounds and they have been dropped in showing that the Earth's temperature has indeed been way hotter then current and on an average basis at that. My opponent has also dropped my opening graph in C1 r2 That also showed that CO2 levels are at an all time low! Thus once again disproving my opponent's theory. Here we can see that even though CO2 levels are increaseing that the temperature in recent years has actually decreased on the linear scale. Also the US Senate Committe on Envirnment and public works also took a stab at this issue. They found that the Hocky Stick graph was also bogus in 2006. Todays NAS report reaffirms what I have been saying all along, that Mann's hockey stick is broken,Senator Inhofe said.Todays report refutes Mann's prior assertions that there was no Medieval Warm Period or Little Ice Age. This report shows that the planet warmed for about 200 years prior to the industrial age, when we were coming out of the depths of the Little Ice Age where harsh winters froze the Thames and caused untold deaths. Trying to prove man-made global warming by comparing the well-known fact that today's temperatures are warmer than during the Little Ice Age is akin to comparing summer to winter to show a catastrophic temperature trend. [3] Here we can see that they've found that this warming of the similiar to what my opponent is trying to prove is actually indeed bogus. Paleoclimate scientist Bob Carter had shown through his research at University of East Angila in the United Kingdom that the Climate Change increase had actually froze from 1998-2006 showing that this so called Global Warming had actually stopped. [4] My opponent tries to claim that I am a hypocrate, but he is yet twisting my own words. I'm showing that there's none if not barely little warming and that Water Vapor is a key part of it. He fails to see that I showed that how much water vapor is when I showed the equation in my last round in Contention 1, so my opponent's tangent is irrelivant here. Contention 3: Artic Ice and Sea Level. I do appologize. Let me bring up other evidence since my last round apparently wasn't good enough though I sited NASA of all organizations. THough my opponent likes to blow things out of perportion we can see that these sea levels rise and fall on their own. It's a natural cycle as I showed last round. The trend shows only a mere +/- 0.30 mm per year. ""The Proudman Oceanographic Laboratory estimates the rate of sea level rise at 1.42 plus or minus 0.14 mm/year for the period 1954 to 2003. This is less than the estimate of 1.91 plus or minus 0.14 mm/year for the period 1902 to 1953, indicating a slowing of the rate."" [5] We can see that 2.8 inches per 50 years isn't that much of an appocolyptic threat. Here is a graph from NOAA which shows that the sea level rise is very small and that the IPCC is way off as well as many other Warming ""experts"". [6] In the above graph we can see that despit Artic Ice slightly decreasing we can see that it follows the same patern throughout the year as the Ice melts in the summer and freezes in the winter. We can see that my opponents' sea ice level predictions are incorrect. [7] Which if sea ice is decreasing then explain the great sea ice exspansion of Antartica in 2012 shown bellow. It had a total of 20,000 miles more ice than average. The graph bellow is proof of the cycle of what I'm talking about. Plus even if it was caused by Global Warming my opponent still has to prove that it was caused by HUMANS in order to take the win here not to show that it exists. According studies done by Ola Johannessen we can see that the Greenland Ice Sheet is growing! Also we can see from the same study is that the Artic was actually warmer in the 1930's than today! [8] I also extend across all of my previous arguments for this Contention. Contention 4: Storms The NOAA has shown that Tornados are less frequent and occur less and less. [9] I continue to extend across my NOAA Hurricane graph from last round. If we observe the above graph we can see that there is no net increase in violent Hurricanes nor their wind speed. We can see that my includes more years and hence more data which disproves my opponents. Plus when you add in my R2 graph, which was unrefuted, you can see that there is zero if not a decreasing trend when it comes to hurricanes. My graphs are just some imaginary data and I shall extend them all across the board. Sources 1. (http://www.friendsofscience.org...) 2. (http://www.friendsofscience.org...) 3. (http://www.epw.senate.gov...) 4. (http://www.telegraph.co.uk...) 5. (http://www.lavoisier.com.au...) 6. (http://scienceandpublicpolicy.org...) 7. (http://www.c3headlines.com...) 8. (In comments due to URL length) 9. (http://wattsupwiththat.com...)"	CON	152
152	S70f48902-A142e00f6	Mankind Is the Main Cause of Global Warming	"First of all why dont you learn to read... I said you DID provide a definition... What is wrong with you? 1. KAAPSTAD KOUD WATER ETTECKS(SHARKS) the oceans is so cold there people even die in Cape town. I have personally been to Cape Town. Many shark attacks occure in Cape Town. This is because of the anual shark migration towardwatrrs below 10"" celciuse(sorry used a bullet i have no degrees sign on my keyboard). SO if Global warming was becuase of the humans why are sharks real? Millions of deaths a week in Cape Town. Blerry Bushies!. 2.God Is already stated in my opening argument... Remember Isaac? The devine plan is proof that the devil is real and is the real cuase of global warming. This means that god is making us die so we can repent for our sins. Judgment day is nearing and our Father will Save us. You on the other hand believe that we are the cause of our own sins where it is atually satans fault and he called all the heat and Bushies in Cape town. 3. Global warming isnt in the bible and we still havr winter and polar bears. The bible doesnt speak of global warming, therefore it is a myth, if it isvproven by scientists then obviously scientists are illuminati. Also if there is global warming how can we have winter and snow, if ice caps are melting, how is we not melting and snow. 4. Global warming is irrelevent. Even if global warming does exist... Which it doesnt in my opinion, lets say for your benefit that it does... Its still irrelvent because we all die in the end. Think about it, animals dont start complaining about themselves because they are doing things they dont like. So obviously even if global warming does exist and we are causing it why do you even care? 5.Global warming is not our fault THE BIBLE IS PROOF! ... even if global warming is real which like i said in my opinion it isnt unless satan exists which he does so it is real now. The bible had a plan and you are ruining the plan the work of our Heavenly Father is being destroyed becuase your are mildly possessed be satan himself. It is satans fault and he is telling you to convince humans thag it is our fault ... Our Father be with you save you from this evil ... Lokk inside and pray. In the name of Jesus Chist, Our Lord And Saviour rid this man of the wicked Lucifer, Satan. 6.illuminati controls the world. The illuminati is the henchmen of satan, they sold their souls to him and now they have money and power while on earth... So obviously satan is controlling the media through the illuminanti. The illuminati also controls the internet so the information you give is biased towards what the illuminati wants us to think. So now we know that the bible is the only way to understand that global warming is both real and unreal... It is only real in the media and when satan convinces us that it is real. But in reality its fake. So its cant be our fault, but technicallh itvis some peoples fault lkke you because you think the media is true and you allows satan to convince and alter your soul and the way you think. So for i'll say its real... But actually for us who have been recognised and visited be jesus christ, it is ckear to us that you livingvunder his possession"	CON	153
153	Sa50d3bff-Aa21c6a97	Resolved: Man-made Global Warming, on Planet Earth, Exists.	"http://www.youtube.com... I hate it when links are broken... http://www.skepticalscience.com... If this doesn't work, click on the original link and take off the extra space at the end of the link in the URL bar. I actually quoted the wrong part of this website by mistake. I was meant to quote ""It is unclear whether global warming is increasing hurricane frequency but there is increasing evidence that warming increases hurricane intensity."" Also, apologies for writing Carbon Dioxide as Co2 (Cobalt2, as my adversary points out). It's just the way I grew up writing it. Moving on... ____________________________________________________________________________________ ==Counter 1: Co2 and its effects== ""Now remind yourself that Pro said in Round 2 that CO2 is responsable for LARGE amount of Global Warming."" - Opponent I'm not sure where I said this. I ask my adversary to quote from me. In fact, my opponent's entire rebuttal for this argument is misleading. It is subjective to use only Co2 as a base for a rebuttal against the resolution. If we were to count all the other causes of the greenhouse effect, then it is very possible to conclude that this can heat Earth by more than just 0.15 degrees Fahrenheit. My opponent even concedes that there is a warming caused by anthropogenic emissions, but then states that it is very low. That isn't what his BoP wants. To fulfill it, he must disprove the entirety of anthropogenic global warming. ""Since 1 gigaton of CO2 is the equivilance of .004% of the Greenhouse effect that means that 49.29 gigatons means an aditional .21% increase to Global Warming. This would account for a grand total of a 0.15 F increase in global temperature."" - Opponent Not only have Co2 levels increased, but there are steep increases in other greenhouse gases as well [1]: Be reminded that there is already a correlation between Earth's temperature and Co2 levels, and that the rates of circular cooling and warming, and increase/decrease of Co2 levels have stopped and started to rise severely [2]: We cannot use my opponent's graph which suggests the contrary to the temperatures above, as it only uses data from Georgia [3], a state in the United States of America [4]. There is literally a direct contradiction between my adversary's chart (from 1990, Georgia) and mine (1880, worldwide). Atmospheric concentrations of Co2 and anthropogenic emissions of Co2 have a correlation as well [5]: My opponent then goes on to review a graph on the logarithmic effects of increased carbon dioxide levels. Even if this is true, by my opponent's logic there is still a warming effect. It just gets smaller, but not negative. We can't say that the warming effect is slower to disprove the entirety of anthropogenic global warming, because that is fallacious and invalid, and ends up failing to fulfill the real BoP here. ==Counter 2: The earth is actually cooling== People and websites have actually shown the hot-spot absence to be fake. According to Skeptical Science, the absence of the hot-spot could be due to the errors in the processing of data [6]: ""Satellite measurements match model results apart from in the tropics. There is uncertainty with the tropic data due to how various teams correct for satellite drift. The U.S. Climate Change Science Program conclude the discrepancy is most likely due to data errors."" - Skeptical Science [6] ""Allen and Sherwood sought to side step the problems associated with the radiosonde data entirely, and examined the dynamical relationship known as the thermal-wind equation, which relates horizontal temperature gradients to wind shear. Thermal wind speed data, in contrast to the temperature data, lacked many of the systematic adjustment issues and other errors, and were used as a proxy for temperature. Allen and Sherwood found that the troposphere appeared to be warming in reasonable agreement to theoretical and modeling expectations."" - Skeptical Science [6] The IPCC projections are actually considered to be quite accurate, in comparison to both of Easterbrook's projections [7] (animation of both comparisons, then together): ""All of the IPCC projections have proven to be quite accurate, suggesting high reliability. The contrarian projections all underestimate the global warming substantially, and in fact they erroneously predict global cooling and are quite unreliable."" - Skeptical Science [7] ==Counter 3: Arctic Ice and Sea Levels== Note that the rise and fall of the data represents sea level CHANGE RATES, not the sea level itself. The majority of the data is above zero, meaning that on average the sea level, even if minimally, is rising. In fact, the sea level rise is actually accelerating quite quickly [8]: ""A variety of different measurements find steadily rising sea levels over the past century."" - Skeptical Science [8] ""The trend shows only a mere +/- 0.30 mm per year. ""The Proudman Oceanographic Laboratory estimates the rate of sea level rise at 1.42 plus or minus 0.14 mm/year for the period 1954 to 2003. This is less than the estimate of 1.91 plus or minus 0.14 mm/year for the period 1902 to 1953, indicating a slowing of the rate."" [6] We can see that 2.8 inches per 50 years isn't that much of an appocolyptic threat."" - Opponent This is irrelevant. We are debating whether anthropogenic global warming exists, not if it is dangerous or not. The existence of something does not mandate an argument of how safe it is. My opponent actually concedes that there is a rise, but again tries to save his stance on the argument by saying that it is minimal, which again isn't the point. By my opponent's logic, if man-made global warming exists, sea levels should not rise at all, to which he has conceded the contrary. Thus my opponent concedes this entire point. Also, although Arctic sea ice extent does follow a pattern, it is still gradually decreasing [9]: Although I will concede the Antarctic ice is expanding, the arctic is losing ice more than twice as fast than the Antarctic is gaining ice [10][11]. ""Since the late 1970s, the Arctic has lost an average of 20,800 square miles (53,900 square kilometers) of ice a year; the Antarctic has gained an average of 7,300 square miles (18,900 sq km)."" - NASA [10] ==Counter 4: Hurricanes and Tornadoes== I had already proven that tornadoes are not linked to global warming whatsoever, so this argument has been debunked. The hurricane argument has been re-responded to. To reinforce the fact that hurricanes are getting more intense however, here is a graph showing the increase of more intense hurricanes over time [12]: ""Higher surface temperatures of the world's oceans could be responsible for the big rise in the strength of hurricanes, say US scientists."" - Physicsworld.com [12] ==Counter 5: Ocean Acidification== Although it is correct that ocean acidification is not yet at a critical level, it is acidifying very rapidly. It is predicted that by 2100 the ocean will have a pH as low as 7.8 [13]: ""Currently, there are no known natural explanations for the observed decline in GLOBAL AVERAGE ocean pH, and, there is one, clear human-caused explanation (note the global bit is important - there is natural local variation in pH but we are concerned with global shifts)."" - Switchboard [13] Since the ocean is acidifying, the organisms in the ocean will slowly die out, for anaerobic organisms to replace them and emit gases such as methane, as shown in the last round. ==Conclusion== I have effectively refuted all my opponent's claims and have shown how my opponent has essentially conceded. Thus the resolution is affirmed. [1] http://www.natsoc.org.au... [2] http://www.ukccsc.co.uk... [3] http://en.wikipedia.org... [4] http://www.lawrencevilleweather.com... [5] http://www.lawrencevilleweather.com... [6] http://www.skepticalscience.com... [7] http://www.skepticalscience.com... [8] http://www.skepticalscience.com... [9] http://www.carbonbrief.org... [10] http://www.nasa.gov... [11/video] [12] http://physicsworld.com... [13] http://switchboard.nrdc.org..."	PRO	154
154	Sa50d3bff-A54a76522	Resolved: Man-made Global Warming, on Planet Earth, Exists.	"Contention 1: No Major/any CO2 Increase. Many Global Warming advocates state that CO2 levels are skyrocketing, but that is incorrect. I give you the above graph measuring the past 600 million years of CO2 levels are we are actually at an all time low. Now the website I got this from no longer has this page up so I appologize. We can see from observance of this graph that we being at all time CO2 low levles that we are nowhere close to meeting the impact that my opponent brings up. We have been over 5,000 ppm of CO2 in our atmosphere and are now currently around apprx. 350 ppm CO2 levels. The above graph shows that comparisions of C13 (Carbon isotope) and this shows that there is little to no trend pertrade in many of these as the average is zero while the trend for all of these are zero. (1) This is important as the Carbon isotope is important in measuring this so called ""Global Warming."" This chart above shows the CO2 and Earth's temperatures for the past 600 million years. My opponent's claims are incorect as we have had aburd levels of CO2 and temperature on Earth and may I ask how did we survive that? (2) Now I will move on to how Earth is actually cooling and how it's temperature is cooler than it has been. Contention 2: Earth is cooling. If we observe the above graph we can see that Earth has been a whole lot hotter than where we currently are to the point where the Earth's average temperature has been 7.5 degrees Celcuis hotter than it currently it is. You can also see that in the span of the past 10,000 years the temperature has leveld off, but you may ask yourself where does that place us in the lights of modern day? I am going to site Dr. Done Easterbrook, who is a climate scientist. Back in 2000 he predicted that Earth was entering a cooling phase. He predicts that for the next 20 years Earth will cool by 3/10 degree each year and that we are going to enter another little Ice Age like we did from 1650 and 1790. (3) The funny thing is that many of my opponent's charts are actually from the incorrect IPPC. How about the ""Hockey Stick"" graph that many Global Warming supporters , including my opponent, argue about? Well if we observe the fallowing chart taken from Northern Scandenavia we can see that the Global trend over the past 1,000 years that the Global Cooling trend slope is that of -0.31 Degrees Celcuis, give or take 0.03 degrees (for the error room). Professor Dr. Jan Esper has found that the Earth's temperature of Earth actually decreases 0.3 per millenia due to the Earth moving away from the sun. (4) Here is another graph from 1920 to 2005 and we can see that the graph has a negative temperature slope, thus meaning that the Earth is under a period of cooling. (5) You can see in terms of more Warming in the evidence in which Scientists use Ice Cores Earth has actually been Cooling the past Mellenium. You can see that in terms of Gasses contribution to the Green House Effect the major contributer is Water Vapor and it's at 95% to CO2's 3.6% and this is the overall contribution including man made and natural. When we look to the chart on the left we can see that Man-Made CO2 does have a higher contribution to the atmosphere than Water Vapor, but that's because we do not create much water vapor as humans. Even with this evidence we can see that CO2 does not have any effect what-so-ever compared to Water Vapor. (6) Where might those CFCs be on this graph you may ask. Why it's under the Misc. gases section. Contention 3: Artic Ice. First, I would like to state that Pro's claim about the North Pole completely melting is bogus. Al Gore stated that the Artic Ice would be completely melted by 2014, but he is incorrect then and now. Jan. 6, 2012: The Coast Guard Cutter Healy breaks ice around the Russian-flagged tanker Renda 250 miles south of Nome. The Healy is the Coast Guards only currently operating polar icebreaker. The vessels are transiting through ice up to five-feet thick in this area. The 370-foot tanker Renda will have to go through more than 300 miles of sea ice to get to Nome, a city of about 3,500 people on the western Alaska coastline that did not get its last pre-winter fuel delivery because of a massive storm. (7) Let's go back to 2007-2008 and see if his claim was justified in the Artic Ice activity. Hmmm... It seems that he is incorrect, but let's look further into the near past. How about 2012-2013? (8) We all remember the Climate Scientists that got stuck in Arctic Ice Earlier last year correct? Then a Russian Ice Breaker tried to free them, but got stuck. Can you guess what they were studying? They had predicted that all the Arctic Ice had melted due to Global Warming and that Earth would get flooded massively. Boy were they wrong. (9) (10) Dr. Koonin, former head of the Department of Energy under President Obama, has stated that the Global Warming scare is not suttle. This is because that he has found 3 things wrong and highly incorrect about the scare. 1. Shrinking of Artic Sea ice doesn't acount for the gaining of the Antartic ice. 2. The warming of Earth's temps today is the same as it was 30 years ago. 3. The sea levels rose at the same height and rate in the 20th cenury. (11) Contention 4: Sea Levels Here is another corralation that must happen. If the Ice Caps are completely melted as Pro claims then the sea level would have risen completely drowning tons of land. The graph above is raw satellite image data of the sea level rise over an 8 year period showing that there is little to no change in the Sea Levels rising. (12) The sea level rises, on average, about 3 inches per century and it has been found to not even been rising at all. This graph is the sea levels off the cost of French Guyana which is one of the areas which is predicted to be flooded due to Global Warming, but as you can see by the graph (which goes to 2008) the sea level is currently on a downward trend. (13) The source is the PDF within the link. Contention 5: The Weather My opponent is claiming that Hurricanes are increasing due to Global Warming, but this claim is indeed false! The hurricanes since the year 1900 to 2008 have actually been decreasing. The slope of this downward slope is .0016. Though it is small the hurricanes are still in a downward trend. As a matter of fact not only are Hurricanes on a downward trend, but they are at an all time low as in the year 2010, there was only 68 Hurricanes Globally, which is an all time low in the past 40 years. How about Tornados you may ask? In the graph above you can see that tornados are at an all time low in the past 60 years! (14) But what about Hurricanes? Here is a graph showing the number of days between hurricanes and this shows that the number of days between hurricanes is greatest at 76 days between hurricanes.The slope of this line is zero showing no trend of a massive storm increase. Sources 1. (http://www.drroyspencer.com...) 2. (http://www.sustainableoregon.com...) 3. (http://www.cnsnews.com...) 4. (http://newsbusters.org...) 5. (http://newsbusters.org...) 6. (http://www.geocraft.com...) 7. (http://www.thegatewaypundit.com...) 8. (http://ginacobb.typepad.com...) 9. (http://www.nytimes.com...) 10. (http://www.americasfreedomfighters.com...) 11. (http://joannenova.com.au...) 12. (http://scienceandpublicpolicy.org...) 13. (http://wattsupwiththat.com...) 14. (http://wattsupwiththat.com...)"	CON	155
155	S7852a724-A9f52ae80	Global Warming is likely impacted by humans.	Global Warming is likely impacted by humans.	PRO	156
156	Saac88cec-Af0fd4922	The Global warming phenomenon could be caused by other things	There are probably other factors which are contributing to the warming effect, both natural and man-made. However, calculations also show that the rise in temperature can be easily explained by the increased levels of CO2 in the atmosphere. Until another compelling explanation is put forward, this would seem to tbe the most likely cause. Also, just because something else could be causing global warming doesnt mean that it is. Also, change in land use and ubranization both cause changes in CO2 content in our atmostphere.If we cut down more trees, lesser trees will be available to absorb CO2. And the change in CO2 content causes global warming	CON	157
157	Saac88cec-A1344b073	Co2 Does Not Cause Global Warming	There is no scientifically valid mechanism for CO2 causing global warming.	PRO	158
158	Saac88cec-Ab6286f02	Co2 Does Not Cause Global Warming	The Global warming phenomenon could be caused by other things	PRO	159
159	Saac88cec-A3e7b2efa	Co2 Does Not Cause Global Warming	Global temperatures have always been changing despite Co2 increases	PRO	160
160	Saac88cec-A681f8e88	Co2 Does Not Cause Global Warming	7 Global warming is based on computer modelling and has had no empirical confirmation	PRO	161
161	S3b1f9ed6-Accda8c0c	Resolved: Man-made Global Warming Exists.	When it comes to scientists there are a total of 2,500 scientists that do believe in Global Warming, but when it comes to not believing in Global Warming there is a large amount that have signed a petition stating that they believe that Global Warming is a hoax. There is a current count of 31,487. (http://www.petitionproject.org...) and (http://www.informationliberation.com...) ======Conclusion===== In conclusion, we can see that most of my arguments have gone unrefuted by my opponent and I have shown countless times that even scientists believe that Global Warming is fake.	CON	162
162	S977ed4bc-A681fe9f4	The global warming hockey stick is bad science	"In this round, Con has not responded to any of the six points of my case that establish that the global warming hockey stick is bad science. Instead he has arguments that scientific expertise means nothing, and then a litany of personal attacks against me. I will comment on his arguments relative to expertise. The personal attacks are too silly to respond to; for the purposes of a debate I could be a computer program or the personification of evil, it doesn't matter. All that matters is the evidence and reasoning presented in the debate. There are at least two ways to identify bad science. One way is to identify what went wrong in producing the science. Another way is to prove that the claimed theory does not agree with observed reality. I pointed out errors in the derivation of the hockey stick in arguments 1 through 4. I presented disagreement with observed reality in 5 and 6. In both cases, it is important to establish that the evidence is credible. Therefore I used credible sources who support each of the arguments I made. I did not really solely or even predominantly upon expert opinion about the overall credibility of the hockey stick. For example, the hockey stick claims the MWP and the Little Ice Age did not exist; the Harvard-Smithsonian survey says it does. The Harvard-Smithsonian study carries considerable weight be of the integrity of the institution, much more than, for example, an assertion of an unsigned blog post. Contradiction my reality is sufficient to prove bad science. Back in the 1880s scientists studying aeronautics said that according to then-current theory that bumblebees cannot fly. They knew perfectly well that bees did fly, so their statement was an admission that the theory was wrong. They didn't know why it was wrong, but it was nonetheless proof that it was wrong. (Turns out that modeling the change of shape of the insect wings during flapping is critical.) Similarly, the hockey stick says the MWP did not exist. It did exist, so therefore the hockey stick is bad science. We don't need to know why it is bad, although we do. The hockey stick was intended to prove temperatures were rising exponentially. That hasn't happened, so therefore it is bad science. Turning to Con's specific arguments: Con asks ""How can you believe temperature are rising and falling at the same time?"" There is no question that there has been a general warming trend of the earths climate since the end of the Little Ice Age around the mid-1800's. That is evident in the Hadley data http://www.cru.uea.ac.uk... There are quite a few ups and downs around the general upward trend. This is contrary to the hockey stick claim, which is that there was no significant warming until recently when temperatures supposedly took off exponentially, and was predicted to keep climbing unimpeded. However, looking at the data after the hockey stick graph ended in 2000, it's clear that in the past few years the trend is slightly downward. Thus temperature is in a long term upward trend, but is not behaving at all like the hockey stick. The hockey stick is contrary to CO2 global warming math models. The CO2 models predict that if CO2 increases exponentially, then temperature will rise linearly. There is no theory that predicts a hockey stick curve, and indeed none is observed. Con claims, ""Traceable references mean nothing. ... PhD means nothing."" If so, then every bit of science is bad, since it is all based upon journal articles written and reviewed by credentialed scientists. If all science is bad, then the resolution is affirmed. Con claims ""Harvard means ... nothing"" and cites as proof an article about a scandal involving one guy in the medical school having a conflict of interest in cholesterol drugs. This is irrelevant to the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics that comprehensively verified the existence of the MWP. It provides no grounds to doubt the study results. Con agrees that experts in statistical methods are the ones who can appropriately judge whether Mann's methods were correct. Therefore the Congressional panel of experts in statistical methods provided that definitive judgment on Mann's derivation of the hockey stick. The panel said that Mann erred and the critics were correct. Con asserts, ""Apparently my opponent feels there is a systemic problem with statistical computer programs."" No, there is no problem with the computer programs. If a person hits his thumb with a hammer, the problem is not with the hammer. The problem is with users outside of the field of statistics sometimes applying the programs correctly. Better training in statistical methods would treat the problem, but alternatively the use use of consulting experts on the data analysis team would solve it. Note that when the climate data was fed into an unmodified Principle Component software package, the hockey stick disappeared and the MWP reappeared. What was required was to not modify the software. Con does not deny the problem with the bristlecone pine tree ring data, but says that I should not bring it up if I'm going to discuss the data analysis errors. There is nothing inappropriate in pointing out multiple errors of different types. Con then launches into a personal attack against me, claiming ""My opponent has suffered a blow to the head."" Among the unbelievable things I did, according to Con, was my agreement with Barack Obama on the gay marriage issue. Seems reasonable to me. I cite Con for bad conduct in his personal attacks. Con states, ""If I understand my opponent's position correctly: It is bad science to use statistical programs unless you are a statistician because no one else can understand them, and in fact only statisticians should be allowed to publish at all because what field does not use statistical analysis?"" I never said anything remotely similar to what Con asserts. I said Mann made a mistake in the processing of his climate data, and we know that he made a mistake because it was discovered by an expert statistician (McKitrick) and mistake was verified by an expert panel of statisticians. I commented that making a mistake in complex statistical analysis is not particularly surprising, because it is difficult. the climate scientists who originally refereed Mann's paper agreed it was difficult, saying they did not feel qualified to check the analysis. Then Con rambles incoherently, making more personal attacks. Again, this is bad conduct. Throughout the debate, Pro provided never addressed points 2, 4, and 6. He asked what the error was in the tree ring data (point 3) and I explained that it was shown not be a proxy for temperature as Mann assumed. He had no counter argument. Point 1, that inputting noise to Mann's algorithm produced a hockey stick was questioned, but never refuted by counter evidence. Con agreed that statistical experts were the one qualified to judge Mann's analysis, they did so and found that Mann erred. Finally, regarding point 5, there are now over 250 climate reconstruction establishing that the MWP and Little Ice Age did exist, contrary to the hockey stick. con merely asserts it is controversial. It isn't. For these reason, the resolution is affirmed."	PRO	163
163	S66bd9128-A2241dc41	Mankind Is the Main Cause of Global Warming	As Con, I will argue that mankind is indeed providing the main cause of global warming. I eagerly await my opponent's argument.	PRO	164
164	S3b1f9ed6-A5da0c347	Resolved: Man-made Global Warming Exists.	I'm going to extend across all of my other arguments as they have not been refuted. Contention 6: Global Warming Public Opinion First off, in a recent poll in the United States showed that 53% of Americans do not believe in Global Warming. (http://dailycaller.com...) In a study done amongst GeoSceintists they found that 645 found that Global Warming is not a problem and that it does not exist. This study was done last year. (http://www.forbes.com...)	CON	165
165	Se4d5d288-Aef615821	Global Warming is Largely Man-Made	Resolution: Global Warming is Largely Man-Made The definitions are obvious, and playing with semantics will result in a loss. Rules 1. BoP is split. 2. No semantics or trolling. 3. Follow the format. 4. Only sources may be posted externally. Any violation of the rules should result in a loss. Format R1: Acceptance R2: Constructive Case R3: Rebuttals R4: Rebuttals and Conclusion *Edit* This debate was going to be for the beginners tourney, but we have changed topic. But I'd like to debate this with someone, regardless. This debate should be impossible to accept. PM or comment if you wish to accept. If you manage to accept without my permission you get a free cookie. Thanks to lannan for accepting this debate!	PRO	166
166	S977ed4bc-A47e8b897	The global warming hockey stick is bad science	"Here it is: Our homework. http://en.wikipedia.org... Mann's research has been duplicated http://www.ucar.edu... MM05 was not about any mathematical error. http://74.125.95.132/search?q=cache:ig7aXxydRw8J:www.realclimate.org/dummies.pdf+hockey+stick+controversy&cd=5&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us but about whether the bristlecone pines should have been included. How did they get ""weighed 380 times?"" What characteristics did they have that made it inadvisable to include them? (My opponent's position, not the IPCC) Past reconstruction has problems http://www.realclimate.org... ""A scientist named Mann"" http://en.wikipedia.org...(scientist) ""Bad science"" from a Lead Author on the ""Observed Climate Variability and Change"" chapter of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Third Scientific Assessment Report (2001). He has been organizing committee chair for the National Academy of Sciences Frontiers of Science' and has served as a committee member or advisor for other National Academy of Sciences panels. He served as editor for the Journal of Climate and has been a member of numerous international and U.S. scientific advisory panels and steering groups. Dr. Mann has been the recipient of several fellowships and prizes, including selection as one of the 50 leading visionaries in Science and Technology by Scientific American, the outstanding scientific publication award of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), and recognition by the Institute for Scientific Information (ISI) for notable citation of his refereed scientific research. Mann is one of several climate scientists who contribute to the RealClimate blog. The IPCC is a UN outfit. I need to know what my opponent means by ""political"" so as not to include himself. http://en.wikipedia.org... My opponent does not believe global warming exists. It's pretty obvious my opponent has some, shall we say, questionable source material. Where on Earth is he getting this garbage? Why don't I just debate them? Here's some background: http://www.technologyreview.com... http://www.technologyreview.com... Honesty and reliability in scientific research. It's certainly an issue. Research fabricated. http://blogs.consumerreports.org... In fact Big Pharma http://www.BigBug.info... virtually owns our educational system. Debate protocol: First a good topic is selected. This has not been done. The Instigator takes a position on that topic and posts his opening argument, which includes why he is arguing as he is by making explicit the values he feels he is upholding, for example to win debates. A 40-1-2 record. The contender takes a position that disagrees with that of the other guy, and often posits different values, for example do you want good debates or not? They take turns promoting their own views and trashing the other guy's. Modern debating protocol is designed to allow a maximum of creativity, and allows me to question my opponent's values and criteria with respect to his position which includes his selection of the topic and restrictions he seems to think he is entitled to place on the debate, and the implicit assertion that this is a good topic and that these restrictons are good ones. It's normally not done in oral debates because why waste your precious three minutes of debating time trashing your judge but in this case hey I have three days. Why on Earth would anyone wany to debate this question? Normally in a debating tournament the topics are chosen with great care to reflect relevant social issues and to provide an enjoyable and meaningful debate for everyone. That is not the case here. The topic was chosen with great care to win debates with biased restrictions on the topic and to make it look like something was actually proven. We need to up the ante in this here side show. China and Japan have jointly declared war on the US but stipulated that it must be fought with chopsticks. Iceland has declared that the next World Cup must be played at the South Pole. I would like to know where the idea originated that a participant in a contest could dictate how the contest would be conducted and decided. My opponent's position, stated very clearly in his opening argument, is that the debate should be restricted as he demands. Opening argument. Well I disagree. Global warming and dishonest scientific research are social issues. But the kicker is the implicit statement that any thesis which supports an inaccurate hypothesis or has errors in the derivation of the data is ""bad science."" This is very clearly his opinion and is implied by his opening argument. We will be spending some time on this one. And, yes, define ""bad science."" Define ""is?"" Great idea. Define ""is."" When you start a debate there is a box for debate parameters and one for opening argrment. Anything in the opening argrment box is opening argument and subject to debate. The rules of debating are also clear. I must take a position that disagrees with my opponent. But I cannot do that until he has posited what value there is in so restricting the debate to the accuracy of the hockey stick graph as he demands. This he has not done. He must support this opinion. Why does he want to restrict the debate to such a narrow topic? He needs to posit some values that this would uphold, besides winning debates, and criteria for selecting a good debate topic, and show how these criteria support those values and how the topic meets those criteria. What I intend to do is to show that restricting the debate to the accuracy of the hockey stick graph as he demands is not a good idea. I need to contention against his values and for mine. How can I do this if he has not stated any? In layman's terms, who cares? My disagreement is leaning toward the form of some statement about oversight of scientific research. I look forward to a stimulating debate."	CON	167
167	Se4d5d288-A247890bc	Global Warming is Largely Man-Made	I accept and I would like to point out before the debate starts that in order for my opponent to win he must prove that Global Warming is Largely man-made, meaning that more than 50% is to be caused by humans. I now await my opponent's opening arguments.	CON	168
168	Sa50d3bff-A8e25d088	Resolved: Man-made Global Warming, on Planet Earth, Exists.	"My opponent agreed that the rule violation is a misunderstanding (see comments section). Whether you want to leave it alone or make it a conduct loss is up to the voters. Now let's get to the debate. I also appologize if I do not get to everything ahead of time as I will likely run out of characters. Contention 1: CO2 and Temperatures. Firstly let bring up just how much these accused compounds exactly warm the Earth's atmosphere. CO2 for example has the global warming potential of 1. Here are the other numbers. Carbon Dioxide -- 1 Methane -- 21 Nitrous Oxide -- 298-310 CFC's -- Various Water Vapor -- 0.25 [1] Now I just want you to keep this in mind for this next part here. We may observe that humans release approximately 35 gigatons of CO2 a year. [2] This is only 4.3% of the total amount of all Global Warming Gasses, however it is incrediably small when it comes to comparing the rest of the Global Warming gasses. If we observe the chart bellow we can see that Water Vapor is a large Contributor to Global Warming at 95% and CO2 comes in second. But here's the kicker. If we look at the Human contributed part that I'm about to post in the graph bellow we can see that it's very miniscule of 0.117% of all total Warming gasses. Now let's do some quick math here. CO2's increase was from what my opponent is claiming is from 295 ppm to 400ppm, a total of only 105 ppm. 1 Gigaton of CO2 is the equilivent of 2.13 ppm. [3] This means that increase of 105 ppm means a total of 49.29 gigatons. Since 1 gigaton of CO2 is the equivilance of .004% of the Greenhouse effect that means that 49.29 gigatons means an aditional .21% increase to Global Warming. This would account for a grand total of a 0.15 F increase in global temperature. This is a very measly amount and we can see that with my opponent's claims a simple 0.15 F increase isn't enough to melt glacers and have the effeccts that he is speaking of and it proves that this is NAUTRAL not man-made to fulfil his effects if they were real. Now remind yourself that Pro said in Round 2 that CO2 is responsable for LARGE amount of Global Warming. As we can plainly see here that this is incorrect. My opponent goes and attempts to manipulate data by showing back as far as 1955, but when we push things back to the year 1900 we can see that temperature levels are actually decreasing on a linear slope. Let us observe the above graph. Here I would like to point out the that the increase from Pre-Inustrial to Industrial era and the doubling of the CO2 leveling lead to a decrease in it's temperature. Also we can see that the 10 mile ""hot-spot"" above the tropics is actually absent. ""The computer models show that greenhouse warming will cause a hot-spot at an altitude between 8 and 12 km over the tropics between 30 N and 30 S. The temperature at this hot-spot is projected to increase at a rate of two to three times faster than at the surface. However, the Hadley Centre's real-world plot of radiosonde temperature observations shown below does not show the projected CO2 induced global warming hot-spot at all. The predicted hot-spot is entirely absent from the observational record. This shows that atmosphere warming theory programmed into climate models are wrong."" [4] Contention 2: Earth is cooling Here we can see the plotted Global Warming Hot Spot that was suppose to be there according to the IPPC, however we'll see that they're wrong. Why, it appears that this hotspot doesn't even exist! [7] You're probably asking yourself, why am I seeing this graph again? This is because the more CO2 we get the less warming there is. If we observe this graph we can see that the Warming has decreased with more CO2 that we've recieved. This shows that CO2 doesn't have that much of an impact on the tempterature like the math that I've proved it in my last contention. [5] Now I will agree that Eastbrook isn't good with predicting temperature change, but the IPCC is even worse, but whatever is causing the change it is highly unlikely that it's man made. Contention 3: Artic and Sea Levels THough my opponent likes to blow things out of perportion we can see that these sea levels rise and fall on their own. It's a natural cycle as I showed last round. The trend shows only a mere +/- 0.30 mm per year. ""The Proudman Oceanographic Laboratory estimates the rate of sea level rise at 1.42 plus or minus 0.14 mm/year for the period 1954 to 2003. This is less than the estimate of 1.91 plus or minus 0.14 mm/year for the period 1902 to 1953, indicating a slowing of the rate."" [6] We can see that 2.8 inches per 50 years isn't that much of an appocolyptic threat. Here is a graph from NOAA which shows that the sea level rise is very small and that the IPCC is way off as well as many other Warming ""experts"". [8] In the above graph we can see that despit Artic Ice slightly decreasing we can see that it follows the same patern throughout the year as the Ice melts in the summer and freezes in the winter. We can see that my opponents' sea ice level predictions are incorrect. [9] Which if sea ice is decreasing then explain the great sea ice exspansion of Antartica in 2012 shown bellow. It had a total of 20,000 miles more ice than average. Contention 4: Weather The NOAA has shown that Tornados are less frequent and occur less and less. Now the irony behind this is that it comes out at the same time as my opponent's sources which claims the exact opposite. [10] Also I do wish that my opponet reposts link number 7 as it is broken and I cannot access it, so for now I continue to extend across my NOAA Hurricane graphs from last round. Contention 5: Ocean Acidfication Here I Would like to report that we do not emmitt Cobalt2. (I know you meant CO2) If we do some basic Chemistry we can see that 1-6 on the pH scale is acid 7 is neutral and 8-14 is base. The Ocean on average is 8.2 which is a base. Now let's add in the factor of the average coral reef needs CO2 and the average reef can varry from 9.2 to 7.6 throughout the day and night showing that there is no accidfication. This CO2 added envirnment has been seen to increase coral growth by 2 cm per year. We can also see that these areas very by 0.3 pH pending on the area. [11][12] 1. (http://cdiac.ornl.gov...) 2. (http://volcanoes.usgs.gov...) 3. (http://www.geocraft.com...) 4. (http://www.friendsofscience.org...) 5. (http://joannenova.com.au...) 6. (http://www.lavoisier.com.au...) 7. (http://scienceandpublicpolicy.org...) 8. (http://www.c3headlines.com...) 9. (http://www.almanac.com...) 10. (http://wattsupwiththat.com...) 11. (http://objectivistindividualist.blogspot.com...) 12. (http://beforeitsnews.com...)"	CON	169
169	S70cb061-A7731ac36	Man-Made global warming exists* and poses a serious threat to humanity.	I accept. Definitions: GWP (Global Warming Potential) = The total effect on Global Warming per ppm.	CON	170
170	Sa50d3bff-A90401522	Resolved: Man-made Global Warming, on Planet Earth, Exists.	"Got it. From this round I will refer to Carbon Dioxide as CO2. Also, my round 2 sites are incorrectly entered. Here they are in respective order: http://climate.nasa.gov... http://climate.nasa.gov... http://climate.nasa.gov... http://data.giss.nasa.gov... http://earthguide.ucsd.edu... http://climate.nasa.gov... ==Rebuttal 1: CO2 and its effects== The statement that humans are not contributing to the emission of greenhouse gases is completely false. Many sites [1-3] point out that humans are, in fact, the most major cause of warming in modern days. ""Natural changes alone cant explain the temperature changes weve seen."" - Union of Concerned Scientists [2] ""Scientists have closed the case: Human activity is causing the Earth to get hotter."" - Environmental Defense Fund [3] And, if we were to agree with my opponent's logic, then his arguments are contradictory to his third graph - where he states that Carbon Dioxide is correlating with temperatures perfectly, which is true [4][5]: Keep in mind that both charts show increasing temperature and temperature increase rates, but short after the Industrial Revolution began, contrary to my opponent's selective graphs where he tries to disprove warming by selecting a range of 10,000 years, when really the Industrial Revolution only started in the 18th century [6]. My opponent's third graph, as proven, is contradicted by my opponent's statements above. Let us look at his two halves of his chart combined [7]: If the warming effect of CO2 is minimal, then how would the temperature correlate with it so perfectly? And even then, in the years before, the temperature would drop almost instantly after it reached its peak, but the warming period we are in is actually holding itself up there, rather than just being pulled down. Also, we cannot use this graph anyway as the time scale is way too large to see our effects in recent years. Moreover, his charts could be misleading as he has not cited any links to substantiate his second, third and fourth charts. Let us look at his fourth chart. His fourth chart tells us that water vapor and other natural causes cover the vast majority of contributions to the greenhouse effect, whilst human emissions only cover about 0.28% of contributions. However, this is very misleading, because it does not count in ANY OTHER FACTORS. For example, we already know that humans have deforestated the vast majority of forests on Earth [8]: Wildfires, which already contribute to the greenhouse effect [9], are affecting the area of forests worldwide [8]: Trends in wildlife area burned in wildfire in U.S. ""Wildfire emissions can have remarkable impacts on radiative forcing, says Liu."" - USDA [9] ""Tropical deforestation contributes as much as 90% of the current net release of biotic carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. This change may represent as much as 20% - 30% of the total carbon flux due to humans - i.e., rivaling the carbon release due to fossil fuel burning."" - Global Change [9] Humans, as shown bove, are acidifying the ocean and deforestating (cutting down trees from forests), which is labeled as one of the more major causes of the greenhouse effect on my opponent's chart. As for my opponent's logarithm argument, this is also contradicting the correlation of CO2 and temperatures because the logarithm would not be able to cause a perfect correlation. Thus this argument is null. ==Rebuttal 2: The Earth is cooling== My opponent states that his hot spot argument was dropped, when in reality I had responded to this with two paragraphs of evidence. My opponent is straw-manning here. My opponent even goes on to state that I dropped his CO2 argument, to which I responded with even more text. That went unrefuted by my opponent. Also, the ""Hockey Stick"" graph is actually proven many times to be quite accurate (at least in the warming period) by studies of different sources, like corals, stalagmites, tree rings, boreholes and ice cores. All confirm that the 20th century saw the most dramatic increase in global temperatue in recent history. ""Since the hockey stick paper in 1998, there have been a number of proxy studies analysing a variety of different sources including corals, stalagmites, tree rings, boreholes and ice cores. They all confirm the original hockey stick conclusion: the 20th century is the warmest in the last 1000 years and that warming was most dramatic after 1920."" - Skeptical Science [10] Note that my opponent's next graph is a very selective one and that its time scale is literally over a ten-year period. Plus, the grap shows the temperature variations, which ends up being above zero. This graph is contradictory to my opponent's arguments. Also, my opponent's quote and evidence that global warming as stopped is also quite selective as it is over a period of 8 years. My opponent is blatantly biased as he only used selective time periods instead of an actually unbiased time period, where it focuses on where humans have been speculated to have started to contribute to global warming. ==Rebuttal 3: Arctic Ice and Sea Levels== Again, my opponent's graph here only shows a time period of 45 years. Let us look at a graph starting from 0 CE, and as we can see towards the end the sea level rises dramatically [11]: s://motherjones.com...; alt=""Different ways to measure sea level over time"" /> As you can see the sea level has risen over 20 cm since the start of the Industrial Revolution and has been very consistent throughout this period. My opponent then goes on to reinstate his argument that Arctic Ice is increasing, which I had already refuted with my NASA evidence, which was collected in late 2014, while my opponent uses data from 2006 and 2013. Even then, my opponent only uses two photographs of the Arctic Ice, each from two single, separate days, which again is subjective because it doesn't show anything over time, but rather it only shows separate days. Again disregard this piece of evidence. Also, even though I concede the Antarctic Ice expansion, I had proven Arctic Ice was losing ice more than twice as fast than the Antarctic Ice grew. Thus this point is null. ==Rebuttal 4: Hurricanes and Tornadoes== My opponent drops my argument that tornadoes do not link to global warming. My opponent is misunderstanding my hurricane intensity argument. It has been shown that when sea levels rise (which I proved true) stronger hurricanes get stronger, but weaker hurricanes show little to no trend. [12] ""But more significantly, Elsner found weaker hurricanes showed little to no trend while stronger hurricanes showed a greater upward trend. In other words, stronger hurricanes are getting stronger. This means that as sea temperatures continue to rise, the number of Category 4 and 5 hurricanes hitting land will inevitably increase."" - Skeptical Science [12] My opponent even states that I dropped his R2 graph, which I responded to throughout the debate. The link was only broken. My opponent keeps straw-manning that I drop his arguments when a lot of my arguments have been left unrefuted. I ask my opponent to stop. ==Rebuttal 5: Ocean Acidification== My opponent is saying that since the ocean has not acidified to a certain point that can be deemed critical. However my opponent must notice that small parts of the ocean are acidifying to the point that organisms are dying and being replaced with anaerobic organisms, which produce methane, which further contributes to global warming. Parts of this are directly caused by normal everyday pollution, which an kill animals and bleach corals, which has been proven above to have alreday happened. ==Dropped arguments== My opponent drops the following arguments/rebuttals: - That CO2 levels have been ising exponentially over the last few centuries - That CO2 levels 600,000,000 years ago are irrelevant since not even the dinosaurs had existed then - That my opponents graphs are very selective and biased - That the Arctic is losing ice more than twice as fast than the Antarctic is gaining ice - That tornadoes do not have a link to global warming - That ocean acidification, even if not at a critical level, is affecting the temperature of the surroundings. I would like to remind my opponent that he must not respond to these dropped arguments in the last round as I cannot respond to them. Any new rebuttals to these dropped arguments should be disregarded. ==Conclusion== I have effectively refuted all my opponent's arguments, countered my own, and also proven that my opponent has dropped some of my arguments. The resolution is affirmed. [1] http://planetsave.com... [2] http://www.ucsusa.org... [3] http://www.edf.org... [4] http://www.skepticalscience.com... [5] http://warmgloblog.blogspot.com... [6] https://www.google.com... [7] http://www.skepticalscience.com... [8] http://www.globalchange.umich.edu... [9] http://www.srs.fs.usda.gov... [10] http://www.skepticalscience.com... [11] http://www.motherjones.com... [12] http://www.skepticalscience.com..."	PRO	171
171	S842a72e0-Ad1a89a73	Climate Shift	"I thank my opponent for their response. ""Well my oppenet pretty much just had a argument that says 'the scientist say its right, so its right.'"" Actually what I'm saying is that scientists have proven sufficiently that it's real, so it is real. As for the rest of my opponents argument, it might be compelling to consider if it was confirmed by any evidence. Since my opponent cited no sources, we can only assume that this is only from his personal knowledge and expertise. A) my overwhelming bulk of sources overrides this. B) My opponent is not an environmental scientist, and even if he was, his opinion would be drowned by the 95% consensus Furthermore, my opponents points regarding the shift being ""normal"" should be cross referenced with my points regarding the scientific consensus that it is not ""normal."""	PRO	172
172	S842a72e0-A9aa18376	Climate Shift	Forward all points.	PRO	173
173	S842a72e0-Acc060318	Climate Shift	I accept.	CON	174
174	S80500e82-Ad949a84c	Climate shift	I regret my opponents forfeit. I hope he can return promptly. Forward all points.	PRO	175
175	S80500e82-A9c647396	Climate shift	Forward all points.	PRO	176
176	S80500e82-Acc855776	Climate shift	I disagree and I am ready to debate!	CON	177
177	Sa50d3bff-Aac6ce2e5	Resolved: Man-made Global Warming, on Planet Earth, Exists.	I have done this topic before, but there wasn't a lot of clash so I want to reinstate this. This debate is impossible to acept. Apply in comments. The voting floor is set at 2000. ______________________________________________________________ I will add in definitions to prevent semantics arguments from arising. DEFINITIONS Man-made: Created by a human or caused by a human. Global Warming: The state of which the Earth's temperature progressively and abnormally rises, which is attributed to the Greenhouse Effect that is caused by increased levels of carbon dioxide, other greenhouse gases, and pollutants in general. Planet Earth: The 3rd closest planet from the Sun in the solar system, which is known for being the only known planet that currently sustains life. Exists: Is in existence; have objective reality or being. Rules: 1. Breaking any rules (except for rules related to voting) will result in automatic forfeiture of all seven points to the opponent. If both sides break the rules, votes will be placed as normal. Invalid votes will result in reporting the vote. 2. No semantics. 3. No forfeiture. 4. No Ad Hominem OR mere insults 5. Plagiarism is absolutely prohibited. 6. All arguments must be contained within the character limit. Words or characters on videos, soundtracks or pictures are exempted and do not apply. Sources are also exempted. 7. (Branches off from above rule) Extra arguments in the comments section are forbidden. 8. The debate must be followed under the below structure: Round 1: Acceptance. Round 2: Opening arguments and Constructive Case, NO REBUTTALS Round 3: More arguments, Rebuttals and Strengthening of original case Round 4: Final arguments, Clarification of case, counter-rebuttals and rebuttals Round 5: Clarification of case, Counter rebuttals, rebuttals, closing statements, NO NEW ARGUMENTS 9. No trolling or spamming. 10. No cheating (Gish-gallop, asking for votes in your favor, etc.) As shown, first round is acceptance. I look forward to a fun and intriguing debate!	PRO	178
178	S977ed4bc-Ae3abf8f8	The global warming hockey stick is bad science	"The hockey stick does not predict exponential temperature rise. How can you believe temperature are rising and falling at the same time? Traceable references mean nothing. PhD means nothing. Harvard http://www.nytimes.com... means nothing Arguments are not true of false depending on who made them or what their academic credentials are. or what their traceable references are. or whether they are writing for Wikipedia or the New England Journal of Medicine In fact it often takes many years for things to sort themselves out. According to my opponent's line of reasoning: The question of whether or not The question of whether or not Mann applied the correct procedures in processing the data input to the hockey stick algorithms is definitely a question to be judged by experts in statistics, not by climate scientists is therefore a question to be judged by those as expert or more expert than those expert enough to judge whether or not Mann applied the correct procedures in processing the data input to the hockey stick algorithms since they have to be at least as smart. Once again, this is a logical consequence of my opponent's line of thought, not mine. My argument has already stated that measuring expertness of a scientist is folly Measuring expertness of a scientist according to what field they are in is worse than folly. Apparently my opponent feels there is a systemic problem with statistical computer programs. Then that is the situation that needs to be addressed. But my opponent is not addressing it. My opponent is addressing cambial dieback and temperature proxies and CO2 fertilization of tree growth and high-altitude bristlecone pine tree-ring chronologies And Donald Graybill and Sherwood Idso and whether the anomalous twentieth century growth was unrelated to the temperature from nearby weather stations. or not. My opponent is: Pro Global Warming Except for the cooling part. Against gay marriage. Pro Border ""Fence"" Wall http://narcosphere.narconews.com... Pro Tobacco Rights Pro War on Terrorism Pro Waterboarding http://www.newser.com... Pro WTO Why don't we debate these topics? What does it add up to? Even Fox News Syndrome cannot account for such confusion. My opponent has suffered a blow to the head. Recently, since this debate topic represents a sharp departure from previous debates. There is only one person in the world who uses the term ""confirmation fallacy"" but if I understand it it means that just because you have a lot of dead dinosaurs does not mean there are no live ones because studying the past is not relevant to predicting the future. I need to know more about this cooling trend. If I understand my opponent's position correctly: It is bad science to use statistical programs unless you are a statistician because no one else can understand them, and in fact only statisticians should be allowed to publish at all because what field does not use statistical analysis? On and on but you get the idea. It would be difficult to find a position more ludicrous. We must look to psychiatry for the answer. Why has the entire world gone nuts over a non-issue? Ad Hominem? http://en.wikipedia.org... It's the tactic nutcases use. Republican nutcases especially. http://www.factcheck.org... The rules again. http://wiki.idebate.org... First the Instigator takes a position and elaborates. Then, and this is crucial: The negative debater must disagree with the resolution's statement. not necessarily oppose in its entirety as is commonly supposed but disagree. This is a good rule. My position, then is that it is better to address the problem than to seek to place blame. And academic credentials are not as important as I'll finish that one later. This is clearly a disagreemennt. It should not be difficult to assert superior values than my opponent once he posits any. and it is a good application of the ""disagreement"" rule. It motivates the Instigator to exercise a little more care in selecting topics. and makes for better and more relevant debates. and is a good solution to mutual irrelevance. Of course it is better to address any problem than to seek to place blame but let's not go overboard all at once. After all my opponent is so set on restricting the scope of the debate. Let's just go with It is better to address whatever systemic problem it is that gives rise to cases similar to the single case my opponent is describing than to seek to place blame for that single case. God agrees."	CON	179
179	Sde92ac8b-A2bc71b2f	Anthropogenic Climate Change Exists	I accept.	CON	180
180	S7f312d2e-A5fd548d7	Global Warming is killing us	My opponent has forfeited. I should win.	CON	181
181	S977ed4bc-Ac294c02d	The global warming hockey stick is bad science	"My opponent has been plagiarizing ""Shattered Consensus: The True State of Global Warming"" by Patrick Michaels http://en.wikipedia.org... who seems to have a few ethical problems of his own. And while I'm at it I might as well take a swipe at statisticians as well. Known as actuaries and organized into the Casualty Actuarial Society and the Actuarial Society of America, they are nailing down their standards so that Einstein would have to go back to school. Couple that with an accounting degree and you will have plastic surgeons complaining that they do all the work and take all the risks and don't get paid as much. Many insurance company executives are actuaries. ""cambian"" http://en.allexperts.com... http://news.surfwax.com... The ""Cooling trend"" was due to the eruption of Mt Pinatubo. Why has my opponent not brought up the closing of the Soviet weather stations? We need the original paper and supporting documentation and that book he read. It's time once again to remind our audience how ridiculous my opponent's definition is of ""bad science."" Results are all that count, he claims. Correct conclusion=good science. Let me offer my own. Bad science is irresponsible media coverage of science. Looks like a good site: http://www.badscience.net... Statistics as bad science http://www.badscience.net... A new offensive. Books http://www.amazon.com... I haven't read it but it certainly is all the rage. TV http://www.channel4.com... http://www.badscience.net... My opponent is suporting his case with arguments about who said what about Mann's paper and what their qualifications are. The only way we can answer the question is to examine the original paper in its original context. This includes the grant proposal and supporting documents, and the historical situation. How much was paid for this research? Well that's how much research one can expect. The Wikipedia article does prove something. It proves how much effort has been wasted on a ridiculous assertion. My opponent's position: The Hockey Stick Is Bad Science. My position: It is better to address whatever systemic problem it is that gives rise to cases similar to the single case my opponent is describing than to seek to place blame for that single case. Academic dishonesty http://en.wikipedia.org... Now we each take turns supporting our own position and trashing the other guy's. My opponent has not responded to my position. My response to his position and supporting arguments is: We cannot resolve the question be studying what people said about the paper. we have to look at the paper itself. This has not been done."	CON	182
182	Sdc9f0311-A952429a	There is no anthropomorphic global warming	"It is not true that anything that can cause warming is in fact causing current warming. In your case, you argue that co2 is a green house gas and can be proven to be a warming agent. I do not disagree. Where I disagree is whether or not this co2 is causing today's warming. In most historical episodes of warming, co2 trails temperature. If it was a forcing agent, one would expect the exact opposite. Co2 has been much higher in the past and temperatures were lower: http://www.nolanchart.com... ""In fact, 450 million years ago when we were in the depths of the coldest period the Earth has had in half a billion years, CO2 levels were 10 times above today's! Even using the last century as evidence for a dependent relationship is meaningless. 65% of the warming this century occurred in the first three decades, and then, while CO2 levels continued to rise, temperatures fell for four decades in a row."""	PRO	183
183	S8006a72b-A6e15564f	Global Warming is Man-Made	I accept.	CON	184
184	Sc09112b2-Acca724aa	Humanity is the main cause of global warming.	I accept and look forward to the debate	CON	185
185	S7852a724-A87e41e4	Global Warming is likely impacted by humans.	Thank you for reading.	CON	186
186	S70f48902-Af5735b0c	Mankind Is the Main Cause of Global Warming	Extend all arguments.	PRO	187
187	S39f3ff96-A47a47c1c	Global warming is likely (and mostly) anthropogenic	I accept	CON	188
188	S39f3ff96-A4e37c455	Global warming is likely (and mostly) anthropogenic	This is for Subutai's environmental tournament. In this debate, I am for the resolution. The BOP will be even since this is a contested issue--BOP shall not be negotiated. The debate structure is first round acceptance, second round arguments (no rebuttals), third round rebuttals/defense, fourth round rebuttals/defense. My opponent is familiar with the wording, and definitions are not needed. Have fun!	PRO	189
189	Saac88cec-A5c53b001	Co2 Does Not Cause Global Warming	Natural Variability Alone is Insufficient to Account for the Bulk of the Warming	CON	190
190	Saac88cec-A928d1463	Co2 Does Not Cause Global Warming	Measurements are inaccurate	PRO	191
191	Saac88cec-A8770e0d4	Co2 Does Not Cause Global Warming	All of the points in the yes camp are bunkum and easily dismissed	CON	192
192	Saac88cec-A95943b6c	Co2 Does Not Cause Global Warming	CO2 is a heavy gas	PRO	193
193	Saac88cec-Af94cd339	Co2 Does Not Cause Global Warming	When Earth warms up, other planets in the Solar system warm up as well	PRO	194
194	Saac88cec-A54cc069a	Co2 Does Not Cause Global Warming	No time to hold back	CON	195
195	Saac88cec-A21c59a14	Co2 Does Not Cause Global Warming	Co2 does not hold in heat!	PRO	196
196	Saac88cec-A275c44d5	Co2 Does Not Cause Global Warming	Many scientists think it does	CON	197
197	Saac88cec-Af028a3eb	Co2 Does Not Cause Global Warming	Oceans regulate the amount of CO2 in the air through absorption equilibrium	PRO	198
198	Se4d5d288-Af04135ca	Global Warming is Largely Man-Made	Forfeiture. Give my opponent all 7 points.	CON	199
199	Saa3d5131-A925cf522	Mankind Is Not the Main Cause of Global Warming	I accept this challenge and I accept all of my opponents rules and definitions! I look forward to a challenging and educational debate. Thanks to Subutai for allowing me to take on this challenge!	CON	200
200	Se62a5fda-Aeff84e3a	Official May Tournament Final: Global Warming	Forfeiture.	CON	201
201	Se62a5fda-A139faac0	Official May Tournament Final: Global Warming	Forfeiture	CON	202
202	Se62a5fda-A73fe2649	Official May Tournament Final: Global Warming	I accept this challenge.	CON	203
203	Se62a5fda-A5c370a1	Official May Tournament Final: Global Warming	Extend.	PRO	204
204	Se62a5fda-A139faac0	Official May Tournament Final: Global Warming	Forfeiture	CON	205
205	Se62a5fda-A713ce6d	Official May Tournament Final: Global Warming	I extend my arguments. I hope my opponent is completely alright and happy, and is doing well. I request Con to confirm if he is alright, and I sincerely hope he is.	PRO	206
206	Saac88cec-A644ef47b	There is no scientifically valid mechanism for CO2 causing global warming.	Carbon dioxide absorbs all radiation available to it in about ten meters. More CO2 only shortens the distance, which is not an increase in temperature. In other words, the first 20% of the CO2 in the air does most of what CO2 does, and it doesnt do much. http://www.nov55.com	PRO	207
207	Saac88cec-A126fc477	There is no scientifically valid mechanism for CO2 causing global warming.	 The carbon dioxide greenhouse effect provides a scientifically valid mechanism. CO2 produces a warming effect not by soaking up the radiation in its immediate vicinity, like a sponge, but by raising the effective radiating level of the atmosphere to a colder layer.  The atmosphere doesnt act as a single unit, but is made up of hundred of different layers. Some of the energy radiated from Earth is stopped in each of these layers. The energy is then re-radiated in a random direction, but on average the energy is moving either up or down. The atmosphere gets thinner as altitude increases, so eventually the radiation will reach a layer high enough and thin enough to escape to space.  If you increase the concentrations of a greenhouse gas in the atmosphere, the thin upper layers will become more opaque and thus absorb more of the IR; therefore the place where the majority of the energy finally escapes moves to a higher level. These higher levels are much colder (until you reach the stratosphere, but as most infrared photons escaping to space are emitted by the troposphere, this can be ignored), and so they do not radiate heat very well. Thus the rate that radiation escapes to space is lower, and the planet will take in more than it radiates. As the higher levels emit some of the excess downwards, the lower levels will warm all the way down to the surface.  The imbalance will remain until the higher levels get hot enough to radiate as much energy back out as the planet is receiving.  19th century physicist John Tyndall described the effect neatly like so: As a dam built across a river causes a local deepening of the stream, so our atmosphere, thrown as a barrier across the terrestrial rays, produces a local heightening of the temperature at Earths surface.	CON	208
208	Saac88cec-A1e313c6d	7 Global warming is based on computer modelling and has had no empirical confirmation	World expert in analysis of stochastic and hydrological processes, professor Demetris Koutsoyiannis, has shown that the models have made no valid predictions during the last 20 years; McKitrick, McIntyre and Herman have shown the model predictions of temperature exceed the observable trends by as much as 300%. Ferenc Miskolczis 3 papers, in 2004, 2007 and 2010 show that the greenhouse effect has not changed in the last 61 years, therefore proving that the slight heating which has occurred over the 20thC has not been due to greenhouse gases such as CO2.	PRO	209
209	S3b1f9ed6-Acadcfe07	Resolved: Man-made Global Warming Exists.	now con resorts to making up facts about the beliefs of scientists. 98% of scientists agree with me. if 98% of engineers said a bridge was unsafe, would you want to travel down it?	PRO	210
210	S3b1f9ed6-Af73ae6f2	Resolved: Man-made Global Warming Exists.	we each have directly contradictory facts. my sources are reliable. yours are scattershot. plus 98% of scientists agree with me. if 98% of engineers said a bridge was unsafe, would you want to travel down it?	PRO	211
211	S3b1f9ed6-A4f5c2607	Resolved: Man-made Global Warming Exists.	i argued that we are getting warmer due to humans, one step at a time, irrefutably. con's sources are unreliable and largely inaccurate. 98% of scientists agree with me. if 98% of engineers said a bridge was unsafe, would you want to travel down it?	PRO	212
212	Sa50d3bff-A455dbe9e	Resolved: Man-made Global Warming, on Planet Earth, Exists.	I do appologize for this finial round. I have to forfeit here as my friend is in the hospital with Leukemia and I've been busy with him and making sure he's alright. I've already PM'd my opponent reguarding this and he'll post in the comments the verdict if its a loss of conduct or a loss of the debate. I deeply appologize to him as this has been a great debate.	CON	213
213	Sa50d3bff-A8220b7da	Resolved: Man-made Global Warming, on Planet Earth, Exists.	I accept.	CON	214
