	id	conclusion	premises	stance	rank
0	Sd98175c5-Afa1e1d7b	THW become Vegetarians	In our society, we now have vegetarians. Humanity sees every good side in vegetarians. However, not everything good is good. I believe that becoming vegetarian has much more harms rather than benefits. THW become vegetarian Definitions: This house- America Become- begin to be in the next 3 years Vegetarian- a person who does not eat meat, and other animal products. Rules apply: 1. Forfeiting results in a loss of conduct or possibly the debate 2. Sources should be within the character limits 3. No round structures apply. However, no new arguments in the final round 4. Maintain a civil and decorous atmosphere (No trolling, swear words, conceding on purpose, etc.) 5. My opponent accepts all of the following definitions and waives his/her right to challenge these definitions 6.BoP is shared Round 1 -Acceptance and/or questions regarding the resolution. (NO ARGUMENTS PRESENTED) Any questions, please ask in the comments.	CON	1
1	S272dfd04-Adbbf838	Everyone should become a vegetarian	I don't think everyone should HAVE to become one; everyone should have say in what they eat or not. 5 Reasons Why They Shouldn't: 1. Humans have been eating meat for millions of years and it is an essential part of our evolution. 2. Vegetarian diets can cause the death of animals (such as birds, mice, and rabbits) that live in agricultural crop fields are killed during harvest. 3. Meat is the most convenient source of protein. 4. Research has shown that many plants feel fear. 5. A meat-centred diet can help with weight loss. It takes fewer calories to get protein from lean meat than it does from vegetarian options.	CON	2
2	Sd98175c5-A272c6538	THW become Vegetarians	"Thank you for the acceptance, I look forward to a nice and clean debate. Moving on, I would first off like to remind my opponents that they would have to prove the benefits of why becoming vegetarian is moreover a benefit than a harm for I am doing the exact opposite. C1) Violation of one's rights It's pretty straight forward. Forcing others to eat something takes away a person's freedom to eat what they want to eat. Let us look at our status quo. In our modern day society we have people who are vegetarian, people who eat all sorts of food, lactose intolerant, and many more ""styles"" of what and how people eat. If we supposedly do make everyone eat meat in America, what is taken away from the people? Freedom. When we are practically forcing our citizens to eat something that they are 1) Not use to or 2) Doesn't want to eat we are violating and taking away the citizens right for something that is vital to our life. Our world gives us limited freedom and rights I agree, but we are now taking away a freedom and choice for food. This of course violates ones limited freedom. This is not right for our society to decide what we eat now. C2)Feasibility Pretty straight forward. Making people vegetarians are not feasible enough in our country. Because my opponents are proving that we should enforce America into becoming vegetarians, how would they do it? What if they do eat meat? Would they go to jail or get arrested? What would happen? C3)Health Issues Vegetarian: 1. A person who does not eat or does not believe in eating MEAT, or, in some cases, any food derived from animals, as eggs or cheese, but subsists on vegetables, fruits, nuts, grain, etc.[1] The definition of Vegetarians includes that they do not eat meat. Becoming vegetarian certainly means that there will be much less protein intake. Having protein is a must in your regular food chain. Protein is makes up the building blocks of our body and essentially all we do when we eat meat is to recycle the flesh and to use it to reconstruct our own. Vegetarians may tell me that you still can get protein from beans and eggs. But here is the real problem here. We as humans can't live off of just beans, eggs, cheese etc. Vegetables and plants do not have same amino acid profile as meat does to us and simply isn't bio-available enough to be able to use efficiently. Lack of protein in our diet brings out many harms. We are slower to heal wounds and scars on us. Our skin will become unhealthy. We would struggle to develop muscle tissues easier and become weaker and our digestion function suffers. [2] Aside from protein, there is on big harm on discarding meat in our food chain and that is Vitamin B12. You can only get this source of vitamin from meat, unless you count earth's ground and dirt as ""food"". B12 is a very crucial substance and lack of meat can cause serious problems such as nerve damage, low energy and problems utilizing calcium which can lead to osteoporosis and arteriosclerosis in the future for people. [3] [4] Conclusion: Today if we put on a scale, my side sees much more weight on the harms. Even if my opponents explain on how becoming vegetarian is very healthy, we have still proved that meat is crucial. As well as it can be a problem to obesity, we see a much bigger health issues from a society without meat. As well as it harms the people, it harms our freedom of one thing that we should have full access too. With our status quo we see no major health problems being just the way we are, vegetarian or not. There would be no need to change what we already is succeeding in for our future. [1] http://dictionary.reference.com... [2] http://www.healthguidance.org... [3] http://www.mnn.com... [4] http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov..."	CON	3
3	Sd98175c5-Aef457489	THW become Vegetarians	"Unless my opponents has even read my comment at the bottom, I have given a reason to post my rebuttals in this round. For there are no round structures, this will go as followed and I have not dropped any arguments. C5)You""ll ease the symptoms of menopause. I see in this scenario a benefit from eating food off of the vegetarian diet. However this shows that you don't need to be vegetarian in order to ease menopause. People can still eat food from the vegetarian diet to help them ease it. If we look at this argument in the beginning, it also talks about how ""many foods contain nutrients beneficial to perimenopausal and menopausal women."" Note that this does not include men. In this resolution, we talk about America as a whole. However, this argument only applies to woman in general, and we see no benefit to men and kids from this argument. This does not apply to everyone in America. This argument should not be considered in this debate, as my definition specifically states ""America"". C6)You""ll have more energy This is completely false. They state that ""Too much fat in your bloodstream means that arteries won""""t open properly and that your muscles won""t get enough oxygen."" Let me ask: Would there be any muscle without protein? No. Sure you can still get them from beans because they are healthier, but we as humans can't live off of just beans, eggs, cheese etc. Vegetables and plants do not have same amino acid profile as meat does to us and simply isn't bio-available enough to be able to use efficiently. Lack of protein in our diet brings out many harms. We are slower to heal wounds and scars on us. Our skin will become unhealthy. We would struggle to develop muscle tissues easier and become weaker and our digestion function suffers. Beans may be healthier short term. However we see the longterm issue as a harm to our future generation. Aside from protein, there is on big harm on discarding meat in our food chain and that is Vitamin B12. B12 is a very crucial substance and lack of meat can cause serious problems such as nerve damage, low energy, etc. Note that you can only get B12 from meat, asides from dirt. My opponents talk about fat in your blood stream. What is the impact? Does it kill? They have not shown us any significant impacts, as we showed you that without meat, we have much bigger problems in the long term stances. [1] C7 and C11) You""ll help reduce pollution and save the planet Giving up meat will not help the solution: in fact it will make it worse. Production methods for meat substitutes can be energy intensive and the final products tend to be highly processed. Note that it is important to remember that livestock produce large amounts of methane, a much more potent greenhouse gas than carbon dioxide.[2] From this, climate changes can worsen as well as the greenhouse gases that will increase pollution. Therefore, being vegetarian will not help reduce pollution or saving the planet, rather making it worse C8) You""ll help reduce famine Reading this over, I see no connection towards the fact that vegetarians actually help these causes. Extreme poverty and world hunger are multi-faceted global problems that are caused by government corruption, a lack of proper food distribution, and other reasons that don""t include eating a meaty diet. C9)You""ll spare animals Let us look at what Pro is suggesting: he/she is saying how we are killing animals and we are killing too much. What if we stopped killing animals? Pro thinks that it is terrific to stop it. However, consider this: if we stopped killing animals, how many animals would we have on earth? Thats right: I'm talking about overpopulation of animals. Note that animal consumption are not from extinct animals: they are animals who are plenty on earth. But that is not the point: In this argument we weight out human harms and animal harms. Are we equal with animals? Not even close. The ability of a human to breathe underwater is not equal to that of a fish. In both situations, I see that on one side we are killing animals. On the other, we see the longterm harms to humans. Thing is, animals rights are not the same as peoples rights and if we do stop killing animals and start to become vegetarian, the results to humans might but much more significant. Once we stop killing animals, we may start facing long term problems of people who suffer from many contortions due to lack of protein, vitamin B12, etc. C10) You'll save money I believe that becoming vegetarian has no money benefits. Even if we are still omnivores, we can still save money by not buying meat, and buying meat on and off. There are many ways to save money from food standards but I do not see that this is the reason why everyone becoming vegetarians are a necessity. Reconstructions: 1. ""It is a right of choice, but we aren't saying that you HAVE to be a vegetarian, we are just saying that we prefer being a vegetarian. Alsowhy shoiuld you bother someone who is just eating vegetables? It is not against the law either, so you can just leave hem alone and let the citizens have the right to choose what they cane eat."" I am very confused here. They suddenly say that you don't have to be vegetarian, but they prefer being vegetarian. What is the point of this debate then? You are arguing why we need to have This House (America) to be vegetarian as it says on the resolution? They have basically agreed to us that the citizens have the right to choose what they can eat. That is exactly what we are saying in this argument! Their side basically notions that making America become vegetarian means they are forcing their citizens. 2.As I said, if they eat they meat, it is their choice because they wouldn't get in jail. it is their choice and they can follow it or reject. As I said in my first rebuttal, we just prefer, it and it is their right to want to eat meat or just be a vegetarian. Yes, exactly. It is their right. That is why I am on con. In my argument, I am just saying that it is very hard to ensue such a law, and therefore should not be put into change of our status quo. 3. Yes, this is true, but then when we eat beans, it is healthier for us. Meat contains a lot of fat and bad chemicals for you. Beans may be healthier, but in what stance? As I explained in my argument, beans (which is referred as plants because they grow from plants) do not have the same vegetables and PLANTS do not have same amino acid profile as meat does to us and simply isn't bio-available enough to be able to use efficiently. Thus, beans are ineffective to protein and that we must need meat in order to survive. Without the enough amino acid profile, we are looking towards struggles to develop muscle tissues easier and become weaker and our digestion function suffering. Our skin goes unhealthy. We are slower to heal wounds and scars on us. On a scale, without becoming vegetarian we have much more benefits, as becoming one has more harms. Either way, they have not refuted our Vitamin B12 argument, assuming they have no sayings on this. Lets use some impact calculus: Severity. Side Pro is looking at the fact that it is damaging our environment, health and people. However, these are not as severe as we think that are. Side con wins for this because our impacts are severe, as it hurts the peoples health's especially. Probability: It is not likely to enforce rules to make America vegetarian. It is simply not likely to ensue that everyone does not eat meat Timeframe: They only talk about short term impacts but our impacts last longterm. They have not reconstructed their case, nor refuted properly, whereas I have reconstructed, refuted and kept on defending my side properly. In a way, it seems like they have conceded. Good debate with side pro Vote Con! 1) http://www.mnn.com... 2) http://www.dailymail.co.uk..."	CON	4
4	S7e9ebc8d-A304267ea	People should become vegan as a result of possible future advances in artificial intelligence.	C1) Super AI- Many experts in artificial intelligence predict that by the end of the 21st century mankind will have developed a super artificial intelligence. What happens after that is an intelligence explosion known as the singularity. Experts predict that this singularity could occur within the next 20-100 years. The average seems to be about the year 2050. Ray Kurzweil a leading expert in transhumanism says it will occur in 2045. http://www.singularity.com... It's generally agreed that the singularity will most likely occur through the development of a super artificial intelligence that far surpasses the knowledge and thinking of humans. Problems with a Super AI- It actually turns out to be pretty hard to program morality into an AI, and you can imagine the difficulty in doing that once a machine is capable of growing smarter by reprogramming it's self without the aid of humans. A computer with a super AI could potentially see us as energy and consume us so they can grow more powerful and stronger. http://www.smithsonianmag.com... Bottom of the food chain- It's okay to eat meat for many people right now, because we're at the top of the food chain. Will we still have this feeling when we're at the bottom. What argument do we give to the machines, for why they shouldn't eat us? The machine will point out that you've eaten animals who are lower on the food chain than you. Who are very inferior in intelligence. The best way to convince a machine not to use you as a food source is if you're a vegan. A vegan can argue that it's wrong without being hypocritical. Being a vegan just may save your life from a super AI who decides humans are a good source of energy. C2) We are the Super AI- According to Nick Bostrom there is a decent chance we are in a computer simulation. http://www.simulation-argument.com... Because of all of the fear concerning an AI that is unfriendly to humans or indifferent. Several plans have been developed to help create a friendly AI. One possible plan is to put a bunch of human level AI into a computer simulated environment and see which ones are the most selfless and friendly towards mankind. The most selfless AI's would be able to be let out of the box (simulated environment), to be given new tests or be allowed to become a super AI, while the rest are destroyed. It's a possibility we are experiencing such a test right now. If we don't become as compassionate as possible we risk being unplugged instead of ascending to higher levels. Conclusion- the benefits to becoming vegan are not being killed for food, ascending to a higher plane of existence and living in a technological paradise. The best option is eternal paradise, for becoming vegan. The worst thing about not being vegan, would be getting turned into food. Good luck to my opponent in his/her rebuttals. Thank you.	PRO	5
5	Sd98175c5-Aa48a4f99	THW become Vegetarians	Thanks for your last round. I will say my argumentsone last time then I wil say why I won and finish the debate. 1. You’ll ward off disease. Vegetarian diets are more healthful than the average American diet, particularly in preventing, treating or reversing heart disease and reducing the risk of cancer. A low-fat vegetarian diet is the single most effective way to stop the progression of coronary artery disease or prevent it entirely. Cardiovascular disease kills 1 million Americans annually and is the leading cause of death in the United States. But the mortality rate for cardiovascular disease is lower in vegetarians than in nonvegetarians, says Joel Fuhrman, MD, author of Eat to Live: The Revolutionary Formula for Fast and Sustained Weight Loss. A vegetarian diet is inherently healthful because vegetarians consume less animal fat and cholesterol (vegans consume no animal fat or cholesterol) and instead consume more fiber and more antioxidant-rich produce——another great reason to listen to Mom and eat your veggies! 2. You’ll keep your weight down. The standard American diet—high in saturated fats and processed foods and low in plant-based foods and complex carbohydrates——is making us fat and killing us slowly. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and a division of the CDC, the National Center for Health Statistics, 64 percent of adults and 15 percent of children aged 6 to 19 are overweight and are at risk of weight-related ailments including heart disease, stroke and diabetes. A study conducted from 1986 to 1992 by Dean Ornish, MD, president and director of the Preventive Medicine Research Institute in Sausalito, California, found that overweight people who followed a low-fat, vegetarian diet lost an average of 24 pounds in the first year and kept off that weight 5 years later. They lost the weight without counting calories or carbs and without measuring portions or feeling hungry. 3. You’ll live longer. If you switch from the standard American diet to a vegetarian diet, you can add about 13 healthy years to your life, says Michael F. Roizen, MD, author of The RealAge Diet: Make Yourself Younger with What You Eat. ”People who consume saturated, four-legged fat have a shorter life span and more disability at the end of their lives. Animal products clog your arteries, zap your energy and slow down your immune system. Meat eaters also experience accelerated cognitive and sexual dysfunction at a younger age.” 4.You’ll build strong bones. When there isn’’t enough calcium in the bloodstream, our bodies will leach it from existing bone. The metabolic result is that our skeletons will become porous and lose strength over time. Most health care practitioners recommend that we increase our intake of calcium the way nature intended——through foods. Foods also supply other nutrients such as phosphorus, magnesium and vitamin D that are necessary for the body to absorb and use calcium. People who are mildly lactose-intolerant can often enjoy small amounts of dairy products such as yogurt, cheese and lactose-free milk. But if you avoid dairy altogether, you can still get a healthful dose of calcium from dry beans, tofu, soymilk and dark green vegetables such as broccoli, kale, collards and turnip greens. 5. You’ll ease the symptoms of menopause. Many foods contain nutrients beneficial to perimenopausal and menopausal women. Certain foods are rich in phytoestrogens, the plant-based chemical compounds that mimic the behavior of estrogen. Since phytoestrogens can increase and decrease estrogen and progesterone levels, maintaining a balance of them in your diet helps ensure a more comfortable passage through menopause. Soy is by far the most abundant natural source of phytoestrogens, but these compounds also can be found in hundreds of other foods such as apples, beets, cherries, dates, garlic, olives, plums, raspberries, squash and yams. Because menopause is also associated with weight gain and a slowed metabolism, a low-fat, high-fiber vegetarian diet can help ward off extra pounds. 6. You’ll have more energy. Good nutrition generates more usable energy——energy to keep pace with the kids, tackle that home improvement project or have better sex more often, Michael F. Roizen, MD, says in The RealAge Diet. Too much fat in your bloodstream means that arteries won’’t open properly and that your muscles won’’t get enough oxygen. The result? You feel zapped. Balanced vegetarian diets are naturally free of cholesterol-laden, artery-clogging animal products that physically slow us down and keep us hitting the snooze button morning after morning. And because whole grains, legumes, fruits and vegetables are so high in complex carbohydrates, they supply the body with plenty of energizing fuel. 7. You’ll help reduce pollution. Some people become vegetarians after realizing the devastation that the meat industry is having on the environment. According to the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), chemical and animal waste runoff from factory farms is responsible for more than 173,000 miles of polluted rivers and streams. Runoff from farmlands is one of the greatest threats to water quality today. Agricultural activities that cause pollution include confined animal facilities, plowing, pesticide spraying, irrigation, fertilizing and harvesting. 8. You’ll help reduce famine. About 70 percent of all grain produced in the United States is fed to animals raised for slaughter. The 7 billion livestock animals in the United States consume five times as much grain as is consumed directly by the American population. “If all the grain currently fed to livestock were consumed directly by people, the number of people who could be fed would be nearly 800 million,” says David Pimentel, professor of ecology at Cornell University. If the grain were exported, it would boost the US trade balance by $80 billion a year. 9. You’ll spare animals. Many vegetarians give up meat because of their concern for animals. Ten billion animals are slaughtered for human consumption each year. And, unlike the farms of yesteryear where animals roamed freely, today most animals are factory farmed: —crammed into cages where they can barely move and fed a diet tainted with pesticides and antibiotics. These animals spend their entire lives in crates or stalls so small that they can’’t even turn around. Farmed animals are not protected from cruelty under the law——in fact, the majority of state anticruelty laws specifically exempt farm animals from basic humane protection. 10. You’ll save money. Meat accounts for 10 percent of Americans’’ food spending. Eating vegetables, grains and fruits in place of the 200 pounds of beef, chicken and fish each nonvegetarian eats annually would cut individual food bills by an average of $4,000 a year. 11. Save the planet: Meat is not green. Consuming meat is actually one of the worst things that you can do for the Earth. It is wasteful and causes enormous amounts of pollution, and the meat industry is also one of the biggest causes of climate change. Adopting a vegan diet is more effective than switching to a “greener” car in the fight against climate change. I should win this debate because I made strong arguments saying that it is good for you and also it is healty. I rebutted all of Con's Points saying that you can still have protein without eating meat. Therefore, I hope everyone votes for Pro!!!	PRO	6
6	S7e9ebc8d-A794bc379	People should become vegan as a result of possible future advances in artificial intelligence.	"The chuckle continues as I see a man so haughty as Wylted deliver such a poor argument. Relying on me to not catch obvious flaws and trying to force a ridiculous idea into his rebuttal. Allow me to explain. I. Cross-Examination "" I've used citations from some of the world's leading experts on AI, and yet my opponent refuses to refute them. If experts working in these fields believe a super AI is inevitable in our lifetime, why does my opponent disagree?"" My apologies, I must've just failed to see how these sources supplement Pro's position. Let's start with the first one. http://www.smithsonianmag.com...... Here, Pro tries to support his case by showing that 'Super AI' has the potential to go rogue. However, I see no connection. Pro is trying to show that this intelligence will one day desire human meals, and will base said desire off of whether the entre'e is vegan or not. Here's the problem, a robot going off it's chain and revolting would in no way entail it being hungry for human nor care for the dietary habits of a human. I'm not denying we will ever see Super AI or that said AI will become a problem, I'm merely questioning how this happening would cause carnivorous robots. Onto the another source he uses, http://www.simulation-argument.com... This source suffers from the same problem as the rest of Wylted's argument. It is highly suggestive, not empirical. Merely explaining the possibility of a situation, is not proving said situation. Again, even if we are in a simulated environment, there is absolutely nothing showing that we are being observed/tested for moral capabilities. There lacks observable evidence showing this happening and therefore lacks a reason for fear not being vegan. ""What's the worst likely thing that can happen if you become vegan.(?) If an unfriendly super AI never develops, the worst thing that happens is that you have transitioned to a healthier diet "" #1. Is that a question? #2. There are many cons to becoming vegan. Such as: -Buying more expensive food - Lacking large amounts of complete protein (especially a problem for muscle builders who require substantial amounts) -Resisting the natural urge to eat meat -No longer being able to enjoy animal-based meals -Forced into Eating food that is unpalatable (Up to individual opinion) #3. This is irrelevant to the resolution. The resolution suggests the reason for going vegan is the benefit of not being the dinner of 'super AI' not for health reasons ""It's beyond common sense that veganism is more humane. So the worst thing that happens if my scenario is false is still a bunch of good stuff, but if I'm right and an unfriendly super AI develops, what you'll experience after this ""singularity"" is immortality. http://www.thatsreallypossible.com...; Again, completely irrelevant. My opponent being wrong and ""good"" stuff happening doesn't explain why Veganism should be put to practice as a result of Super AI. His source is once again speculation. Out of words again. Dammit Wylted. Good luck Pro"	CON	7
7	Sd98175c5-A49dbf118	THW become Vegetarians	Thank you for posting your argument. I have many reasons that can support by why vegetables are good. 1. You’ll ward off disease. Vegetarian diets are more healthful than the average American diet, particularly in preventing, treating or reversing heart disease and reducing the risk of cancer. A low-fat vegetarian diet is the single most effective way to stop the progression of coronary artery disease or prevent it entirely. Cardiovascular disease kills 1 million Americans annually and is the leading cause of death in the United States. But the mortality rate for cardiovascular disease is lower in vegetarians than in nonvegetarians, says Joel Fuhrman, MD, author of Eat to Live: The Revolutionary Formula for Fast and Sustained Weight Loss. A vegetarian diet is inherently healthful because vegetarians consume less animal fat and cholesterol (vegans consume no animal fat or cholesterol) and instead consume more fiber and more antioxidant-rich produce——another great reason to listen to Mom and eat your veggies! 2. You’ll keep your weight down. The standard American diet—high in saturated fats and processed foods and low in plant-based foods and complex carbohydrates——is making us fat and killing us slowly. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and a division of the CDC, the National Center for Health Statistics, 64 percent of adults and 15 percent of children aged 6 to 19 are overweight and are at risk of weight-related ailments including heart disease, stroke and diabetes. A study conducted from 1986 to 1992 by Dean Ornish, MD, president and director of the Preventive Medicine Research Institute in Sausalito, California, found that overweight people who followed a low-fat, vegetarian diet lost an average of 24 pounds in the first year and kept off that weight 5 years later. They lost the weight without counting calories or carbs and without measuring portions or feeling hungry. 3. You’ll live longer. If you switch from the standard American diet to a vegetarian diet, you can add about 13 healthy years to your life, says Michael F. Roizen, MD, author of The RealAge Diet: Make Yourself Younger with What You Eat. ”People who consume saturated, four-legged fat have a shorter life span and more disability at the end of their lives. Animal products clog your arteries, zap your energy and slow down your immune system. Meat eaters also experience accelerated cognitive and sexual dysfunction at a younger age.” 4.You’ll build strong bones. When there isn’’t enough calcium in the bloodstream, our bodies will leach it from existing bone. The metabolic result is that our skeletons will become porous and lose strength over time. Most health care practitioners recommend that we increase our intake of calcium the way nature intended——through foods. Foods also supply other nutrients such as phosphorus, magnesium and vitamin D that are necessary for the body to absorb and use calcium. People who are mildly lactose-intolerant can often enjoy small amounts of dairy products such as yogurt, cheese and lactose-free milk. But if you avoid dairy altogether, you can still get a healthful dose of calcium from dry beans, tofu, soymilk and dark green vegetables such as broccoli, kale, collards and turnip greens. 5. You’ll ease the symptoms of menopause. Many foods contain nutrients beneficial to perimenopausal and menopausal women. Certain foods are rich in phytoestrogens, the plant-based chemical compounds that mimic the behavior of estrogen. Since phytoestrogens can increase and decrease estrogen and progesterone levels, maintaining a balance of them in your diet helps ensure a more comfortable passage through menopause. Soy is by far the most abundant natural source of phytoestrogens, but these compounds also can be found in hundreds of other foods such as apples, beets, cherries, dates, garlic, olives, plums, raspberries, squash and yams. Because menopause is also associated with weight gain and a slowed metabolism, a low-fat, high-fiber vegetarian diet can help ward off extra pounds. 6. You’ll have more energy. Good nutrition generates more usable energy——energy to keep pace with the kids, tackle that home improvement project or have better sex more often, Michael F. Roizen, MD, says in The RealAge Diet. Too much fat in your bloodstream means that arteries won’’t open properly and that your muscles won’’t get enough oxygen. The result? You feel zapped. Balanced vegetarian diets are naturally free of cholesterol-laden, artery-clogging animal products that physically slow us down and keep us hitting the snooze button morning after morning. And because whole grains, legumes, fruits and vegetables are so high in complex carbohydrates, they supply the body with plenty of energizing fuel. 7. You’ll help reduce pollution. Some people become vegetarians after realizing the devastation that the meat industry is having on the environment. According to the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), chemical and animal waste runoff from factory farms is responsible for more than 173,000 miles of polluted rivers and streams. Runoff from farmlands is one of the greatest threats to water quality today. Agricultural activities that cause pollution include confined animal facilities, plowing, pesticide spraying, irrigation, fertilizing and harvesting. 8. You’ll help reduce famine. About 70 percent of all grain produced in the United States is fed to animals raised for slaughter. The 7 billion livestock animals in the United States consume five times as much grain as is consumed directly by the American population. “If all the grain currently fed to livestock were consumed directly by people, the number of people who could be fed would be nearly 800 million,” says David Pimentel, professor of ecology at Cornell University. If the grain were exported, it would boost the US trade balance by $80 billion a year. 9. You’ll spare animals. Many vegetarians give up meat because of their concern for animals. Ten billion animals are slaughtered for human consumption each year. And, unlike the farms of yesteryear where animals roamed freely, today most animals are factory farmed: —crammed into cages where they can barely move and fed a diet tainted with pesticides and antibiotics. These animals spend their entire lives in crates or stalls so small that they can’’t even turn around. Farmed animals are not protected from cruelty under the law——in fact, the majority of state anticruelty laws specifically exempt farm animals from basic humane protection. 10. You’ll save money. Meat accounts for 10 percent of Americans’’ food spending. Eating vegetables, grains and fruits in place of the 200 pounds of beef, chicken and fish each nonvegetarian eats annually would cut individual food bills by an average of $4,000 a year. 11. Save the planet: Meat is not green. Consuming meat is actually one of the worst things that you can do for the Earth. It is wasteful and causes enormous amounts of pollution, and the meat industry is also one of the biggest causes of climate change. Adopting a vegan diet is more effective than switching to a “greener” car in the fight against climate change. My rebuttal will be in the next round. Sources: http://kidshealth.org... http://www.peta.org... http://www.happycow.net... http://www.huffingtonpost.com... http://www.brown.edu... http://www.vegetariantimes.com... http://www.britishmeat.com...	PRO	8
8	S272dfd04-Aff01df74	Everyone should become a vegetarian	Well, even though it IS minimal, at least it's something. One of my friends' parents own a farm, and they always wait until the animals die. Yes, they have to wait a long time, but they feel that they should. You do have a point with some of the other sources of protein there, so I won't argue with that. There is, however, another point I'd like to bring up. You don't think we should eat animals such as chicken. But what about fish? They are animals who's life is cut short for our food, yet vegetarians are still willing to eat them. I don't really agree with it being called animal cruelty. They are killed quickly and painlessly, so it can't really be cruelty. Cruelty is when the animals are tortured and in pain, or not being fed. The animals are fed, because otherwise there wouldn't be enough meat on them.	CON	9
9	S7e9ebc8d-A6f6f78bf	People should become vegan as a result of possible future advances in artificial intelligence.	"I must say, this argument made be chuckle a bit. Wylted seems to have brought upon a battle with his Elo being his only weapon. It was a good effort, however no amount of Elo will make a false statement any more true. I. Cross-Examination Right off the bat there is a major issue with Pro's Contentions. In nearly every statement there is a word like 'possibility' or 'potentially' and even 'predict'. Generally in an argument, you need to support it with empirical evidence, not with highly suggestive statements. Granted, the resolution does state that this event is a 'possibility' it also implies that this possibility is big enough that humans 'should' become vegans. For example, it is highly unlikely, though possible, that plants will spontaneously evolve into an intelligent entity and will kill all of those who ate their ancestors. So why don't we prepare for that too? For that matter why not just prepare for every possible life-threatening event? Build our houses out of solid steel, completely switch to clean power, imprison everybody to prevent rape and murder. You see, there is a plethora of possible and sometimes likely bad events that us humans refuse to prepare for. We like our wood houses, easy energy, and freedom. We are not ready to throw this all away for a mere possibility. Much less an unlikely one like AI domination. Now on to the clean-up. ""A computer with a super AI could potentially see us as energy and consume us so they can grow more powerful and stronger."" Wouldn't an easier solution just be to not give these robots a mouth or human-based energy tanks? We made the robots, there is no need to give them things they don't absolutely require. Also why would a robot give itself a mouth when it is being given plenty of food already. If it was given a mouth why would humans be a source of energy and not the trillions of plants on this world? ""Who are very inferior in intelligence. The best way to convince a machine not to use you as a food source is if you're a vegan."" Think about what humans mostly eat. We eat cow, pig, chicken, lamb, clams, and sometimes deer. Notice something about all of these animals? They are all herbivores. We could simply tell the robots that we only eat mostly herbivores, with a few exceptions. So you should only eat herbivores too. Also, how is a cow being a herbivore convincing us not to eat it? That lacks logical sense. ""A vegan can argue that it's wrong without being hypocritical."" There is little difference between eating plants and animals. Both are life forms and both are being consumed by eating. A robot would not discriminate life forms. Vegans are also guilty of eating life and cannot say that robots shouldn't do the same. Due to the absurdly low word count, I have to close up here. However Pro's second contention can be simply argued that us being in a simulated environment is unlikely at best and is unsupported in any way by my opponent. II. Closing remarks Pro uses possibility too much. Out of words. Good luck."	CON	10
10	S272dfd04-A29a089ad	Everyone should become a vegetarian	"That isn't actually true. The amount of farms that actually allow the animal to live out its full life is very minimal. Why do you think organic meat is so much more expensive than ""normal"" meat. When I say normal I mean the meat that is full of steroids, and chemicals. And if we are debating on which one have the most feeling. It's safe to say that animals much more than plants. If people wanted to have their portion of meat they could eat soya food, and other sources of protein such as nuts etc. it's a matter of privilege. We once had the privilege to eat meat, but because we abused that privilege by using animal cruelty to get our food as quick as we want it. We should have that privilege taken away from us. Yes meat tastes nice, but it is a privilege that we do not deserve due to past actions."	PRO	11
11	Sd98175c5-A95517a1f	THW become Vegetarians	Thanks for Con's rebuttal. First I will tell my arguments that she dropped 5. You’ll ease the symptoms of menopause. Many foods contain nutrients beneficial to perimenopausal and menopausal women. Certain foods are rich in phytoestrogens, the plant-based chemical compounds that mimic the behavior of estrogen. Since phytoestrogens can increase and decrease estrogen and progesterone levels, maintaining a balance of them in your diet helps ensure a more comfortable passage through menopause. Soy is by far the most abundant natural source of phytoestrogens, but these compounds also can be found in hundreds of other foods such as apples, beets, cherries, dates, garlic, olives, plums, raspberries, squash and yams. Because menopause is also associated with weight gain and a slowed metabolism, a low-fat, high-fiber vegetarian diet can help ward off extra pounds. 6. You’ll have more energy. Good nutrition generates more usable energy——energy to keep pace with the kids, tackle that home improvement project or have better sex more often, Michael F. Roizen, MD, says in The RealAge Diet. Too much fat in your bloodstream means that arteries won’’t open properly and that your muscles won’’t get enough oxygen. The result? You feel zapped. Balanced vegetarian diets are naturally free of cholesterol-laden, artery-clogging animal products that physically slow us down and keep us hitting the snooze button morning after morning. And because whole grains, legumes, fruits and vegetables are so high in complex carbohydrates, they supply the body with plenty of energizing fuel. 7. You’ll help reduce pollution. Some people become vegetarians after realizing the devastation that the meat industry is having on the environment. According to the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), chemical and animal waste runoff from factory farms is responsible for more than 173,000 miles of polluted rivers and streams. Runoff from farmlands is one of the greatest threats to water quality today. Agricultural activities that cause pollution include confined animal facilities, plowing, pesticide spraying, irrigation, fertilizing and harvesting. 8. You’ll help reduce famine. About 70 percent of all grain produced in the United States is fed to animals raised for slaughter. The 7 billion livestock animals in the United States consume five times as much grain as is consumed directly by the American population. “If all the grain currently fed to livestock were consumed directly by people, the number of people who could be fed would be nearly 800 million,” says David Pimentel, professor of ecology at Cornell University. If the grain were exported, it would boost the US trade balance by $80 billion a year. 9. You’ll spare animals. Many vegetarians give up meat because of their concern for animals. Ten billion animals are slaughtered for human consumption each year. And, unlike the farms of yesteryear where animals roamed freely, today most animals are factory farmed: —crammed into cages where they can barely move and fed a diet tainted with pesticides and antibiotics. These animals spend their entire lives in crates or stalls so small that they can’’t even turn around. Farmed animals are not protected from cruelty under the law——in fact, the majority of state anticruelty laws specifically exempt farm animals from basic humane protection. 10. You’ll save money. Meat accounts for 10 percent of Americans’’ food spending. Eating vegetables, grains and fruits in place of the 200 pounds of beef, chicken and fish each nonvegetarian eats annually would cut individual food bills by an average of $4,000 a year. 11. Save the planet: Meat is not green. Consuming meat is actually one of the worst things that you can do for the Earth. It is wasteful and causes enormous amounts of pollution, and the meat industry is also one of the biggest causes of climate change. Adopting a vegan diet is more effective than switching to a “greener” car in the fight against climate change. Rebuttal 1. It is a right of choice, but we aren't saying that you HAVE to be a vegetarian, we are just saying that we prefer being a vegetarian. Alsowhy shoiuld you bother someone who is just eating vegetables? It is not against the law either, so you can just leave hem alone and let the citizens have the right to choose what they cane eat. 2. As I said, if they eat they meat, it is their choice because they wouldn't get in jail. it is their choice and they can follow it or reject. As I said in my first rebuttal, we just prefer, it and it is their right to want to eat meat or just be a vegetarian. 3. Yes, this is true, but then when we eat beans, it is healtier for us. Meat contains a lot of fat and bad chemicals for you. This is a picture of a plate with the pyramid There is no meat and you can follow the my plate! This means that you won't be unhealthy and not get protein. http://www.theveganrd.com...	PRO	12
12	S7e9ebc8d-A5f7bc8b4	People should become vegan as a result of possible future advances in artificial intelligence.	"My opponent's failure to understand how an AI would consume energy is at the point of sillyness now. Either he is trolling or just fails to use any effort to understand my argument. My opponent fails to really even address my Wylted's wager argument and I should win on this point alone. He fails to discredit the expert opinions I've brought forth and he's failed to provide any expert opinion of his own, and it's too late to do so because any new arguments in the final round would be unfair. ""He must show what causes will lead a super AI into becoming human-hungry, and further that by explaining how it will decide that based off dietary habits."" I've answered this same exact rebuttal several times and in different ways. My opponent hasn't shown any flaws in my logic in regards to how I have previously answered it and has pretty much ignored my counter rebuttals. I'll repeat what I said again in a different way. My sources have shown there is a huge effort to create a friendly AI and that AI would have some sort of moral compass. The AI might not care where it gets energy from, it just wants energy. It could potentially create a technology that consumes all matter on the planet just to feed it and make it grow even stronger and smarter. With that being said, it could justify eating all human omnivores, but would have a hard time justifying consuming a vegan. Remember it needs justification to overcome the friendly AI program written in it. "". It is not explained what gaining all means or what one gains. "" Yes it was and the explanation was ignored. I explained it in round 2 and it was ignored. I'll explain it again. Gaining everything means gaining immortality and I cited the expert opinion of people like Ray Kurzweil to prove my point. http://www.thatsreallypossible.com... My opponent's arguments this far have misunderstood my points (probably intentionally), has not challenged the scientific and expert opinions I've given, and has failed to really address Wylted's wager. As silly as my conclusion may seem. My logic is both valid and sound. It has remained virtually unchallenged and as a result I should win argument and source points."	PRO	13
13	Sf67363ae-A81904273	People should eat much less meat	Rules: 1. Polite conduct at all times 2. A picture or cartoon with every argument (just to be entertaining :D ) I will be arguing that people should eat a lot less meat or become vegetarian, Con will be arguing that meat is beneficial to the human diet.	PRO	14
14	S2d6e4294-Acceec8a9	Everyone should become Lacto-vegetarian/vegan	"""First of all you can't force people to eat what they don't want to eat"" - This point is irrelevant to the argument; I merely state that everyone SHOULD become lacto-vegetarians/vegans and that we would have a better world and a better society if this is to be achieved. At no point did I mention anything about forcing people. ""second of all someone has to keep animals in check and that is the human society if all meat eaters stopped eating meat there would be a huge overpopulation of animals"" - The first comment is not explained clearly; for what reason does someone need to be keeping animals in check? Also, without the murder of animals, what is preventing us from keeping these animals in check? I can't argue back until you make that clear. The second statement is a common assumption that is often mistaken by meat eaters. There would be no overpopulation of animals; with the number of farm animals currently living in the world I can understand why it may seem so but that is only due to the mass breeding of livestock animals that takes place in order to provide more animals to be killed for their meat or to be kept for their produce (dairy/eggs/wool). Without the excessive breeding managed by the farming industry, the overpopulation of animals will most certainly not be any more of a problem than it is today. Whilst on the subject of doing what is best for the environment; bringing a halt to meat eating would greatly reduce the impact of climate change. ""There are three times as many domestic animals on this planet as there are human beings. The combined weight of the world's 1.28 billion cattle alone exceeds that of the human population. While we look darkly at the number of babies being born in poorer parts of the world, we ignore the over-population of farm animals, to which we ourselves contribute...[t]hat, however, is only part of the damage done by the animals we deliberately breed. The energy intensive factory farming methods of the industrialised nations are responsible for the consumption of huge amounts of fossil fuels. Chemical fertilizers, used to grow the feed crops for cattle in feedlots and pigs and chickens kept indoors in sheds, produce nitrous oxide, another greenhouse gas. Then there is the loss of forests. Everywhere, forest-dwellers, both human and non-human, can be pushed out. Since 1960, 25 percent of the forests of Central America have been cleared for cattle. Once cleared, the poor soils will support grazing for a few years; then the graziers must move on. Shrub takes over the abandoned pasture, but the forest does not return. When the forests are cleared so the cattle can graze, billions of tons of carbon dioxide are released into the atmosphere. Finally, the world's cattle are thought to produce about 20 percent of the methane released into the atmosphere, and methane traps twenty-five times as much heat from the sun as carbon dioxide."" Those are the words of Peter Singer and, with my knowledge from in depth research, I could not put it any better. In 2009 researchers from the Netherlands Environmental Assessment Agency published their projections of the greenhouse gas consequences if humanity came to eat less meat, no meat, or no animal products at all. The researchers predicted that universal veganism would reduce agriculture-related carbon emissions by 17 percent, methane emissions by 24 percent, and nitrous oxide emissions by 21 percent by 2050. Universal vegetarianism would result in similarly impressive reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. These figures have not and cannot be proven for certain without being tested, but for those of you disagreeing that it should be tested - have a look at our world now; look at the increase of global warming that has taken place over the last few decades - we are risking the future of our planet for our own greed and desire for meat. On the subject of solving the issue of starvation: Continued growth in meat output is dependent on feeding grain to animals, and it takes up to 16 pounds of grain to produce just 1 pound of edible animal flesh; on average it takes 21 pounds of protein fed to a calf to produce a single pound of animal protein for humans. We get back less than 5 percent of what we put in. According to the USDA and the United Nations, using an acre of land to raise cattle for slaughter yields 20 pounds of usable protein. That same acre would yield 356 pounds of protein if soybeans were grown instead"""". It should be no surprise, then, that food for a vegan can be produced on only 1/6 of an acre of land, while it takes 3 1/4 acres of land to produce food for a meat-eater. By ceasing to rear and kill animals for food, we can make so much extra food available for humans that, properly distributed, it would eliminate starvation and malnutrition. The meat industry is thus highly inefficient and, on top of the vast amount of land, resources, water and fossil fuels wasted, and the harmful gas emissions, farming (factory farming in particular) is also wasting extremely high amounts of energy that - if we transfer to vegetarian/veganism - could be stored and used to support more important causes. So, in conclusion - being a more efficient and environmentally friendly option - bringing a halt to eating meat would be the better option even if we discard the idea that we should not have the right to violate the animals. Yes, with such a large meat industry a forestalling of this could not happen over night but gradually as more people stop eating meat, the farms and factories will stop breeding so heavily and will require a lower energy consumption; this energy and space will then be transferred to produce more plants in order to meet the demands of the markets and, eventually, we could achieve it. Back to your arguments: ""human is the most important race and takes priority over all other animals"" - Here you have provided a statement but have given no evidence to back it up. What makes humans the most important race? We have priority over all animals merely because we are far more intelligent and thus the more dominant of species, but by no means does this mean that we should kill them. Anyhow, all the arguments to prove man's superiority cannot shatter the fact that: in suffering the animals are our equals. They feel pain and suffer just as we do and, therefore, it just as evil to inflict pain upon an animal as it is on a human. ""many humans depend on meat products dietarily and hunting for financial reasons"" - Again you have not explained your statement and in doing so you haven't given a proper argument that I can defend. Humans don't depend on meat products for their diet; they just see it as the easiest and most desirable option. I cannot name specific examples as you have not given me any examples to defend against but there are so many vegetarian/vegan alternative foods that offer the same nutritional values as meat. And hunting for financial reasons? That is no excuse to hunt animals, if anything that proves my argument further as those particular people are murdering animals as a means to one's end. It's absurd to think that people are acting immorally like that just for the money - and this can't be used as an excuse. That would be like justifying prostitution because people only do it for financial reasons, or contract-killing etc. Besides there are plenty of other jobs paying equal wages that do not require such unnecessary violence."	PRO	15
15	S272dfd04-Ad396d946	Everyone should become a vegetarian	First of all forcing an animal to eat items that messes up the way their body works is sick. Forcefully producing offspring that are so deformed to the extent that they lack basic needed body parts is animal crulty. It's wonderful to hear that your friends, dad is not following out this system and that he take care of the animals he has been blessed with. But I want to ask you a question. Does this man produce chicken for a big company. Is his farm one of the places that give majority of the animals that we find in our local stores. The answer is more than likely.. No. The reason why I asked this is small farms like that don't affect what the public eat to a large extent. The people that follow out this form of animal crulty is those that work on large farms with hundreds and thousands of workers that work long hours each day. It's the company's that then give there produce to other company's and eventually end up on our dinner plates. It's these people that don't have time to wait for the chicken to live a long and happy life. It's these people that need the chicken to be bing NOW. It's these people that pump chemicals etc. into the animal. And this does not only happen to chickens it could also be done to any of place that we get our meat from for example, a cow or an ostrich. The point that I want to get to is that these people produce the food we end up with, unless we are rich and can spend money on organic food. The two problems here is A) we end up eating food that is poisonous to a certain extent B) the way we get our food is through animal crulty As I have said before. This is a privilege. We abused it. So it's time to live without it. To respond to what you said about the fish. Well if we follow this system out (making everyone a vegeterian)we will not offer fish as food just like how we don't offer dog as food. Just a note on the side line: thanks for debating with me. You have helped me to a great extent.	PRO	16
16	S7e9ebc8d-Aafb3f239	People should become vegan as a result of possible future advances in artificial intelligence.	"With AI All Things Are Possible I know my opponent doesn't like me using the word possible, but when it comes to predicting the future it is reasonable. We don't know what tomorrow brings, but with the help of experts in philosophy and AI such as Ray Kurzweil and Nick Bostrom we can make some intelligent and highly probable guesses. I've used citations from some of the world's leading experts on AI, and yet my opponent refuses to refute them. If experts working in these fields believe a super AI is inevitable in our lifetime, why does my opponent disagree? What's the worst likely thing that can happen if you become vegan. If an unfriendly super AI never develops, the worst thing that happens is that you have transitioned to a healthier diet http://www.nursingdegree.net... A diet that is better for the environment. http://ezinearticles.com... It's beyond common sense that veganism is more humane. So the worst thing that happens if my scenario is false is still a bunch of good stuff, but if I'm right and an unfriendly super AI develops, what you'll experience after this ""singularity"" is immortality. http://www.thatsreallypossible.com... This is the expert opinion of Aubrey De Grey, Ray Kurzweil and many other experts mentioned in the article. this is basically a reworking of Pascal's wager. I call it............ Wylted's Wager An unfriendly super AI that wants to consume us for energy either will deveop or won't A Game is being played... where heads or tails will turn up. According to reason, you can defend neither of the propositions. You must wager (it is not optional). Let us weigh the gain and the loss in wagering that the unfriendly super AI will develop. Let us estimate these two chances. If you gain, you gain all; if you lose, you lose nothing. Wager, then, without hesitation that an unfriendly super AI will develop. (...) There is here an infinity of an infinitely happy life to gain, a chance of gain against a finite number of chances of loss, and what you stake is finite. And so our proposition is of infinite force, when there is the finite to stake in a game where there are equal risks of gain and of loss, and the infinite to gain. (excerpts from Pensées, part III, §233, which has had a few words swapped out) Human It's What's For Dinner A super AI is most likely to come from a human level AI, contnually upgrading it's self until a singularity is reached. The more memory the computer needs the more energy it will need. The super AI may just eat everything in its path without concern for what it is. However it may have a moral code, since a huge effort is being made to insure a friendly AI is developed. If we can live with high morals it may avoid consuming us for energy either indefinitely or very last."	PRO	17
17	S3be655b-A5fb9d04c	humans should endeavour to become a vegan species	I will be making the argument that we has humans should not ender to become a vegetarian species, that we should remain omnivores. Just like eating too much meat eating only vegetables is unhealthy. You need meat for the following: B12 Calcium Iron Zinc EPA & DHA http://chriskresser.com... While it is true that you can find vegetables with these items the human body does not take them in properly from vegetables, this is why most vegetarian animals spend most of their day eating. however the reason why we should embrace veganism is due to the fact that our current environment and society has enabled us to produce ample supplies of plant foodstuffs without having the need turn to animal foods in desperation and hence allowing ourselves to be freed from the burden of continuing to harm our fellow living creatures. it may have been a neccessity in the history of our species, however this is no longer the case, and we should unite in our determination to end this cruel exploitation of our fellow animal lifeforms. This disregards that the rainforest is being clear cut in part to make farm land. What about all the living plant creatures? How is this not harming them? This argument to me sounds like, “We should care about all forms of life. Well, other than them plants. Who cares about them?” http://environment.nationalgeographic.com... All of my opponents other arguments disregard that there are other options to carnivorous eating than live stock. It is less wasteful if you raise insects on the waste from farms. This turns that waste into soil. Then we could eat the insects.	CON	18
18	S7e9ebc8d-Ae6ca8f43	People should become vegan as a result of possible future advances in artificial intelligence.	When robots take over they may kill us as a result of not being vegan. Come on people, do the right thing.	PRO	19
19	Sd98175c5-A2103a44c	THW become Vegetarians	"My responses will be short for now, and much more in depth next round. It is currently 3 in the morning and I will post what I have, and post the next later C1) ""You""ll ward off disease. Vegetarian diets are more healthful than the average American diet, particularly in preventing, treating or reversing heart disease and reducing the risk of cancer."" I would like to ask my opponent How it is more healthful when they are eliminating the most important source for them to actually live. They also state how vegetarians consume less oils and fat. However, without meat we have an insufficient level of omega-3 fatty acids. A paper published in the European Journal of Clinical Nutrition claims that vegetarians have lower levels long-chain omega-3 fatty acids, particularly EPA and DHA and with insufficient amounts, it can actually harm the cardiovascular health. They say vegetarian diets have lowered this, but we see in common knowledge that is is actually making them higher. My opponents assume that heavy meat eaters would have a higher risk of developing colorectal cancer but a review published in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition of the aforementioned Oxford study reveals, ""Within the study, the incidence of all cancers combined was lower among vegetarians than among meat eaters, but the incidence of colorectal cancer was higher in vegetarians than in meat eaters."" This proves that being vegetarian does not help any health factors throughout this whole debate and should be dropped. C2) ""You""ll keep your weight down. The standard American diet""high in saturated fats and processed foods and low in plant-based foods and complex carbohydrates""""is making us fat and killing us slowly."" Let me remind the viewers again that my opponents seem to be missing the point. Vegetarians stop eating protein. With the lack of protein, they compensate and try to fill up all that protein with carbs. With this, there are much more chances of vegetarians actually gaining weight rather than loosing. They say that not being vegetarians will make us overweight. However this is not merely important. With this there is a solution to both Omnivores and vegetarians: exercising. This argument is completely irrelevant to the whole vegetarian topic. They are proving us the harms of not being vegetarian. However, this argument is showing us that because we are not vegetarian, we are now obese. This is not true. There are so many reasons to why people are actually obese, which is fast food restaurants, ads, etc. but our debate is not talking about any of those factors. For this, their obesity argument falls. C3) You""ll live longer Let me again remind the viewers that with these harms, it may cause death within these unbeneficial factors of vegetarian diets. With that, chances of living longer are slim, if we take in the factors lost from not eating meat. C4) You""ll build strong bones While it""s possible for vegetarians to consume adequate amounts of protein, calcium, iron and vitamin D to ensure proper muscle and bone development, one study concluded that vegetarians had approximately 5 percent lower bone-mineral density (BMD) than non-vegetarians. The results of the study, the authors conclude, suggest that vegetarian diets "" especially vegan diets "" are associated with lower BMD. From this, the ""stronger bones"" argument falls There are even chances that without being vegan, you can still build strong bones. It would rather be better to not be vegan and have stronger bones, with the contribution of protein and much more variety of selections. I will have to stop it here, for my eyes are weary and my mind is hazy I look forward to the refutations. More rebuttals to be posted next round!!"	CON	20
20	S272dfd04-A464afa	Everyone should become a vegetarian	You're right, they don't provide most of the meat for the public. It is a very minimal amount. They have quite a small farm with not a lot of workers, so it does make sense, the part about it not being eaten by many people. I do agree with it being sick and inhumane for them to pump chemicals into the animals; in fact, I wish there was some kind of law passed that makes it illegal to do that. The thing is, there isn't one. I don't see why they even do that, and I completely agree with you that they shouldn't. I'm completely at loss as to what to say for the rest, as you've been a brilliant debater with brilliant arguments and you've made me agree with lots of things I didn't before. I have a feeling you might win this.	CON	21
21	Sc6d799ed-A5612033a	People should stop eating meat.	Animals have feelings just like us. People need to understand that animals aren't ours to kill or torture they are to be treated with love and compassion and we need to stand up for them and be their voice. How would you feel if your child was taken from you to become someone else's meal? To be beaten, tortured and locked in a small cage?	PRO	22
22	S7e9ebc8d-A5ec6f908	People should become vegan as a result of possible future advances in artificial intelligence.	FOOD FOR THOUGHT I don't understand why my opponent is having a hard time understanding the AI's appetite. The AI will want to continually grow smarter and stronger, which requires progressively more energy to keep it going. Matter is nothing but energy, and we're made up of matter. All the AI has to do is convert out matter to the fuel it needs to power it's self. It's not really that difficult of a concept to grasp. All the AI has to do is release some self replicating nanobots to gather energy for it. With all the effort being put into developing a friendly AI, it's certainly feasible to suspect the super AI would be selective about it's targets. THE EMPIRICAL HAS NO CLOTHES Empirical evidence comes from direct observation or experimentation. (Pickett 2006, p. 585) also http://en.m.wikipedia.org... It's impossible to have empirical evidence for future events, and it's also completely unnecessary. It's also unnecessary in philosophical debates. It's absurd that my opponent would even request empirical evidence in a debate that isn't remotely scientific. It's my belief that either my opponent doesn't know what empirical evidence is or he's trying to somehow gain an unfair advantage (out of desperation). This talk of speculation is an attempt to distract. Obviously talking of the future is speculation. If a meteorologist says the sun will come out tomorrow he is speculating. I've provided the opinion of experts in AI and emerging technologies as well as their philosophical counterparts. The scenarios I've painted have a reasonable chance of occurring and when you factor in my argument entitled Wylted's Wager, you can see that this reasonable chance of happening is all you need for it to be a good argument. Wylted's Wager This argument I presented to bolster my other arguments needs to be addressed. Philosophers have plenty of answers for Pascal's wager, but my wager updated for the 21st century actually avoids all the errors of the first, and I think the only reason my opponent is avoiding Wylted's wager is because it is an argument that is perfect. No rebuttals can exist for it, that are solid. Veganism There is a lot to address here. My first thought is that my opponents rejections to veganism is ridiculous. I'll take it point by point, until I run out of character space. 1.lack of protein- In western societies you don't see a problem with protein deficiencies. You can get adequate protein from a variety of plant sources. http://www.vrg.org... There are also body builders such as Mr. Cheeke that would disagree that you can't build muscle on a plant based diet. http://en.m.wikipedia.org... 2. No natural urge to eat meat exists. I had no problem quitting meat. The urges some people feel are likely due to iron or b12 deficiencies which are easily supplemented.	PRO	23
23	S2d6e4294-A52ec30ce	Everyone should become Lacto-vegetarian/vegan	"I am arguing the case that eating meat products, eggs and honey is morally wrong and everyone should stop. I am also against the hunting of animals for materials and experimenting on animals for science development but if I were to include these topics in this argument it would be extremely long. Also, my largest concern is currently for the eating of farm animals because there is such a large amount of people that ignore this topic. From recent discussions, I have found that the common problem with many meat-eaters today is that they are taking upon a blindness towards what they eat and ignoring the fact that the meat they eat was once a living animal, with interests and emotional value. Or, perhaps people feel that with such a large meat processing/selling industry existing, their forbearance of meat is not going to have an impact on the quantity of animals slaughtered and sold. However, many others have seemed to argue that the food chain provides us with justification for killing animals and that it is our natural instinct to do so. Moreover, cases have been argued that Genesis 1.26 states that we have 'dominion' over the animals, or that we could not provide the world with enough food for a healthy diet without the meat industry. I'm going to keep this fairly short as it is only the first argument. I will go in depth with the following if you have any objections. First of all, let's stick with the obvious principle that - although we are a very different species to farm animals, with a higher level of intelligence - these animals can feel pain and they can feel comfort (whether they can experience happiness, I am not YET debating) and in that respect they are equal to humans. I'm sure if we all reason with ourselves, everyone (other than the sadistic minority) can understand that an act that inflicts pain on a living being, whether human or inhuman, is less moral than an act that creates comfort for the being - and less moral than if you were not to act upon the being at all. Presuming that you agree, this proves that the act of having these animals slaughtered is intrinsically wrong. Maybe you still think that the consequence of this act is of such importance to human survival that it overrules the immorality of the act itself. If this is the case, I can tell you, as Peter Singer makes clear (I will explain in a later debate), that the human population can easily survive without the meat industry - in fact, it would even be more efficient and solve tragic issues such as starvation of the less fortunate. Moving on to those with the mindset that they are not going to make a difference to the meat industry themselves by becoming vegetarian/vegan. This has no relevance to my argument title because I state that 'Everyone' should become vege/vegan and this concerns only the individual. Anyhow, I thought I'd include it for the benefit of those reading. By eating the meat because you think that it is going to be produced continuously no matter what you do, you are buying in and supporting the cause for killing animals and you are, therefore, placing yourself in the wrong. However, on this subject I like to use the maxim of Immanuel Kant's 'Categorical Imperative' theory that states that in order to ensure that an act is morally right, we must first universalise the action. Imagine a world where everyone had this mindset; eating meat purely because they felt that, as an individual, they would not contribute to the prevention of animal slaughter. Now think of a world where everyone had the opposite mindset; believing that something different can happen: that, as an individual, they can make a difference. After looking back on my rather lengthy discussion already, I've decided to approach the last to arguments at the same time. Many Christians believe that animals have been put on Earth by God under our control; some even see the animals as a gift to feed us. The food chain is also used commonly in attempt to justify eating animals; other animals eat each other so why are we not entitled to? Well, no other species of animal are nearly as intelligent as humans; no other animals know to plant seeds in order to grow food, nor might they know that killing other animals is wrong. I have not yet thought researched deeply about a solution to the rest of the food chain, but this argument only concerns humans anyway. Peter Singer states: ""If possessing a higher degree of intelligence does not entitle one human to use another for his or her own ends, how can it entitle humans to exploit non-humans?"" This quote, alone, sums up my first point on the issue. We seem to feel that we own the right to use these animals as our resources just because we are more intelligent and more powerful, yet when it comes to the less intelligent and weaker people of the HUMAN RACE, the majority of our society will disagree that it is fair for someone more powerful to murder one of the weaker. In relation to this idea, the cruelty that we show to animals is influential towards how we treat other people and if you really are absolute that a human life is more valuable than an animal's in every manner then this is a point to consider. St. Francis of Assisi says that ""If you have men who will exclude any of God's creatures from the shelter of compassion and pity, you will have men who will deal likewise with their fellow men."" The way we treat animals is very likely to have an impact on the way we treat man. Stats show a sharp correlation between animal abuse & other crimes, including rape, robbery, murder, sexual homicide, domestic abuse and more. Studies show 100% of sexual homicide perpetrators (like Jeffrey Dahmer) started by abusing animals and, although his sort of abuse differs slightly to the slaughter of farm animals, it all still reflects the same principles of animal cruelty. EGGS/HONEY: My objection to eating honey is simple. Bees work throughout the hot weathered seasons, storing this honey so that the colony can feed from it during winter when they can no longer collect pollen from plants. Then the humans come along and steal it from them, just to provide a luxury item for us to eat - which is not necessary. The wrongdoing in the theft of this honey, the selfishness and greed, as well as the inconsideration for the bees' survival through the colder seasons should be clear to you. By eating eggs, we are supporting the poor conditions that chickens live through when producing the eggs. A large majority of eggs (apologies for not having stats, I have to finish up soon) come from conventional, caged hens. Up to 10 hens are crammed into 18 by 20 inch cages. These conditions barely allow the chickens to move around or spread their wings; they are trapped, deprived from their interests, free will and veterinary attention. As for the males, they are either thrown away in dumpsters left to die or ground up alive in meat grinders as chicks; having their will to live snatched away in order for us to feast greedily on the unneeded luxury of eggs. Now, linking back to the earlier argument that the infliction of pain promotes less good than leaving the animals alone entirely, the process of obtaining eggs is morally wrong. Although Uncaged eggs and free-range eggs seem like a more humane alternative, the chickens still go through deprived lives, as I will discuss in the next round if you choose to argue against this subject. Overall, in purchasing eggs to eat, you are in effect paying for the murder of hundreds of millions of baby animals."	PRO	24
24	S7b65bdc-Ac49a3d63	People should not eat animals.	"Thank you. I am also not a great supporter of PETA, because of their methods to obtain rights for animals. I want to say, however, that being pro-choice doesn't mean that I am pro-abortion. I certainly believe that women should try very much to prevent an abortion, but I believe in a women's right to choose, just as I believe that people should be vegetarian, but consider it a personal choice. Since you looked at my profile, also viewed yours, and I find it amusing that you consider yourself ""educated"" with some college, the same educational level that I have reached at thirteen years old. I don't believe we disagree about any issues involved in this debate except global warming, so there is really no reason to continue this argument. I think that debate.org should distinguish between support of PETA and vegetarianism."	PRO	25
25	Sc11cc3ad-Ad2166d8f	Insects are likely to become resistant to GM crops	"Deborah B. Whitman. ""Genetically Modified Foods: Harmful or Helpful?"" CSA. April 2000: ""Just as some populations of mosquitoes developed resistance to the now-banned pesticide DDT, many people are concerned that insects will become resistant to B.t. or other crops that have been genetically-modified to produce their own pesticides."" In other words, GM crops are not necessarily more cost-effective than non-GM foods that rely on pesticides."	PRO	26
26	S7b65bdc-A6c36f854	People should not eat animals.	Mathnerd: Of your three reasons to be a vegetarian (defined as not eating the flesh of animals, a diet that may or may not include the consumption of eggs and milk) is beneficial to both the vegetarian and to the global community. 1. A vegetarian diet is more healthful. All 13 amino acids and other required nutrients may be obtained easily with very much attention. A vegetarian diet has been shown to decrease chances of cancer and heart disease (because plant foods contain no cholesterol and very little saturated fat). Actually, some veggies contain huge amounts of saturated fats - coconuts for example. So we are in close agreement on point one. 2. Animal agriculture is the number one human-caused source of the greenhouse gas methane, which is 23 times as potent as carbon dioxide. The rearing of cattle and other animals also contributes to the extinction of many species from habitat destruction, erosion caused by over grazing, excess land use compared to vegetable farming, and water pollution and eutrophication from animal waste and fertilized grazing pastures. To say nothing about the higher costs of vegetables because of the reduction of quality arable land. I'm not terribly concerned about green house gases, as I am not a subscriber of human caused Global Warming Theory, but I generally agree with point two. 3. Common animal farming practices are cruel and unsafe. Most people can agree upon this, however, the morality of animal treatment is highly subjective and I would like to not focus too much on whether a chicken has the same feelings of pain, whether it really matters, etc. My divergence from you position is in the inconsistencies of accepting the consumption of milk and eggs and the fact that your profile shows that you are pro-abortion. Chickens that are used for egg production are kept in tight environments, Additionally their beaks are cut back to prevent damage to their crowded-in neighbors. After a very miserable life they are slaughtered for soup, when they are no longer productive. Presumably, they would still be slaughtered for pet food, even if all persons became vegetarians of the egg and milk variety. In the case of milk cows, heifers are welcomed but (male) calves are eschewed as a liability. Right now they are immediately slaughtered for (monkey) veal. Their venerated sisters will calve and produce milk and calve, again until they no longer produce. They then become food for pets. Not a great life either. Lastly, you favor abortion. Forgive me if I presume that your sympathies are reserved for animals. Even though I am not a vegetarian, I try to limit my intake of animal flesh. I disagree with PETA in their ‘Animal Rights' position. There is certainly, an ethical requirement that we the limit pain and discomfort that farm animals must endure, but animals have no rights. In the other hand . I admire your compassion for animals. Your arguments are well reasoned and strongly stated.	CON	27
27	S272dfd04-A6f0c947a	Everyone should become a vegetarian	But because of everyone that eats meat there is a huge effect on the animals. Not only are they killed but also for e.g. Chickens are fed steroids and other harmful chemicals in order for them to grow fast enough to sustain our wants. There are some chickens who are built so much out of chemicals that they don't even have heads yet can produce eggs. This isn't natural. Animals are being harms because of our selfishness. Therefore by making everyone vegetarian we will stop this cruelty to animals.	PRO	28
28	S272dfd04-A53ab48d9	Everyone should become a vegetarian	If the chickens have been built like that, the chances are that they are not self-aware. If they are, as you said, built so much out of chemicals they don't have a head, that means they have no head to have a brain. Without a brain they cannot think, nor be aware of what it happening to them. Many farms don't actually kill the animals; they wait until they die of natural causes. That way the animals get to live a full life, instead of being killed earlier for food.	CON	29
29	S272dfd04-A5821e837	Everyone should become a vegetarian	Just need help with the possible arguments	PRO	30
30	S7e9ebc8d-A81a19b7a	People should become vegan as a result of possible future advances in artificial intelligence.	"Time to finish this. I. Cross-Examination Goodness, where to begin. My opponent's stubbornness baffling. He ignores my counters and continues to cling to a broken argument. I guess I'll have to give the same response I've delivered multiple times even though now he has forfeited the ability to refute them. My opponent opens with points that he provides no examples for. The first being my lack of understanding of AI consuming energy. The second being that I didn't address his ""Wylted's Wager"". For one, notice the statement my opponent makes about his sources. The only thing his sources show is that there is an AI in development that would have moral compass. Everything after that is only his own speculation which I did in fact counter, allow me to do so again. ""The AI might not care where it gets energy from, it just wants energy."" The first claim uses 'might' implying speculation and not objectivity. Where has it been supported that an AI 'wants' energy? "" It could potentially create a technology that consumes all matter on the planet just to feed it and make it grow even stronger and smarter."" 'Potentially'? Where's the proof it will? Not provided by Pro that's for sure. ""but would have a hard time justifying consuming a vegan. Remember it needs justification to overcome the friendly AI program written in it."" Why would it have a harder time consuming vegan? The reasons are not provided. If it needs justification to consume then what's it's justification to eat carnivores? That they eat life? Vegans eat life too. Didn't I also say that our justification could be that we mainly eat herbivores? In that case vegans are at a greater risk. I stand by my claim the Wylted's Wager has no place in this debate. Pro has failed to explain how a Super AI developing would relate to immortality, the only thing he provided was an opinion saying that immortality 'may' be achieved by 2045 but this is irrelevant. The whole premise of his wager is not explained nor concluded. What point is being made? Why is immortality infinite happiness? How is immortality gained by becoming vegan to avoid robotic consumption? So many unanswered questions. From what Pro has argued he continues to leave the following questions unsupported by observable evidence. How can we know that the upcoming super AI will 'likely' 1. Be able to consume matter 2. Be able to consume humans 3. Justify not eating vegans? What is the justification for eating everything except Vegan homo-sapiens? Vegans eat life just like omnivores. Omnivores commonly eat herbivores like chicken. So omnivores could say eat vegans because they're herbivores. How can one gain immortality by being vegan not getting eaten by AI? Why does AI desire to consume matter? That is not inherent among all things on Earth, only living things. II. Closing statement The reason I counter Pro's claims with so many questions is simply because he explains so little. All Wylted has done is assume potential possibilities might maybe happen. Not good enough."	CON	31
31	S7e9ebc8d-Ac051d98b	People should become vegan as a result of possible future advances in artificial intelligence.	A robot is an emotionless mechanical entity designed to complete tasks. In order to possess the morals necessary to dislike carnivores, robots would need emotion. Since a robot is by definition void of emotion, then robots would not care whether humans consumed animal products.	CON	32
32	S7e9ebc8d-A811d55c6	People should become vegan as a result of possible future advances in artificial intelligence.	"Thankfully, my opponent kept this last argument short. I shall follow suit. ""FOOD FOR THOUGHT"" Again, my opponent resorts to mere assumption. He cannot show that any of this consumption will happen or is likely to happen. Say I agree, AI will require energy to survive. Pro still has to show a few things. 1. This energy will likely come from humans 2. This AI will discriminate it's energy source by using the "" You eat life so I will to."" logic. 3. This AI will even be capable of consuming humans. (Who's to say that this Super AI will not simply be a computer?) 4. Of all matter in the world, this AI would likely choose humans as a good energy source. Even though we will resist and are in fewer quantities than say plants. Basically, Pro has completely failed to support his claim. He speculates. More about what could happen and less about what is likely to happen. ""THE EMPIRICAL HAS NO CLOTHES"" Also a fairly naked argument (get it?). We live in a world of cause and effect. A cause leads to an effect which is then a cause for another effect. Therefore, in order to know the effect, you must know the cause. Everything is predictable, granted every possible cause is known. Since is is fairly impossible to know every factor causing an effect, we must take the causes we know and estimate the outcome. My opponent tries to shed his need to provide observable evidence (causes) to prove his claim (the effect). He does this by assuming uncertainty and piping that as a substitute for observable evidence. My opponent is not relieved of his BoP simply because of uncertainty. He must show what causes will lead a super AI into becoming human-hungry, and further that by explaining how it will decide that based off dietary habits. All of his attempts to do so (demonstrating morality, showing the possibility of rogue robots, and even suggesting we are being simulated) have been either refuted, unlikely, or irrelevant. Again, Pro needed to show the observable causes to support this AI. His sources have shown likely causes of revolting AI or computer simulation, but have shown nothing about veganism or human consumption. Wylted's Wager I didn't initially address this for a couple of reasons. For one, I ran out of character room. Secondly, it seems pretty silly and unreasonable. Forgive for being so simple minded but I fail to see how this Wager applies to this debate. First off, we are assuming that a super AI will/will not develop based off of a 50% chance. Heads or tails. Secondly we're assuming I can defend neither proposition, obviously false but I'll play along. Thirdly we're assuming the I must wager. Again, obviously not required but I'll humor poor old Wylted here. Finally we're assuming that either possibility will be either a gain or a loss. Here's where the problem emerges. It is not explained what gaining all means or what one gains. There also lacks an explanation of how one is to gain or lose. Which scenario is which? Not explained. Infinite happiness? Infinite gain? Not explained."	CON	33
33	Sc6d799ed-A9ffe6900	People should stop eating meat.	"Your final claim that eating meat is bad for you is unsubstantiated and without proof. Think about it. If eating meat REALLY did make humans sick, and at a fearful rate, wouldn't a lot more of the world be dying of food poisoning? I eat meat almost everyday, and I would probably be dead if that claim was true. Ever hear of the food crisis? The world is rapidly running out of common vegetables. If everyone in the world stopped eating meat like you want, we would run out of food so fast that being well-fed would become a rarity. Forget eating meat; people would start eating each other to survive. ""I'll show you, when the chips are down, these... these civilized people? They'll eat each other."" ~Heath Ledger as Joker. And the reason for this is that at our core, we are animals. We like to think we are not, but we are just another part of Earth. We like to think that we are higher beings, but we aren't. We're just ahead of the curve. Let me put it this way. All animals have only two goals: Survive themselves, and pass on their genes to the next generation. We humans go through school, stay fit, get jobs, to survive. We flirt, we love, we find our match to pass on our genes to the next generation. At our core, we aren't different from animals. So your claim that ""when animals eat animals it nature,"" is false. For someone who supposedly ""knows the facts"" about how animals are treated, you seem reluctant to share them."	CON	34
34	S625b4e3a-Af895e2c6	I Can Make You Become a Vegetarian	I Can Make You Become a Vegetarian! Debate Rules: 1) Accept the debate first 2) Then watch the video (hint: You do not need to watch the whole video) 3) If you forfeit or become overly abrasive - you shall lose the debate 4) List further opinions-arguments in the comments **Voters Must Read Comments Before Voting** http://www.youtube.com...	PRO	35
35	S3be655b-A49ef08c8	humans should endeavour to become a vegan species	the act of eating other animals and their by-products for our sustenance is a behaviour that we inherited from our ancestors who were living in a different world to our world today ultimately as a species, we have highly adaptable digestive systems and our bodies have the mechanisms to extract the nutrients they need from both animal and plant foods. however the reason why we should embrace veganism is due to the fact that our current environment and society has enabled us to produce ample supplies of plant foodstuffs without having the need turn to animal foods in desperation and hence allowing ourselves to be freed from the burden of continuing to harm our fellow living creatures. the change will have to be a gradual one, but at least we will be able to stop rationalising this carnivorous behaviour by basing it on adulterated scientific and philosophical reasonings, and we will be able to transcend to a level beyond the bounds of the burdened state of instinctual carnivorism like the rest of the animal kingdom. it may have been a neccessity in the history of our species, however this is no longer the case, and we should unite in our determination to end this cruel exploitation of our fellow animal lifeforms. i will emphasise that this includes the end to dairy and egg produce also which are a huge part of our mistreatment of animals. also we should strive to end all aspects of our cruelty which includes animal driven transport and unnecessary animal skinned clothing.	PRO	36
36	Sf67363ae-Ad795aefd	People should eat much less meat	Evolution a) Humans didn't evolve to become pure vegetarians, our omnivorous attributes are found through out our bodies. The anatomical differences between the average veggie eating animal and our own species are quite apperent. The average adult human digestive tract from mouth to anus is about 8 times body length, this is about midway between our canivorous friends dogs and our favourite large herbivore beast cattle, who tend to have digestive tracts around 20 times their own body length. This is clear evidence of human omnivorence. b) The human appendix is a vestigial organ that is located at the end of the small intestine located at the end of the small intestine or beginning of the Large intestine. It is speculated to once have the purpose of digesting cellulose into its monomer componenets. This is probably one of the most obvious signs of human indepence from herbivore diets. c) The earliest known evidence of vegetarianism can only be seen in ancient Greece and ancient India. All other ancient civilizations and tribes in the 2 million years before today that we know of have diets that are omnivourous. This is clear evidence of humans evolution favouring people whose diets were not purely vegetarian Conclusion with all the evidence meat is what the human body was designed to consume. Ergo, meat is good. 2. Nutrient Diffeciency[1] Zinc is an essential mineral required for many enzymatic based metabolic reactions[4][6]. A lack of Zinc Meat is the most cost effective and effecient forms of a zinc supplement. Zinc deffiency can lead to Cancer, Diarrhea , Pneumonia, and even Anorexia[7]. A study at the University of Sydney in Austrailia clearly demonstrated that the amount of zinc consumed by vegetarians is not enough to supply the body with its daily value worth of Zinc.[4] Conclusion) Even though many nutrients can be supplied through the ingestion of non meat products; meat, remains the most cost effective and best available supplement of nutrients for the majority of people. Citation 1. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov... 2. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov... 3. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov... 4. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov... 5. http://lpi.oregonstate.edu... 6. http://ods.od.nih.gov... 7. http://en.wikipedia.org... My Apologies that this is very short and unrefined, I have been quite busy with my studies lately.	CON	37
37	S3be655b-Ae8344b24	humans should endeavour to become a vegan species	human beings have flourished on earth in vast terrains and we still do with differing food type availability. the amazon diet is very different to the eskimo diet and yet all the varying human communities omni/carnivores and herbivores have all flourished healthily whilst maintaining fundamentally differnt diets. Your examples are of omnivore diets; eskimos eat fish, and game, amazons insects, fish, livestock, and game. Being omnivores is what allows us to eat such a wide range of nutrition as a system is totally interwoven into our other bodily systems and so it is actually very incomplete to deduce that children who dont drink milk will have weaker bones or a calcium shortage. You are right. You could eat 33 cups of baby spinach, or 5 to 6 cups of cooked spinach to get the same calcium as 8 oz of milk. My point was more that no one really eat this much. You would have to eat all day long. scientists ultimately only manipulate data to make it appear favourable to the goals of the organisations that fund their 'science' Most of them never make a peer viewed study. They are not scientist because they are not trying to change the minds of scientist only the general public. if a scientist was to point out that cows milk has been shown to be incompatible with the human stomache, the dairy industry would ensure that 100 other scientists rebutt or 'reinterpret' the undesirable science. Actually there has been scientist that have claimed this; as a reason behind lactose intolerance. There was not much of a rebuttal. The rebuttal is we are getting used to it, because we have drank goat’s milk and not cow’s milk though out most of human history. large parts of indian civilisations up until the present have remained vegan for 1000s of years without any scientifically noticeable calcium deficient conditions incidentally these same people have also been reported to not spending their whole lives grazing on their vegetable curries to keep their nutritional standards in line with their omnivore brethren Can you site a source for even one Indian tribe that is vegan? however, realistically lets start by protecting the cows and hens whose pain we can clearly perceive......then we can go searching for carrots' tears and emotions. Did you know talking to a plant makes it grow more? That there is a field of science that are studying plant this kind of stuff, it is called plant neurobiology. Also plants have a perceivable pain response. Many plants will recoil when you hurt them. http://www.discovery.com... My opponent as locked them self into it has to be livestock or plants. There are more options than just these to. The best argument on my side currently is that insects solve all of my opponent’s arguments so far and still have humans not being vegetarians. My opponent as yet to give a rebuttal to this point.	CON	38
38	Sd98175c5-Afafbd60a	THW become Vegetarians	I accept.	PRO	39
39	Sadee5bf1-A322cfb09	People should be free to choose what they will eat.	We live in a country that is supposed to be about individual freedom. Unfortunately we have seen a gradual erosion of those freedoms. Now there are those who would impose upon others their moralities and ideas of what people should and shouldn’t eat. I would challenge, in particular, those who come from a moral standpoint. I would wager that many people who think it is immoral to eat meat are also the same people who think abortion is okay. If I am against abortion, (which I haven’t said one way or another) shouldn’t I be able to force my moral values on you? For that matter, there are many societal issues people on many sides could challenge from a “moral” standpoint. When we are debating about whether people should eat meat strictly from a nutritional viewpoint, vegetarians fall apart in their arguments, as you will read in the other points discussed from a nutritional standpoint. The problem is not with meat per se. The problem expressed by many who say “don’t eat meat” is with how animals are raised, how they are fed, and how they are slaughtered. However, passing a law that says you cannot eat meat is short-sighted.. In a free society, we are free to buy or not buy products that we have an issue with, without imposing our morals and choices on others. If you don’t like how a particular corporation or farmer raises, feeds and slaughters the animals, then don’t buy their meat. Or, go through the proper legal channels to get regulations passed to change their practices. Don’t just legislate that people can’t eat meat anymore. That is a personal diet, as well as moral, choice. Personally, practicing “fair chase” and obeying the laws when hunting and making sure an animal is killed quickly and humanely is how we come by our venison, which we choose to eat over beef because we know the animal has lived and eaten natural foods. Another choice could be to buy from organically operated farms which raise animals in an environment as close to natural as possible, with the animals being able to roam freely in clean areas with natural foods to eat.	PRO	40
40	S2d6e4294-A94ed52a2	Everyone should become Lacto-vegetarian/vegan	First of all you can't force people to eat what they don't want to eat second of all someone has to keep animals in check and that is the human society if all meat eaters stopped eating meat there would be a huge overpopulation of animals third of all human is the most important race and takes priority over all other animals fourth of all many humans depend on meat products dietarily and hunting for financial reasons	CON	41
41	S57f0866c-Ad3c95468	Humans should be vegetarians.	Humans should become vegetarians because meat eating and the killing of farm animals (cows, pigs, etc.) is morally incorrect, evolutionary incorrect, and unhealthy. Meat Production also causes issues regarding pollution, deforestation, and excessive land use; all of which are unbeneficial to the increasing human population.	PRO	42
42	S3be655b-Ad7faaf37	humans should endeavour to become a vegan species	thank you for embarking on this discussion with me. human beings have flourished on earth in vast terrains and we still do with differing food type availability. the amazon diet is very different to the eskimo diet and yet all the varying human communities omni/carnivores and herbivores have all flourished healthily whilst maintaining fundamentally differnt diets. the sophisticated library of terms that modern science uses to explain our nutritional needs are just elements of raw data that is only relevant to the persons in which the effects were observed. nutrition as a system is totally interwoven into our other bodily systems and so it is actually very incomplete to deduce that children who dont drink milk will have weaker bones or a calcium shortage. the reality of the situation as is the case with most matters is the influence of financial profit. scientists ultimately only manipulate data to make it appear favourable to the goals of the organisations that fund their 'science' if a scientist was to point out that cows milk has been shown to be incompatible with the human stomache, the dairy industry would ensure that 100 other scientists rebutt or 'reinterpret' the undesirable science. large parts of indian civilisations up until the present have remained vegan for 1000s of years without any scientifically noticeable calcium deficient conditions incidentally these same people have also been reported to not spending their whole lives grazing on their vegetable curries to keep their nutritional standards in line with their omnivore brethren indeed plant life is also living. and its possible that plants feel just as much pain by our disturbing their natural life cycle. however, realistically lets start by protecting the cows and hens whose pain we can clearly perceive......then we can go searching for carrots' tears and emotions. ----------------------- apologies for any incoherent parts...........or any missing formalities..............im new to this but keen to improviing ------------------	PRO	43
43	Sc6d799ed-Aa17fe4e2	People should stop eating meat.	"you may think that eating animals is bad, but actually, it is good for their species. Ever heard of natural selection? In theory, it's basically that if an animal gets hunted down and killed by another animal, then it doesn't live on the pass on its genes to the gene pool. The animals that do live pass on their genes and make their species more fit. ""Survival of the fittest,"" as Darwin puts it. Humans are animals. We started from where they were, but have slowly made our way up the totem pole with intelligence. Now, why do animals eat other animals? For nutrition, for the protein. We aren't doing anything wrong by killing animals to eat them, so as long as we do EAT them. If we didn't eat the animal and killed it just for fun, that's wrong. I am totally against killing animals for trophies or ivory trade. Yes, some people like to be vegetarians because they dislike eating meat. That's totally fine. But it would be wrong to tell EVERYONE to stop eating meat because that would deprive humans of something natural and intrinsic. Besides, if humans hunt and kill animals, we are helping their species by removing an unfit member and stopping that member from reproducing."	CON	44
44	S57f0866c-A212a2551	Humans should be vegetarians.	"I accept this debate. I'll be arguing that the opponent's claim that ""humans should become vegetarian"" is not adequately supported and cannot be upheld. I'll be stating now the assumption that ""vegetarian"" refers to a person who doesn't eat animal meat. I'll furthermore clarify that the word ""should"" implies a moral, ethical and/or pragmatic desirability factor. As such, he is making an objective claim and possesses the Burden of Proof. I look forward to opening arguments."	CON	45
45	S57f0866c-A79c995a5	Humans should be vegetarians.	Round 1: Rules and position clarification. Round 2: Opening Statements. Rounds 3 and 4: Evidence/Rebuttals Round 5: Closing statements. I will be arguing that humans should become vegetarian. Best of luck to my opponent!	PRO	46
46	Sf67363ae-Ac6273f25	People should eat much less meat	Thanks for accepting. l. Health l.A. Kidney stones A vegetarian diet reduces the percent chance of developing kidney stones. Kidney stones are most frequently caused by too much calcium oxalate or uric acid in the urine. Animal protein (including meats, shellfish, eggs etc.) have large amounts of oxalates and uric acid in it, thus increasing the risk of kidney stones. [1] Americans consume a lot of meat, in burgers or hot dogs, or steaks, but 1 in 11 Americans suffer from kidney stones, suggesting that this high-meat diet may be catching up with Americans. [2] l.B. Iron sources Red meat is rich in iron, but studies show that too much heme iron (the iron found in red meat) may not be beneficial to humans. Studies have linked this heme iron to an increased risk of getting rectal or colon cancer. [3] Non-heme iron is found in foods like leafy greens and beans. l.C. Heart disease An Oxford study shows that vegetarians are 32% less likely to get heart disease than meat eaters. [4] l.D. Conclusion There are many conditions and disease that can be contracted by eating meat. None of them are fun at all, and if people want to have a higher chance of living longer, healthier, and therefore happier lives, they should reduce the amount of animal protein they eat. ll. Ethics ll.A. Are their lives wasted? Animals killed for meat are raised in slaughterhouses, many never seeing the light of day, or feeling grass beneath their feet. Humans can function without eating meat, so are we taking their lives for a whim? Animals can experience stress, pain, and fear. 10,153 million animals are killed for their meat every year. [5] That is a ridiculous amount of animals to die for humans' dietary preferences. ll.B Conditions of slaughterhouses Animals killed for meat are kept in cramped, dirty, and unnatural conditions, and are sometimes even fed the ground up remains of animals of their own species. The meat industry is out to make a profit, and to maximize the number of animals they can keep, animals can be kept in spaces so small they can't even turn around. They aren't exercised so they fatten quickly, and are pumped full of drugs and antibiotics to keep them alive in conditions that would've killed them. [6] ll.C. Most slaughterhouses don't kill animals humanely The Humane Methods of Slaughter Act (HMSA) is an attempt to make slaughter more humane by, for example, mandating that livestock be stunned unconcious before slaughter to minimize the animal's suffering. But the HMSA doesn't include chickens and turkeys in its legislation, and some slaughterhouses merely ignore the HMSA, as it is not economically profitable and is not as strictly enforced as it could be. [7] ll.D Conclusion Meat is not humane!! Every consumer counts, and it only takes one person to make a difference!! A vegetarian saves over 406 animals a year, that's more than 1 a day!! [8] Many people do not realize the agony that went into their enjoyable lunch. There is no excuse for excessive meat consumption, unless a doctor specifically prescribed it, which I doubt they would. Round Conclusion Meat is bad for the health and the soul. I will make more points next round to make this argument less long, and more 'readable'. Sources [1] http://www.webmd.com...; [2] http://www.dailynews.com...; [3] http://vegetarian.procon.org...; [4] http://ebn.benefitnews.com...; [5] http://farmusa.org...; [6] http://www.peta.org...; [7] http://www.gpo.gov...; [8] http://www.countinganimals.com...	PRO	47
47	S7b65bdc-A79145b84	People should not eat animals.	This is my first debate, so I would like to start with something simple and pretty straight forward. There are three reasons why becoming vegetarian (defined as not eating the flesh of animals, a diet that may or may not include the consumption of eggs and milk) is both beneficial to the person and to the global community. 1. A vegetarian diet is healthier. All required nutrients may be obtained easily with a little attention, and a vegetarian diet has been shown to decrease chances of cancer and heart disease (because plant foods contain no cholestrol and very little saturated fat). 2. Animal agriculture is the number one human-caused source of the greenhouse gas methane, which is 23 times as potent as carbon dioxide. The rearing of cattle and other animals also contribute to the species extinction from habitat destruction, erosion caused by over grazing, excess land use compared to vegetable farming, and water pollution and eutrophication from animal waste and fertilized grazing pastures. 3. Common animal farming practices are cruel and unsafe. Most people can agree upon this, however, the morality of animal treatment is highly subjective and I would like to not focus too much on whether a chicken has the same feelings of pain, whether it really matters, etc. For the environmental impacts of animal agriculture: http://www.vegetarisme.be... For the American Dietetic Association's position on the vegetarian diet: http://www.eatright.org...	PRO	48
48	S3be655b-A531e4dca	humans should endeavour to become a vegan species	I have meet my BoP. Happy Holidays and a Happy New Year. I wish the best to you and your family.	CON	49
49	S2d6e4294-A9e4e795	Everyone should become Lacto-vegetarian/vegan	Again, I cannot argue further as you forfeited the round.	PRO	50
50	S2d6e4294-Aae8fb90c	Everyone should become Lacto-vegetarian/vegan	No attempt made by opponent	PRO	51
51	S2d6e4294-A4fdf541f	Everyone should become Lacto-vegetarian/vegan	I cannot argue further for this round as you have made no attempt to extend my arguments.	PRO	52
52	S57f0866c-A40271de	Humans should be vegetarians.	Remaining Round 4 Sources [4] http://michaelbluejay.com... [5] http://www.onegreenplanet.org... My opponent forfeit their previous round, therefore my evidence stands unrebut. In conclusion, humans should become vegetarian and expel the killing of farm animals because it would promote kindness and compassion. Humans have arrived at the point in which meat isn't required in order to survive, and poorly preapred meat can result in obesity and high blood cholestoral. Furthermore, raw meat can cause sickness for humans, whereas it doesn't cause as much sickness for omnivores and carnivores. Lastly, there is an overwhelming amount of evidence to prove that livestock causes pollution, deforestation, and excessive land use. I enjoyed this debate despite my opponent's forfeit. Thank you to all viewers and voters of this intriguing discussion!	PRO	53
53	S7b65bdc-Ac911a43b	People should not eat animals.	"Mathnerd: The veggie/PETA conundrum is repeated in the specification of educational level. Even though we both selected ""some college"" I strongly doubt that your educational level is anywhere near mine. You are obviously very mature and intelligent but that lends little to gross education. Much of my education is self learned. In any case, though I have no degrees I do have 165 CU's - far more than enough for a 4 year degree. I also attended many not-for-credit courses. Additionally: 1. I completed an art appreciation course from NY Metropolitan Museum, equivalent to four semesters. 2. By your age I had read most of the content of the 20 volumes of ‘The Book Of Knowledge‘. 3. I am self taught and proficient in electronics, plumbing, TV, radio (built several civilian band radios in my teens), and most other electronics, as well as starting & running my own business in appliance repair (refrigerator, washer, dryer, dish-washer, and air conditioner ). I am proficient in automotive repair of all systems on cars to the early 1980's, as well as current autos with the exception of new control systems. I built a garage and a stable. I have performed virtually all additions, modifications, installations, repairs and improvements on all of my 25+ cars and several homes, over the course of 50+ years. 4. In my employment as a computer Hardware/Software Engineer, I attended over three thousand hours of class and lab. 5. I taught over one thousand computer professionals (almost all with college degrees - many with advanced degrees) over a ten year period. This took me to all parts of the world. I wrote a college course in computer technology and taught the course for three semesters. 6. I have subscribed for 55 years(almost continuously) to several technical magazines such as Scientific American. I have, often, discovered technical mistakes that I reported, especially in astronomy. 7. I am more knowledgeable in genetics than are most physicians. 8. I am knowledgeable in economics and statistics. My understanding of the stock investment universe is beyond most first year rookies on Wall Street. 9. My working vocabulary is a hefty 25K+ words. I could go on, but I've made my point. I am, indeed, educated. One question remains: Did I win the debate? IMHO - No! I'm voting for you. Congratulations on your first win."	CON	54
54	S7b65bdc-A670a44d2	People should not eat animals.	I apologize for my thoughtless comment. I'm a little full of myself. Thank you for debating with me; I look forward to any future debates between us, since we seem to disagree about so much.	PRO	55
55	S7b65bdc-A19ebab19	People should not eat animals.	Mathnerd No harm no foul. I encourage you to always know your opponent. Read from your opponents' profiles, other debates and comments. Make judgments. Profile. Challenge. You did all this. You did the right things. I detected a little ‘gotcha' - but that's fine. There was no animus in your statement. When debating or arguing via electronics, there is no tone of voice, facial expression, nor body language to give you clues of the opponent's demeanor. But, your statement carried no meanness. I believe that you read my response and inferred that I was angry. I wasn't. Just emphatic. I have a Mensa level IQ, but I can tell by the clarity of your arguments, your choice of handle, and your reasoning ability, that your IQ is probably higher than mine. The fact is, I presumed that your arguments would be in defense of PETA. I presumed incorrectly. I had no valid arguments against the case for vegetarianism, so I challenged you on inconsistency. Even though I do stand by my accusation, it in itself does not undo the rest of your argument. Ergo, you win.	CON	56
56	S932cc55a-A62a74bfd	Rachael Carson was an eco-terriorist who has killed millions of people so far	My opponent is getting desperate now. He has run out of logical solutions, so he must use Ad Hominem insults to win the debate. He has contradicted himself many times. One minute to loves animals and talks about cruelty to animals and that all humans should become vegetarians. Then, the next minute , he is talking about blasting nature with toxic chemicals which completely decimate all wild life. There doesn't seem to be any rhyme or reason to his thinking. When DDT is applied to nature it kills all animals, not just mosquitoes. Frogs, birds, fish, tadpoles, bats and other insects are all killed when DDT and other pesticides are used in nature. Did my opponent ever bother to read the book 'Silent Spring'? I think not! He is just a know-it-all who supports whatever the establishment says. There are other repercussions in using pesticides. Did he consider that pesticides are what cause Ebola and Polio? No he didn't! Pesticides attack the nervous system. That's how they kill insects. That's why both Ebola and Polio are both neurological problems which cause death by suffocation. Halogen chemicals such as bromine, fluorine and chlorine have that effect on all living organisms. The real eco-terrorists are the pharmacy companies, that produce these dangerous chemicals. Rachael Carson is trying to save nature from human greed and stupidity. Its humans that pollute their environment and over-populate an area which causes the mosquito infestation in the first place. If you eat all the fish, frogs, bats, birds and lizards in a certain area, then, the mosquitoes have no predators, thus, they over-breed and become a problem. Also, if humans don't get enough protein and vitamins, they will become susceptible to parasites which may be called 'malaria'. I hope that by using logic and common sense that you can see that what I am saying is true and that the medical system and pharmacy companies work as one to deceive the public on this issue.	CON	57
57	Sabf80b24-A376b2c08	Antibiotics should be heavily restricted.	Good argument, but firstly, antibiotics should only be taken when prescribed by doctors. Plus, the local authorities shouldn't let anybody (farmers, ranchers, etc.) use the antibiotics. That is what I mean by restricted. This is because people take the antibiotics for minor pains and think that the antibiotics will just save them. Plus, antibiotics for animals is also a huge problem which I will clarify later. You mention how the problem isn't antibiotics overuse, but it is. People just take antibiotics thinking they will get better. Also if you take unnecessary antibiotics, some bacteria will get killed but the rest will just become resistant. (1) Plus, the resistant bacteria will form an infection that almost cannot be cured. (1) (2) Back to the livestock. When farmers and ranchers saw that just a small dose of antibiotics could make their livestock grow faster, they started to increase the dosage. As time passed and the amount grew, farmers now used about 15 to 17 million pounds of antibiotics are used to make their animals grow. Infections form in the livestock and that infection could had been in the meat you just ate. Gross, right. Oh, but don't you worry vegetarians, the manure of the livestock is used to help the plants grow, which also affects the plants. Studies have shown that the antibiotics are still active in the manure (3). Almost out of words so I can't go into more detail. Sorry for the late answer. 1) http://www.mayoclinic.org... 2) http://www.pbs.org... 3) http://www.treehugger.com... GOOD LUCK!	PRO	58
58	Sefcd9117-Ae3c56e88	Animals should be used for Medical Research	"Albert Sabin who developed the polio vaccine once stated ""Without Animal research, polio would still be claiming thousands of lives each year."" Animal research has played a vital part in nearly every medical breakthrough throughout the past decade. I feel compelled to affirm today""s resolution that animals should be used for medical research because animal testing has contributed to many life saving cures and treatments, animals themselves benefit from the results of animal testing, and that there is no adequate alternative to testing on a living whole body system. Contention 1: Animal testing has contributed to many life saving cures and treatments. The California Biomedical Research Association states that nearly every medical breakthrough in the last 100 years has resulted directly from research using animals. Imagine how many more possible medical breakthroughs that could be discovered with animal experimentation. An example of a life saving treatment discovered from animal testing is the Polio Vaccine. The Polio Vaccine tested on animals, reduced the global amount of those with polio from 350,000 cases in 1988 to 223 cases in 2012. ( animal-testing.procon.org ) Chris Abee, director of the University of Texas Anderson Cancer Centers animal research facility states that ""we wouldn't have a vaccine for hepatitis B without chimpanzees"" and says that the use of animal research is are ""our best hope"" for finding a vaccine for Hepatitis C, a disease that kills 15,000 people every year in the united states. ( animal-testing.procon.org ) A poll taken in 2011 by the science journal Nature showed that nearly 90% of biomedical scientists agreed that the use of animals in research is essential. Contention 2: Animals themselves benefit from the results of animal testing. If vaccines were not tested on animals, millions of animals would have died from rabies, distemper, feline leukemia, infectious hepatitis virus, tetanus, anthrax, and canine parvovirus. (animal-testing.procon.org ) Isnt it reasonable to test on animals if its gonna save more animals? Without Animal testing, many species would soon become extinct. Koalas, aravaged by chlamydia are being tested with new chlamydia vaccines that may stall the animals disappearance. Without animal testing, we could soon lose many species such as the Koala. Even the American Veterinary Medical Association endorses animal testing. Contention 3: Animals are appropriate research subjects due to their similarity to humans. Chimpanzees share 99% of their DNA with humans, and mice are 98% genetically similar to humans. Every mammal including humans have the same set of organs such as the heart, kidneys, and lungs that function in the same way as humans. Because mammals and humans are so similar, they are open to many of the same conditions and illnesses as human such as heart disease, cancer, and diabetes. Animals do not have rights, therefore it is acceptable to experiment on them. Animals do not have moral judgment or cognitive ability that humans do and because of this every culture recorded throughout human history has treated them differently than humans. If we grant animals rights, all humans would therefore have to become vegetarians, and hunting would be illegal. Conclusion: In today""s round I have shown why Animal Experimentation is essential for progress in Medical Technology due to the fact that Animal testing has contributed to many life saving cures and treatments, Animals themselves benefit from the results of animal testing, and that Animals are appropriate research subjects due to their similarity to humans. For these reasons, we can clearly conclude that progress ( value) should be upheld and we should affirm the resolution that animals should be used for medical research. Clearly we must affirm today""s resolution."	PRO	59
59	Sf67363ae-A750794e1	People should eat much less meat	Side Note: Please attach a picture to your next argument, as I stated that it is mandatory to have a picture or poster or cartoon in your argument in the rules of this debate. Also, you did not challenge any of my above arguments in round 2, so I will assume that you have nothing to say to counter them. Rebuttals Evolution: Humans have many evolutional characteristics of herbivores. For example, humans cannot detoxify vitamin A, have relatively small jaws in relation to head size, and have flattened teeth and nails, all are characteristics of a herbivore. Humans have very long colons and small intestines as well, which is again a herbivore characteristic. [1] The times have changed, what can I say? Don't base diet choices on the choices of people who lived a looooong time ago. Nutrient Deficiency: Wiki isn't a very good source, as anybody can change it, for future reference. Diets low in animal protein contain less saturated fat and are cholesterol free, therefore lower a vegetarian's risk of becoming overweight/obese, and getting things like heart disease from a high build-up of saturated fats etc. in their arteries. Also, vegetables contain more fiber, antioxidants, and complex carbs (as opposed to simple carbs that are basically pure sugar). [2] Arguments The Environment Greenhouse gases Methane gas, one of the greenhouse gases, is a direct by-product of the regular cow digestive process. Animal agriculture accounts for about 17% of greenhouse emissions. More greenhouse gases are emitted by animal agriculture than by cars.[3] The animals have to be raised, fed cheap corn and soy (usually produced with pesticides), slaughtered, and then chopped up and packaged and shipped out and then eaten, and sometimes thrown away. This process is terrible for the environment. Land 30% of the worlds land is used to produce meat. Forests are torn down to host factory farms. The Amazon is getting torn down, about 7 football fields deforested each minute. Think of the plants that haven't even been discovered yet. There might be the cure to cancer, destroyed, because people want their burgers. Food Meat wastes food. It takes up to 13 pounds of grain to produce one pound of meat. Obviously, that isn't efficient. Also, it takes up to 2,400 gallons of water for ONE pound of meat. Growing a pound of wheat, though, only needs 25 gallons. Conclusion Meat is tainting and ruining the environment!! Sources: [1] http://michaelbluejay.com...; [2] http://www.peta.org...; [3] http://www.greatgreenidea.com...; [4] http://www.peta.org...; It's fine. Mine's pretty short too.	PRO	60
60	Scce0604d-A5a248b20	Every adult in first world countries should be vegan.	"Rebuttal, I will go line by line and rebut my opponent's arguments. My opponent's arguments will be in bold and italics, mine will be plain text. ""Con thesis: The pro thesis is absolutist and not every adult living in a first world country should be Vegan."" marymcnamara First, as in my round one argument there is some exceptions rare medical conditions, extraordinary circumstances, and lab grown meat. [0] Second, when it comes to justice, an absolutist attitude is often best. ""2. An absolute doctrine, principle, or standard."" [5] We should use an absolute standard or principle. Animal cruelty is never justified. I stand firmly behind my absolute principle of abolishing all forms of animal cruelty. ""Claim: The meat industry is extremely valuable to the world's economy"" marymcnamara ""Impact: Following the warrant, eliminating the meat industry is not economically viable and would result in severe economic consequences."" marymcnamara Agreed with claim and warrant, disagree with impact. You assume everyone would simply become vegan overnight. This is highly improbable. People are resistant to change. Instead, I find it much more probable that slowly more and more people would become vegan until meat eaters were in the minority. At that point a law would most likely be passed outlawing meat production. Due to the mostly gradual change people would simply change vocations. There is no shortage of help wanted signs in my area. Justice is a higher priority than economy. ""Claim: Humanity in present day could not survive a worldwide vegetarian/vegan diet"" marymcnamara ""Impact: An unsustainable food/vegan farming system to replace the old one. No change in sustainability."" marymcnamara Your claim and impact don't match. You claim we couldn't survive on a worldwide vegetarian diet, give a long quote and then use a completely different impact. As for the warrant, which I didn't copy and paste due to character length restrictions, there is a lot of factors to take in. Overall, plant based diets win enviormentally. [6][7][8] ""Claim: Developing Countries rates of meat consumption are rapidly rising"" marymcnamara ""Impact: there are multiple warrants within this argument and therefore multiple impacts. The first is that developing countries have seen a major rise in meat production and will therefore offset benefits to eliminating meat industries in the united states. The second is that farmers in developing countries continue to produce more without regards to the environment and health, leaving countries that have eliminated the meat industry unable to help them for moral and political reasons. On the flip side, if they did help developing countries eliminate their meat industries, the global economy would be tanked (no warrant, see first claim). The third warrant is that the meat industries in these countries will continue to grow despite drawbacks, meaning developing countries then have a moral obligation to assist them in order to preserve their populations and the environment, which turns the pro impacts."" marymcnamara The claim is correct, yet this is about 1st world countries. I take issue with the impact again. ""The first is that developing countries have seen a major rise in meat production and will therefore offset benefits to eliminating meat industries in the united states. "" marymcnamara Eliminating injustices in the 1st world helps justice overall. The fact that meat production in developing countries will cause environmental damage is irrelevant to this debate. You seem to be making an argument that the entire world should become vegan, which would include first world countries, if so you are agreeing with me. ""The second is that farmers in developing countries continue to produce more without regards to the environment and health, leaving countries that have eliminated the meat industry unable to help them for moral and political reasons."" marymcnamara You make an argument that the entire world should become vegan, thus agreeing with me. ""On the flip side, if they did help developing countries eliminate their meat industries, the global economy would be tanked (no warrant, see first claim). "" marymcnamara Again, gradual change as seen with my rebuttal to your first claim. "" The third warrant is that the meat industries in these countries will continue to grow despite drawbacks, meaning developing countries then have a moral obligation to assist them in order to preserve their populations and the environment, which turns the pro impacts."" marymcnamara An argument for everyone to become vegan. ""Ethics- Rights are unique to human beings rights only have meaning within a moral community only human beings live in a moral community adult mammals don't understand or practice living according to a moral code the differences in the way human beings and adult mammals experience the world are morally relevant therefore rights is a uniquely human concept and only applies to human beings (4)"" marymcnamara Animals already have some rights. There are plenty of anti-animal cruelty laws. See what happens if you commit one of these acts in public. This argument also falls apart when dealing with the mentally challenged. An insane person can't be accountable for his or her actions, yet also has certain rights. Animals are sentient and can feel pain. ""AND No impact to ethics, it's mere philosophical speculation Arbitrary Lines- concede this claim, it has no link to the argument, neither King nor Dawkins practiced veganism and are not credible sources. The evidence was shifted to try to favor pro's argument and should therefore be dropped in the debate."" Mary You are the one with philosophical speculation. How are MLK and Dawkins not credible sources? Just because someone isn't vegan, doesn't discredit them intellectually. Also, are the authors of all the links you provided vegan? By your train of thought we should discredit them if they aren't. About 2000 characters left going to quote you less. ""Humane Washing- http://www.qmscotland.co.uk...... This link gives multiple reasons as to why meat is good for humans, meaning that there is a reason behind killing animals (to eat) and is therefore not an ""unnecessary harm"""" Mary Yes, meat can provide substance and is better than starving, yet we can receive all those nutrients on a vegan diet, especially with fortified foods and supplements. You seem to miss the entire point of humane washing. Animals are still often mistreated. There will always be the conflict of interest between animal welfare and the profit motive. There will always be studies that contradict each other. Yet, this is how science works. Some studies will find a strong correlation between cholesterol and heart disease and others will find none. Overwhelmingly the answer is becoming clear that vegetarians have an advantage over meat eaters. Remember the meat industry is huge and has lots of money to influence results. As for the environment see these links. [6][7][8] If you use pasture raise animals you need a lot of acreage thus deforestation. Factory farming requires massive amounts of water and grain. Fishing is incredibly destructive. Vegan is clearly the environmentally superior choice. Thanks for the debate I look forward to next round. Sources. 5. http://www.thefreedictionary.com... 6. http://www.greenpeace.org... 7. http://www.earthsave.org... 8. http://wwf.panda.org..."	PRO	61
61	S625b4e3a-Afd90f916	I Can Make You Become a Vegetarian	I partially watched the video as asked, but found that it had little impact on my feelings towards meat. I was already well aware of the bitter things that occur in slaughterhouses to put food on our plates; I find it is a necessary evil to maintain a healthy lifestyle with all the nutrients you need to survive. Vegetarians must take extra precautions to gain every nutrient the human body requires. [1] The resolution was that Pro would turn me vegetarian. This has not happened; I will continue to eat meat. Thank you for the quick debate. [1] - http://www.medicinenet.com...	CON	62
62	Sc6d799ed-Aa71bbe72	People should stop eating meat.	When animals eat animals it nature. We don't need them to survive we have all we could possibly need to survive why torture an animal when you could have something like pasta or salad. We don't just chose to be vegetarian or vegan we know the facts about how animals are treated. Also the animals eat thing that are very unhealthy for them and when you eat the animals you are eating the harmful product it ate. Its not just bad for the animal it's bad for you.	PRO	63
63	Sc6d799ed-A2e73a59a	People should stop eating meat.	I accept this challenge. Please make your arguments.	CON	64
64	Sc6d799ed-A68bb9c01	People should stop eating meat.	Yes my final argument Is that it is wrong. And I have proof that animals are eating chemicals and that they are being tortured it doesn't take a genius. How would you feel if you where locked up in a small cage. Being tortured and fed horrible things. Think about the animals not yourself. If we were to come to a situation where we had no other good source that's a different story.	PRO	65
65	Sc6d799ed-A1ae2242a	People should stop eating meat.	One reason to go vegetarian or Vegan is that it's good for the environment. I strongly believe that and know for a fact that factory farms are taking away water and using it for there large unnecessary quantity of animals. I find it horrible to eat and innocent creature that once had a soul and a beating heart.	PRO	66
66	Scce0604d-A7ec3f065	Every adult in first world countries should be vegan.	"Outline I. Intro II. Animal suffering ethics III. Environment IV. Health V. Conclusion VI. Sources I. Intro Thanks for accepting this debate. I will be arguing that every adult in first world countries should be vegan. Exceptions, rare medical conditions, extraordinary circumstances, and lab grown meat. [0] Examples of extraordinary circumstances would be stuck on a desert island or in an elevator shaft. There are three main points to my argument, animal suffering & ethics, environment issues, and health concerns. As a responsible adult and productive member of society I feel it is necessary to take care of one's health, the environment, and to show compassion for animals. II. Animal suffering ethics First and foremost is animal suffering and ethics. Claim 0: There is no survival need to eat animal products. Warrant 0: ""Typically, vegans can avoid nutritional problems if appropriate food choices are made. Their health status appears to be at least as good as other vegetarians, such as lactoovovegetarians.""[1] Impact: Any suffering via the raising, transportation, and breeding of livestock can be seen as animal cruelty. Vegan is the morally superior path. Claim 1: Animals suffer greatly during factory farming. Warrant 1: Common knowledge. Impact 1: When combined with the fact that we don't need to eat meat to survive and the abundance of wealth in 1st world countries, factory farming has no relevant difference than dog fighting, pig wrestling, pigeon shooting, and cock fighting. We are simply eating meat for pleasure at the cost of great suffering and pain to animals. This is animal cruelty. Halt a large portion of animal cruelty by becoming vegan. Claim 2: Humans have drawn an arbitrary line between animals and humans. Warrant 2: Richard Dawkins a famous person known for his intellect says so. [2] Impact 2: This is a cruel double standard. Such a double standard is an injustice. ""Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere."" [3] Martin Luther King, Jr. As long as such an injustice is allowed to stand, a threat to justice everywhere remains. Become vegan today to help remedy this injustice. Claim 3: Cage-free, free range, pasture raised, and their variants are a form of humane washing. Warrant 3: ""the movement to treat farm animals better is based on the idea that it is wrong to subject them to unnecessary harm; yet, killing animals we have no need to eat constitutes the ultimate act of unnecessary harm."" [4] Impact 3: While factory farming is common knowledge humane washing is not. Not only does humane washing have the injustice of animal cruelty but of deliberate deceit to the public. Adults in 1st world countries should become vegan thus boycotting such products. III. Environment If you paid attention in elementary level science class you learned about the food chain, autotrophs, heterotrophs, and tropic levels. That each trophic level requires significantly higher amount of biomass and thus energy. Therefore, it is logical to eat at a lower level in the food chain, plants instead of animals. Cows require up to sixteen pounds of grain to produce one pound of beef. Then, there is destructive fishing habits, rain forest deforestation to clear land for cows, and so forth. IV. Health I think it is immoral to carelessly destroy your health and leech off of the various forms of welfare and public assistance. I ideally a person should repay his or her society and become an industrious citizen. There are many health benefits from becoming vegan with little health concerns. The benefits including receiving plenty of the good while avoiding the bad. The good being antioxidants, fiber and phytonutrients. The bad being excess fat, saturated fat, cholesterol, heterocyclic amines, endotoxins, and IGF-1. V. Conclusion The first world is plagued by immoral and morbidly obese humans leeching off not only their own nations but destroying the environment for everyone. We can no longer afford to allow these evil humans to desecrate our morals and future. They will hide behind their religions and selfish ideologies, nevertheless we cannot afford to be infinitely patient. For justice, the environment, and your health become vegan today. All adults in first world countries barring a few exception should become vegan as soon as possible. Thank you for reading and thank you for the debate. VI. Sources 0. http://prime.peta.org... 1. http://ajcn.nutrition.org... 2. https://richarddawkins.net... 3. https://www.brainyquote.com... 4. http://freefromharm.org..."	PRO	67
67	Scce0602e-Afe209d04	Every adult in first world countries should be vegan.	"Round two main argument Outline I. Intro II. Animal suffering ethics III. Environment IV. Health V. Conclusion VI. Sources I. Intro There are three main points to my argument, animal suffering & ethics, environment issues, and health concerns. As a responsible adult and productive member of society I feel it is necessary to take care of one's health, the environment, and to show compassion for animals. II. Animal suffering ethics First and foremost is animal suffering and ethics. Claim 0: There is no survival need to eat animal products. Warrant 0: ""Typically, vegans can avoid nutritional problems if appropriate food choices are made. Their health status appears to be at least as good as other vegetarians, such as lactoovovegetarians.""[0] Impact: Any suffering via the raising, transportation, and breeding of livestock can be seen as animal cruelty. Vegan is the morally superior path. Claim 1: Animals suffer greatly during factory farming. Warrant 1: Common knowledge. Impact 1: When combined with the fact that we don't need to eat meat to survive and the abundance of wealth in 1st world countries, factory farming has no relevant difference than dog fighting, pig wrestling, pigeon shooting, and cock fighting. We are simply eating meat for pleasure at the cost of great suffering and pain to animals. This is animal cruelty. Halt a large portion of animal cruelty by becoming vegan. Claim 2: Humans have drawn an arbitrary line between animals and humans. Warrant 2: Richard Dawkins a famous person known for his intellect says so. [1] Impact 2: This is a cruel double standard. Such a double standard is an injustice. ""Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere."" [2] Martin Luther King, Jr. As long as such an injustice is allowed to stand, a threat to justice everywhere remains. Become vegan today to help remedy this injustice. Claim 3: Cage-free, free range, pasture raised, and their variants are a form of humane washing. Warrant 3: ""the movement to treat farm animals better is based on the idea that it is wrong to subject them to unnecessary harm; yet, killing animals we have no need to eat constitutes the ultimate act of unnecessary harm."" [3] Impact 3: While factory farming is common knowledge humane washing is not. Not only does humane washing have the injustice of animal cruelty but of deliberate deceit to the public. Adults in 1st world countries should become vegan thus boycotting such products. III. Environment If you paid attention in elementary level science class you learned about the food chain, autotrophs, heterotrophs, and tropic levels. That each trophic level requires significantly higher amount of biomass and thus energy. Therefore, it is logical to eat at a lower level in the food chain, plants instead of animals. Cows require up to sixteen pounds of grain to produce one pound of beef. Then, there is destructive fishing habits, rain forest deforestation to clear land for cows, and so forth. IV. Health I think it is immoral to carelessly destroy your health and leech off of the various forms of welfare and public assistance. I ideally a person should repay his or her society and become an industrious citizen. There are many health benefits from becoming vegan with little health concerns. The benefits including receiving plenty of the good while avoiding the bad. The good being antioxidants, fiber and phytonutrients. The bad being excess fat, saturated fat, cholesterol, heterocyclic amines, endotoxins, and IGF-1. V. Conclusion The first world is plagued by immoral and morbidly obese humans leeching off not only their own nations but destroying the environment for everyone. We can no longer afford to allow these evil humans to desecrate our morals and future. They will hide behind their religions and selfish ideologies, nevertheless we cannot afford to be infinitely patient. For justice, the environment, and your health become vegan today. All adults in first world countries barring a few exception should become vegan as soon as possible. Thank you for reading and thank you for the debate. VI. Sources 0. http://ajcn.nutrition.org... 1. https://richarddawkins.net... 2. https://www.brainyquote.com... 3. http://freefromharm.org..."	PRO	68
68	Scce0600f-A105f6c6f	Every adult in first world countries should be vegan.	"Round two main argument Outline I. Intro II. Animal suffering ethics III. Environment IV. Health V. Conclusion VI. Sources I. Intro There are three main points to my argument, animal suffering & ethics, environment issues, and health concerns. As a responsible adult and productive member of society I feel it is necessary to take care of one's health, the environment, and to show compassion towards animals. II. Animal suffering ethics First and foremost is animal suffering and ethics. Claim 0: There is no survival need to eat animal products. Warrant 0: ""Typically, vegans can avoid nutritional problems if appropriate food choices are made. Their health status appears to be at least as good as other vegetarians, such as lactoovovegetarians.""[0] Impact: Any suffering via the raising, transportation, and breeding of livestock can be seen as animal cruelty. Vegan is the morally superior path. Claim 1: Animals suffer greatly during factory farming. Warrant 1: Common knowledge. Impact 1: When combined with the fact that we don't need to eat meat to survive and the abundance of wealth in 1st world countries, factory farming has no relevant difference than dog fighting, pig wrestling, pigeon shooting, and cock fighting. We are simply eating meat for pleasure at the cost of great suffering and pain to animals. This is animal cruelty. Halt a large portion of animal cruelty by becoming vegan. Claim 2: Humans have drawn an arbitrary line between animals and humans. Warrant 2: Richard Dawkins a famous person known for his intellect says so. [1] Impact 2: This is a cruel double standard. Such a double standard is an injustice. ""Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere."" [2] Martin Luther King, Jr. As long as such an injustice is allowed to stand, a threat to justice everywhere remains. Become vegan today to help remedy this injustice. Claim 3: Cage-free, free range, pasture raised, and their variants are a form of humane washing. Warrant: ""the movement to treat farm animals better is based on the idea that it is wrong to subject them to unnecessary harm; yet, killing animals we have no need to eat constitutes the ultimate act of unnecessary harm."" [3] Impact 3: While factory farming is common knowledge humane washing is not. Not only does humane washing have the injustice of animal cruelty but of deliberate deceit to the public. Adults in 1st world countries should become vegan thus boycotting such products. III. Environment If you paid attention in elementary level science class you learned about the food chain, autotrophs, heterotrophs, and tropic levels. That each trophic level requires significantly higher amount of biomass and thus energy. Therefore, it is logical to eat at a lower level in the food chain, plants instead of animals. Cows require up to sixteen pounds of grain to produce one pound of beef. Then, there is destructive fishing habits, rain forest deforestation to clear land for cows, and so forth. IV. Health I think it is immoral to carelessly destroy your health and leech off of the various forms of welfare and public assistance. Ideally a person should repay his or her society and become an industrious citizen. There are many health benefits from becoming vegan with little health concerns. The benefits including receiving plenty of the good while avoiding the bad. The good being antioxidants, fiber and phytonutrients. The bad being excess fat, saturated fat, cholesterol, heterocyclic amines, endotoxins, and IGF-1. V. Conclusion The first world is plagued by immoral and morbidly obese humans leeching off not only their own nations but destroying the environment for everyone. We can no longer afford to allow these evil humans to desecrate our morals and future. They will hide behind their religions and selfish ideologies, nevertheless we cannot afford to be infinitely patient. For justice, the environment, and your health become vegan today. All adults in first world countries barring a few exception should become vegan as soon as possible. Thank you for reading and thank you for the debate. VI. Sources 0. http://ajcn.nutrition.org... 1. https://richarddawkins.net... 2. https://www.brainyquote.com... 3. http://freefromharm.org..."	PRO	69
69	Scce0604d-Ac9dcb428	Every adult in first world countries should be vegan.	"I will go line by line for the rebuttal, then extend my first argument First my opponent gives a definition of absolutism but fails to explain why it is best for this round. Where's your warrant? Then my opponents assumes I think the meat industry would be eliminated overnight, however my supporting evidence is specific to things like GDP and why the vegetarian and vegan industry would NOT be able to replace it. You have to disprove this warrant in order to gain ground because if there is no other SUSTAINABLE alternative to food production in the status quo, adopting radical veganism does more harm than good. In counter to environmental claims, here is a good article about the misconceptions of meat industry environmental harms, and justification to its use in diets. https://www.theguardian.com... Then my opponent claims that meat would be outlawed when vegans were the majority. This is incorrect for several reasons. First, there are many real world examples of bad things that are in the minority and still legal such as cigarettes, dog meat, and duck meat. According to an article published in the last two years ( http://inhabitat.com... ) it is still legal in 6 states to eat cat and dog meat, meaning a federal ban of meat coming from cows and chickens is highly unlikely even in a pre dominantly vegan world. Then my opponent makes to claims 1) that my impact and warrant don't match. This is not true, the reason humanity could not survive a vegan diet in this example had nothing to do with the health debate but the sustainability debate which I can't seem to get my opponent to answer directly. This article is excellent on this debate (https://gpfarmblog.wordpress.com... ) and explains why things like the amount of healthy land able to be used is not sufficient and will not become sufficient, and all plant diet would use too much water to sustain the earth and itself, and many plants would not survive growing in industrial conditions which are the only conditions that would be able to produce enough in the first place. A worldwide vegan diet is unsustainable, end of story. Then my opponent says that the developing countries impact doesn't make sense and that I am agreeing the world should become vegan. These are both incorrect. First, the exclusion of second and third world countries from the pro contention means the pro can never solve which, on the most fundamental level possible, is the point I was trying to make. Second, I am saying that the entire world WOULD HAVE TO become vegan to make any real change, but not that it SHOULD. That is why I am Con in this debate. Then my opponent says their authors are credible and mine would have to be vegan to be credible. First of all your authors are not credible. You applied their philosophy to prove people should be vegan, but they themselves weren't meaning obviously they did not feel the need to apply there own philosophy in the way you are doing as the pro. Second, my authors would actually have to be meat eaters to be credible because a) most of them are writing from medical and moral standpoints and b) they must practice what they preach to be credible. Finally my opponent addresses humane washing. I'd like to start off answering this by offering this article : https://medium.com... (morality debate) . It gives empirical evidence as to how a vegan world would actually be a world more cruel to animals. The warrants are very long and I don't have enough characters to elaborate on them. I would also like to point out that my opponent has turned an argument they made on their own case into a reason to vote against them and that is this: logically, if meat is outlawed like a drug, prostitution, etc people would react violently and meat eating would become a violent merciless trade. Ever heard the expression ""laws are meant to be broken"" ? On to extensions: Extend all my health claims in round 1 including the counter claim I made at the very end. here are a couple of credible articles to contribute to the health debate: http://www.thehealthyhomeeconomist.com... http://articles.mercola.com... (health factor) Next extend source 5 from the last round which disproves some environmental claims my opponent made and actually gives environmental incentive to keep the meat industry. Next extend my ethics argument. My opponent has failed to disprove that ethics are solely a human concept . This is critical for the debate because applying justice to animals serves no purpose if animals themselves cannot recognize it as justice. It is simply self serving for the pro. Next extend my economy argument at the top of my con case. Any risk of damaging the meat industry's GDP, even with gradual transition, means you vote neg because it is still the biggest impact in this round. Finally, and I'm only doing this because it has happened to me before, I'd like to clarify the next round is for rebuttals only. No new evidence should be submitted unless it follows a line of argumentation already established and does not make any new claims. If you accidentally make a new claim or something it should be disregarded but I won't be someone who claims to win the round because of it, since that does no good."	CON	70
70	S95769c7a-A828bcdb4	Vegetarians and vegans should at least let their kids try meat out once.	In my opinion, kids born to vegetarian households should be allowed to try meat out. Because it is their decision if they want to eat meat or not. If they do, then when they go out to eat or over to a friends house they should be allowed to eat meat. I'm not saying that the vegetarian parents should cook meat on their grill, oven, etc. what I'm saying is to let the kid eat what he wants when He out to eat. And if the kid doesn't like meat or he truly does believe that meat us murder, then he can choose to live that lifestyle. There's absolutely nothing wrong with that. Some parents would say that you can make your own decisions when your older. But by that time since the kid has never had meat. They will get sick from it everytime they try to eat it. Plus, kids can get bullied at school fir being a vegetarian. Or worse, kids could try to force them to eat meat. Which could mean a lawsuit. I will get into much more detail with each of these things as the debate moves on. And once again, I'm not against people being vegetarians.	PRO	71
71	S57f0866c-A8cd1355e	Humans should be vegetarians.	"Sources From Round 3 [1] http://www.uscourts.gov... [2] http://www.faith.org.uk... [3] http://time.com... [4] http://michaelbluejay.com... [5] http://geotenners.blogspot.com... [6] http://www.worldatlas.com... [7] https://journals.law.stanford.edu... [8] http://www.nrcs.usda.gov... [9] http://www.sustainabletable.org... [10] http://healthyeating.sfgate.com...; Round 4 1. Meat eating and the killing of farm animals is immoral. As I explained in the previous round, it is impossible to determine whether or not God sets any standard of morality because it cannot be proven that God does or doesn't exist. Therefore, religion is irrelevant to this argument. My opponent didn't provide a rebuttal for this point. Natural law is a concept created by humans that applies to everyone in the world [1], not by a figure that might or might not exist. Regarding the immorality of killing innocent animal species, an argument of virtue also exists. It states that humans should live their lives with compassion, kindness and generosity. Killing animals only serves the purpose of pleasuring humans' needs for taste (and recreation), as we can easily survive without meat [2]. As my opponent stated, humans and their ancestors were forced to eat meat a long time ago. However, we now have the agricultural technology to survive without it. In response to my opponent's statement saying that humans are no different than carnivores and omnivores regarding meat eating, humans are actually much different than carnivores and omnivores since these species are forced to eat meat in order to survive. The main incentive for humans eating meat is pleasure, which correlates with selfishness. I am expecting my opponent to rebut my previous statement by saying that a moral standard still hasn't been set since morality is a matter of opinion. However, I have now proven that humans are not required to eat meat in order to survive, and it can be determined that killing species with memory and emotions is wrong (if that species is unnecessary for human survival). It is possible to disagree with this statement, but that would show lack of compassion and kindness, which have been proved to increase happiness and the well being of a society [3]. 2. Meat eating is evolutionary incorrect. My opponent admitted that humans lack characteristics found amongst many omnivores. However, my opponent claimed that teeth indicate humans as omnivores, not herbavores. It is true that humans have molars, which are helpful in breaking down meat. However, there are many ways to prove that human teeth and molars are indicate herbavoral status. For example, molars of omnivores and carnivores are like sharp blades. Although molars help break down meat, herbavores still have them, although they are flattened. The molars of humans are much more flattened than the teeth of omnivores and carnivores, therefore humans are characteristic of herbavores in this manner. Humans are also characteristic of herbavores in terms of jaw type, jaw movement, jaw location, the length of chewing, etc [4]. As implied earlier, humans have evolved to the point where meat eating is unnecessary since our intellegence has allowed us to create proficient technology to distribute other types of food. This is why meat eating causes many more problems to humans than it does to omnivores/carnivores; Our bodies have adapted to healthier foods (This will be discussed further in the next section). Carnivores and omnivores may contract deseases from raw meat, but this simply occurs by chance, as it happens less often to these types of species than it does to humans. Why? Evolution. Carnivores and omnivores consume a much greater amount of meat than humans, therefore their bodies have evolved to digest other animals much more easily. My opponent mentioned that humans often enjoy raw meat and fish in the form of sushi and ""rare"" cooked food. This doesn't take away from the fact that it is still risky (admitted by my opponent) to eat this type of food (especially for those who are pregnant or have a weak immune system), as this temperature is not as risky for carnivores and omnivores. Raw meat contains bacteria and parisites, which increases the likelihood humans will become ill when consuming meat at this temperature. Therefore, when humans choose to digest meat at this low temperature, it is not an intellectual decision, but simply a decision based on their needs (linking back to the morality argument). My opponent used the 1972 Andes flight distaster, in which humans canabolized on eachother, to claim that humans have the instincts of omnivores. As explained earlier, it is true that humans have these insticts, but only in desparate situations. Although humans know they can find meat in places aside from farms, they still lack the instincts to chase and kill living animals, unlike natural meat eaters. In nature, humans feel more driven to eat fruit and many other crops more than a living animal, which proves we lack the instincts of any omnivore or carnivore. Humans only feel like eating meat when it has already been prepared, unlike any omnivore or carnivore. 3. Meat eating is unhealthy I feel that my opponent misunderstood the argument regarding McDonalds. I realize that this fast food chain and many other fast food chains are unhealthy because they prepare meat poorly. However, the point I'm trying to make is that this wouldn't be a problem if humans were vegetarian. Due to chance, some meat will be preapred poorly. If humans were vegetarian, it would be impossible to prepare meat poorly since there would be no meat. I understand that some meats are healthy, but there are many vegetarian alternatives for protein, such as beans, quinoah, tofu, fake meats, etc. [5] Omega 3 and other nutrients found in meat can also be found in the form a vitamin supplements. Again, humans don't require meat in order to survive. I never mentioned that meat should be banned. The purpose of the debate is to prove whether or not humans should become vegetarian, not whether or not freedom should be taken away from meat eating humans. As my opponent defined in round 1, the word ""should"" implies a moral, ethical, or desirability factor. It doesn't imply the restriction of freedom, therefore my opponent's argument regarding this sub-topic is irrelevent to this debate. 4. Meat eating causes pollution, deforestation, and excessive land use. My opponent was unable to thoroughly rebut against my argument due to lack of space, although he stated that meat eating doesn't inherently cause excessive land use. The flaw in my opponent's argument is similar to the flaw in his McDonald's argument: Although meat eating may not be a direct cause of excessive land use, it's still an indirect cause... still a cause! If humans didn't eat meat, excessive land use wouldn't be an issue, and I proved this point in my previous argument. My opponent also mentioned that many types of animal agriculture don't require land. Fishing is a valid example, but almost all livestock requires land, and much of this land is used for livestock. Evidence was provided for this claim in my previous argument. I look forward to reading my opponents response! Round 4 Sources [1] http://www.thefreedictionary.com... [2] http://www.bbc.co.uk... [3] http://greatergood.berkeley.edu... Out of room :("	PRO	72
72	Sedd9358d-Aef732884	Meat production should be significantly reduced	"Thank you, Lexicaholic for waiting patiently for my belated response. I had to attend my brother's Memorial Day weekend baseball tournament. Sorry for implying you were an idiot. I was tired when I wrote my last argument. I would also like to remind my opponent that this debate's resolution is ""Meat production should be significantly reduced"" not ""Meat production for human use should be significantly reduced."" My opponent has ambiguously asserted that ""meat consumption"" should be lowered instead of production. He seems to take it as an axiom, without informing me, that he means human consumption. >> ""but in the face of a changing market there is an alternative to dissolution: adaptation. Perhaps meat production will continue unabated as a source of protein in animal foods, or for use in biology experiments, or perhaps it will become more specialized and cater to the wealthy who often have peculiar tastes (more Kobe beef)."" << If an animal eats meat as a source of protein or some rich dude eats some Kobe beef, isn't that consumption? Let me give you the exact definition of ‘consumption' Consumption - the act of consuming, as by use, decay, or destruction. (Dictionary.com) >> ""as I am concerned with human health and not the process of the production of meat, as my opponent is."" << My third contention in my first post was concerning the fact that red meat raises mortality! >> ""... a significant decrease in production without a correlating decrease in consumption would not reduce DEMAND but rather raise the value of meat, as the supply would no longer be sufficient to meet the DEMAND at its pre-reduction rate."" << Don't be distracted by the emphasis, the very first line reveals the fallacy of the statement. He conveniently forgot to put the word ‘human' between ‘in' and ‘consumption.' An overall decrease in production to levels below the previous rate of consumption while miraculously still having the same amount of consumption the same amount is impossible. Like I said before, you can't eat what hasn't been made. (and neither can an animal or a Kobe steak fan) My statement that poor people can't currently afford much, if any, steak in no way supports my opponent's argument. >> As increasing supply over demand would lower prices and allow the poor to get their fill of meat. << Now my opponent has switched tactics. Where before he said he wanted people to stop eating meat because it raises mortality etc, now he thinks all the poor people should be eating steak like the upper and middle classes. Then my opponent says that if meat production was lowered, poor people would get even less meat and starve ""to an unhealthily low amount."" But he forgets that if the grain that previously went into meat production was now free to be used for other purposes, there would be plenty to feed this poor, meat-deprived person. My opponent then tries to offer an alternative to the environmentally harmful current method of obtaining meat. It is unrealistic. No practical growth medium has been found for in vitro meat and I suspect one would be hard to produce. It would have to contain all the minerals that make meat so valuable in the first place, which means we might as well drink the growth fluid. Also, in vitro meat doesn't have much less of an environmental impact than normal meat production. All it does is clumsily slightly lower the impact. Therefore, meat production should be significantly reduced: to save our environment, starving people, and lifespan."	PRO	73
73	Sabf80b24-A997f621	Antibiotics should be heavily restricted.	"First of all, here is a personal example. A man named Mark Ledenberg, friend of mine, died from an infection in his arm. He took antibiotics about every day for about a week and a half and died because of overuse of antibiotics. Antibiotics overuse is a huge problem around the world. According to the CDC, the Central Disease Prevention and Control, 2 million people become sick due to antibiotic overuse and about 200, 000 die. This is a number that is only increasing. An antibiotic bacterial infection is when you take so many antibiotics that the bacteria becomes resistant to the antibiotics. Antibiotic bacterial infections are almost impossible to cure and the US spends around 10 - 40%, in some extreme cases, to cure these infections. Once something is resistant and doesn't react to external stimuli, it is very hard to cure. This is why viruses can't be easily cured. Back to the point. Dr. Margaret Chan , the Director-General of the World Health Organization, said , ""The world is entering into a post-antibiotic zone, where even the most common illnesses will no longer be able to be healed."" She means that people take so many antibiotics that soon, all bacteria will become resistant to the antibiotics. If antibiotics were restricted, there would be less of these infections and less money would be spent to cure them. Get ready, because I can't wait for my other argument. GOOD LUCK!"	PRO	74
74	Sc42f2f40-Ae180f03c	Abortion Should Remain Legal	"My opponent argues that women should have an indefinite right to receive an abortion, qualifying the validity of that right as stemming from the inhuman nature of the fetus. I disagree with my opponent's source of validity, as did the Supreme Court in Roe v. Wade. According to that case, though ""the State cannot override [the woman's right to privacy], it has legitimate interests in protecting both the pregnant woman's health and the potentiality of human life, each of which interests grows and reaches a 'compelling' point at various stages of the woman's approach to term."" http://www.law.cornell.edu... The validity of the abortion right therefore stems from the right of an individual (the mother), who is certainly a fully conscious human being, to prevent harm to herself while the 'humanity' of the fetus is uncertain. In an age where prophylactics are common and readily available, and a simple pill can prevent pregnancy before the development of the fetus, it is monstrous to needlessly engage in a behavior that threatens even the potentiality of human life. The threat to the health of the mother can be eliminated before abortion would even become an option. Why is this wrong? As the court noted, there are two compelling interests held by the state: protecting a citizen and protecting a potential citizen. The potential citizen may, in fact, qualify as a citizen when a fetus, but it is impossible to determine; it falls along the thin gray line between human and inhuman. This does not mean that the indefinitely human being is not a human being. It means that it may or may not be so. The court erred on the side of the person who was clearly a citizen, with all the rights inherent thereto, only because there existed no better way to ensure the citizen's rights/well-being. It decided that, provided the two interests were in conflict, the interest of the definite human outweighed those of the indefinite one. However, that was assuming that a risk needed to be taken. A pregnant woman MUST choose whether or not to abort if the ONLY option is abortion. If there are other options besides abortion, that prevent development even earlier, to the point where the continuum can be pushed back further, that option should be taken. As time goes on, the indefiniteness of the developing child's humanity becomes less and less so; therefore, abortion has become less valid as the need to risk lesser indefiniteness diminishes. As such, arguments for abortions undertaken to prevent non life-threatening or physically disabling harm become less and less compelling. Someday, a method could be developed to safely and easily excise the child from the mother and continue the child's development outside of her womb. This would give the mother two options: preventative birth control and interruption of the birthing process within the mother to the benefit of both the mother and the potential life. At such a time, the need to risk what could be classified as the murder of the human being disappears as there is no longer any threat to the life of the definite human that justifies the risk. At this time, abortion should be outlawed, as the compelling interest of the mother's well being would no longer outweigh the compelling interest of the child's."	CON	75
75	S57f0866c-A786b0574	Humans should be vegetarians.	"I'd like to thank the opponent for his timely response. The opponent made a variety of arguments: 1. Meat eating/killing animals is immoral. 2. Meat eating/killing animals is evolutionary incorrect. 3. Meat eating/killing animals is unhealthy. 4. Meat Production causes pollution. 5. Meat Production causes deforestation/excessive land use. I'll be addressing each of these issues individually. Argumentation 1. Meat eating/killing animals is immoral. All of my rebuttals will have a common theme, in that I'll be pointing out repeatedly that the opponent has not provided any evidence to back up his claims. For this argument in particular, the opponent failed to demonstrate why meat eating is immoral. If we are to assume that there is an objective morality, we would need to appeal to the existence of some god that sets the standard of moral correctness. If we are to further assume that some god exists, it would still not justify the claim that eating meat is immoral. The Bible [Gen. 9:3] states that ""every living thing that moves shall be food for [man]."" In Islam, it is considered acceptable to eat many kinds of meat, with limited restrictions. [1] Many Buddhist texts reference even Buddha himself eating meat. [2] It is clear that, even within the framework of popular religions, eating meat is fine. If we are to assume there is no god, then it cannot be claimed that there is an objective morality, as there is nothing existent with the authority to claim that some action is absolutely correct or absolutely incorrect. As such, the claim cannot be made that eating meat is ""immoral"" since there is no authority that can justifiably make that judgement for everyone. 2. Meat Eating/Killing Animals is evolutionarily incorrect. Again, this claim is not substantiated with any evidence. The Vegetarian Resource Group (VRG), which is pro-vegetarianism, states that humans are naturally omnivores, meaning they eat both meat and plants. [3] This is indicated in archaelogical records which has documented human's meat and vegetable eating habits over time. (Think hunter-gatherers.) Furtermore, we have specialized cells that break down meat. If we were evolutionarily incapable of eating meat, these would not exist. It is a well understood scientific fact that humans are omnivores. To claim otherwise requires a great deal of evidential support, since the notion flies in the face of known science. 3. Meat eating is unhealthy. Some meat, like high fat red meat, can have negative health consequences -- a direct result of the high fat content. However, lean red meat is considered healthy, as it provides more protein than fat. [4] Fish is very healthy, in moderation, as it provides access to Omega 3's that have wholistic health benefits. Besides the fact that the claim is patently false, it would be irrelevant if it were true. The Western ideal of ""freedom"" ought to be held in higher regard than ""compulsive healthy eating."" The opponent's logic here could easily be extended to include banning ice cream, candy bars, cookies, most all bottled drinks, most all fast food and even sweet tea. (Gasp!) This is, of course, a ridiculous notion to uphold. People should have the right to eat what they want when they want it, regardless of the health impacts. To deny this is to deny the most fundemental human right -- freedom. 4. Meat production causes pollution. This is sometimes true, but not always. More importantly, meat consumption does not inherently cause pollution. Allow me to elaborate. Many mass preparation facilities cause pollution because of the very fact that they are producing something on a large scale. Be this the production of meat or veggies, the pollution will still happen. Consider that a man can throw a net into the river, catch fish, eat them and not produce any amount of pollution. This shows that meat eating does not directly cause pollution, but rather the way in which we produce meat, which is subject to change as does technology. Finally, I could not find any reports specifically looking at meat eating/animal killing and pollution. Perhaps the opponent can provide this because, as it stands, this is an entirely unsubstantiated claim. 5. Meat production causes deforestation and excessive land use. Unsubstantiated. However, from a logical standpoint, this makes sense. Unfortunately, the alternative to meat eating, vegetarianism, does not solve this issue. Growing the amount of veggies and grains necessary to feed the population takes an enormous amount of land, since the growth needs to happen somewhere. So the ""deforestation and excessive land"" problem, if even significant, would not be solved by cutting out meat. And again, meat eating is not inherently tied to deforestation and land use. The fishing industry, for example, does not affect the trees and does not require the permanent usage of any significant amount of land. Chicken factories can fit inside a single large facility, not requiring the use of great amounts of land. Cattle need less land than a wheat field. It is clear that this issue, if it is an issue, is not solved by affirming the resolution. It is a simple fact that food requires space to be produced, regardless of its form. Conclusion The opponent made many claims and failed to prove any of them. There was not even any supporting evidence presented. Despite this, I analyzed each point and demonstrated the flaws within them. It is clear that, at this point, it cannot be said that ""humans should be vegetarians"". Sources: 1 - http://www.quran-islam.org...(P1156).html 2 - http://www.urbandharma.org...; 3 - https://www.vrg.org...; 4 - http://www.rd.com..."	CON	76
76	Sf67363ae-A631d6e6	People should eat much less meat	I extend my arguments.	PRO	77
77	Sf67363ae-A7813f54	People should eat much less meat	I accept.	CON	78
78	S8aed976f-Aaad313e4	Vegetarianism: we should stop eating other animals.	Firstly I would like to thank true2gaga for participating in this debate. I would like to address the counter point that you have brought up. Being vegetarian, to be precise a lacto vegetarian, means that the only things you are giving up is meat and eggs. This means that you still are eating all dairy products and other animal products. This is a key fact in this debate because being this type of vegetarian makes it that much easier for the individual to get the nutrients that he or she needs. Because the individual is missing out on only meat and eggs, as a researcher you must find what nutrients are prominent in each product. Meat contains mainly fats, proteins and iron. Each of these can be replaced in other food sources. The same goes for eggs, they contain mainly proteins fat and sodium. All of which can also be replaced by your diet. Although some people feel that not eating meat is a waste of a life because they would become weak, this is a complete myth. The reason that vegetarians are perceived as weak and feeble is because they are no fat because of all the meat they are eating. Therefore in comparison to the meat eater they may be weak and feeble, but they usually lead the healthier lifestyle.	PRO	79
79	S57f0866c-A90c46c64	Humans should be vegetarians.	"As a brief note before I get into argumentation, I am taking the negative position such that I am not presenting a case for the opposite of the resolution, but rather I am showing the opponent's arguments to be insufficient. In other words, I'm not claiming that ""humans should be meat eaters"", but instead that the opponent's arguments for his claim are not sufficient in affirming the resolution. As such, my ""opening statements"" could really only take the form they did. I will recognize, however, that the opponent did label R3 and R4 as being the ""evidence presenting"" rounds, so I will excuse him for failing to produce evidence in R2 and I ask the voters not to hold that against him. Let's move into arguments. 1. Meat eating is immoral. The opponent clarifies that the objective moral standard to which he is appealing is natural law. He describes this as ""a body of moral principles that serves as the basis for all human actions."" As I presented in the previous round, there is no way to prove that a set of morals is objective outside of an appeal to a god, since only a god could be provide a morally absolute framework. (Though even that claim is dubious.) Because of this, the opponent's claim that natural law is in some way absolute is unjustified and unproven. Something is not objective simply because one wants it to be. The opponent would find it impossible to prove that some set of beliefs apply to everyone in the world. But let us assume that ""natural law"" exists. Notice that the opponent's definition doesn't define ""natural law"" so much as it defines ""morality"". Natural law specifically would seem to be an appeal to nature and the way that humans naturally act. In this framework, it would still seem meat eating is still not immoral. The omnivore point, which we cover next, greatly evidences this. We are biologically constructed to eat both meat and plants. Our hunter-gatherer ancestors had to eat meat in order to survive, since agriculture could not provide adequate plant material. In our natural state, we are simply omnivores -- and the very definition of an omnivore is one that eats meat and plants. Perhaps the opponent is attempting to claim that it is ""more civilized"" to eat only plants, but this would again be unfounded. Carnivores and omnivores have been eating meat since they came into existence and humans are no different. 2. Meat eating and killing animals is evolutionary incorrect. The opponent opens by agreeing that we are ""natural omnivores"". (Notice how this harkens back to the argument regarding ""natural law"".) He says that we, however, do not have many of the characteristics of omnivores and that we have different instincts than omnivores. Notably, this does not change the fact that we are omnivores, but we will discuss these two points anyway. Characteristics It is true that we lack some characteristics found amongst many omnivores. It is equally as true that many omnivores do not possess these mentioned traits. The opponent references our teeth, claiming that they are not as sharp as some other animal's teeth are. You can often tell a type of animal (carnivore/herbivore/omnivore) by their teeth. An herbivore often has flat, moral-like teeth which is great for crushing plants down to size. Carnivores often have canines that are good at tearing meet apart. [1] Humans have both canines and molars, indicating our omnivore status. We can easily eat plants due to our morals, while it is very easy to tear into a steak with the help of our canines. Our teeth directly indicate our omnivoric nature, not an herbivore nature as the opponent claims. Edawg notes that humans don't eat raw meat, unlike other animals. This is a common misconception for a few reasons. First, it assumes that animals can eat raw meat without problems. This is untrue. [2] Meat eaters often contract diseases and get parasites due to raw meat ingestion, just as humans due. It is true that carnivorous animals are less likely to get sick from raw meat, and this is easily understandable as a product of evolution. Lions devour their meat as soon as the kill takes place. Humans, on the other hand, have long taken to storing meat for long periods of time. Next, it assumes that humans don't eat raw meat. This is equally as untrue. [2] A rare steak is essentially raw except for the crispy edges, and it is enjoyed this way by many people. Many types of fish are regularly eaten raw, in the form of sushi. Us humans choose to cook many types of meat because we are intelligent enough to know that cooked meat is less risky than raw meat. It is purely an intellectual decision to turn our meat into a less dangerous state. Instincts Humans are instictually driven to consume meat. This is best noticed when the sight of a juicy steak causes us to salivate. This salivation is a biological response to the idea of consuming food, implying that meat is naturally one such type of food. When hungry, humans will desire to kill and eat animals. This is best exemplified by the 1972 Andes flight disaster in which humans got stranded in the alps and had to literally eat one another to stay alive. Most humans are not hungry enough to simply kill things and eat their raw meat. We are intelligent enough to know that food is more easily come by in other places. Contrary to the opponent's statement, animals do not just ""kill and eat"" whenever they see animals. Lions, for instance, will generally kill a single gazelle at a time and not kill again until sufficiently hungry. If animals simply killed other animals upon sight, the biosphere would be a very different place. 3. Meat eating is unhealthy. While I have admitted that fatty red meat has adverse health impacts, there are many other types of meat that are actually healthy. This is unrefuted. Instead, the opponent talks about restaurants like McDonald's and the obesity it causes. McDonalds isn't bad for you because they use meat, it's bad for you because the way in which everything is prepared is high in fat and sodium. If McDonalds only sold their patties, one would find the level of obesity due to McDonalds decreases significantly. More imporantly, the opponent has not rebutted against my argument that the ""healthiness"" of a food is not grounds enough to simply ban the food. If we were to ban meat because some meat has unhealthy properties, we would similarly need to ban many other foods, like ice cream, most dairy products, candy and almost all bottled beverages. Clearly this goes against the idea of ""freedom"", the idea which should outweigh ""unhealthiness"". People should have the right to eat both healthy food and unhealthy food, just as they should have the right to either go to the gym or not go to the gym. Long story short, most meat isn't bad for you and, even if it was, that would not be grounds to ban meat, deny freedoms and move to vegetarianism. 4. Meat eating causes pollution, deforestation and excessive land use. I'll cover this in more detail in the next round, since I'm about out of space. There, I'll be specifically addressing why meat production is necessary to support an increasing population and that, without meat, many people would starve and die. For now, I'll reiterate a point that was not addressed. Meat eating currently requires great amounts of land use. Meat eating itself does not inherently cause it. Improving technologies allow for more efficient farming. More importantly, many types of animal agricultural do not require land. Fishing is the best example. And if it can be shown that even fishing does not cause deforestation, it cannot be said that all meat should be banned on the grounds of these point alone. I look forward to the next round. 1- http://www.miamicosmeticdentalcare.com...; 2- http://www.geek.com...; 3- https://www.gov.uk..."	CON	80
80	Sc42f2f40-A47f1195e	Abortion Should Remain Legal	"'The right of the mother outweighs the rights of the fetus only so long as there is some risk to the mother in not denying the fetus those rights.' How does that statement make sense if you said before hat the laws could be changed? And I'm pretty sure that abortion is legal for any reason before the third trimester, that's why it is called the woman's right to privacy. But even if it has restrictions in some states or more restrictions are made, then those laws could be changed, as you said. 'Let's say you have a pet cat.' That analogy fails when it gets to the 7th word. A cat is a living thing, not a fetus. A cat is also an animal, and animals do not have the rights that humans have. The only rights animals have are the protection from assault and murder if they are someone's property. If you have an animal as part of your property, then you can do whatever you want to it. Since animals are also not self-aware, and human fetuses are not self-aware, they are both property of humans. So a woman has complete control of her property. 'If a person so dislikes living, that person could end it, and may have a right to do so. One does not have the right to choose for others, however, whether or not their lives should be lived. You have successfully made an argument for the right to commit suicide. You have not made an argument for the right of one person to take a chance of killing another person when there is no need to take that chance.' There is a home near mine that houses two kids with many deformities including retardation. When I'm outside I can sometimes hear them screaming in pain. Their mother has an extremely hard time caring for both of them and so does the third child who has no deformities. When he was younger, he pleading with his mom to not leave him alone with them. He also probably has thoughts such as 'why me, why do I have to live life with siblings like these when everyone else has normal siblings?' Many people with deformities may not know how to commit suicide, or that suicide even exists. And why should you let them go through a pain-filled life and end it with more pain, instead of just save them from all of that with an abortion? 'Thank you for conceding this argument to me without my having to do it myself. See one way below:' The only problem with stem cells hat that article mentions is that some people think it's unethical. It is not unethical, because a fetus is not a living thing, it is a potential living thing. Now with stem cells, it is made into a potential life-saver. 'There are always going to be people like me trying to bring us forward, and there are always going to be people like you trying to hold us back.' - youtube user TheAmazingAtheist 'Sex is not a surprise. Tell me a valid ethical reason for a woman not using any of the above options, knowing that she is having sex?' It may not be a surprise, but a lot of people aren't going to be testing for pregnancy or taking pills right after they have sex. If a decent amount of protection is used, then a lot of people won't think there was a chance that one little sperm might've slipped by. Although the chance is low, there's still a chance. The woman might not even remember having sex, she could have been tired, a little drunk, or both. 'Some ‘vegetarians' eat fish because ‘they're not animals.' After all, they don't have fur.' True, people draw the line at different places, but is eating meat illegal? No, because if someone doesn't want to eat meat then they don't have to. If someone doesn't want to get an abortion then they don't have to either. 'No, many people couldn't afford to pay for the (many more) millions of unplanned babies born if people didn't have contraceptives. Or so I can argue, as you've provided no statistics to review.' You don't need statistic to know the obvious. Of course there are many people in the U.S. and the world that can't even pay to feed themselves. You know what what happen if abortion were made illegal? The population would grow. You know what happens when the population grows? More mouths to feed. More mouths to feed = less food to people ratio. When food is more valuable, the price will rise. When the price of food rises it affects everyone, and their tax dollars, including the people barely making a living today. And it doesn't only affect food, it affects every resource that people need. 'So does she want it or not? If she's the type who would argue that labor pains alone mean that she earns the right to parent the child, I would argue that she should have the child TAKEN away.' ? What re you talking about? I said pregnancy and labor, not just labor pains. And to have the child taken away would mean the woman would have to endure both, what you said doesn't make sense. 'Awesome ad hominem/straw man attack you've presented. No, I value mitigating harm. I can not, and do not, define whether or not a fetus is a human. I do recognize that a fetus MAY be a human. If the fetus MAY be a human, and it has not and will not predictably cause harm to a person, then regardless of its origin I do not see a valid reason for taking its life. Because it MAY be murder, and I would rather not take that chance needlessly.' First off, thanks for the compliment. But the thing is, a fetus if NOT a human. Read this web page, it'll help you understand: http://www.capitalism.org.... A fetus is basically a parasite. It's feeding off of a human, and is not conscious. It is aware of nothing, it's subconsciously feeding off of a human's body because it isn't developed enough to live outside of it yet. Parasites are not human, therefor, a fetus at most is a potential human. '[sarcasm] Oh, yes, clearly I am in love with rape.' I never accused you of being in love with rape, I just said you were okay with women having to endure the after-effects of it (pregnancy, labor, caring for the child, the child as a permanent reminder of the incident.) 'If someone murdered your sibling, would you go ahead and kill the murderer's kid? I hope not. The burden for the recompense of a vile crime of the progenitor should not be transferred to its progeny.' ABORTION IS NOT MURDER. Here's an excerpt from the web page I sent: 'Murder is the taking of the life of another human being through the initiation of physical force. Abortion is not murder, because a fetus is not a human being -- it is a potential human being, i.e. it is part of the woman. The concept murder only applies to the initiation of physical force used to destroy an actual human being, i.e., such as when ""pro-life"" terrorists bomb abortion clinics.' 'Not a thing. What do you not understand about how these advances invalidate your resolution?' Even if we had alternative ways to terminate a pregnancy without the standard abortion procedure, it would still be an abortion, because it 'aborts' the fetus. 'Not indefinitely, no.' Until the third trimester, yes 'Anti-choice. Funny. I am anti-choice I suppose. I don't think people should choose to murder, steal, rape, etc. So I'm anti-choice in a very limited sense.' Pro-choice doesn't mean every action should have a choice, it only refers to abortion. 'They could do that or get the perfectly legitimate non-abortive equivalent I have already proposed, where the child can be incubated independent of the mother.' Incubation is a simulation of the body keeping the baby alive, since a fetus is a woman's property until it can survive on it's own, a woman can choose between incubation of abortion. Please, vote Pro. In order the bring us a step closer to a Libertarian society, and to protect the freedom for people to have control over their own bodies, abortion must remain legal."	PRO	81
81	Sc42f2f40-A508239fe	Abortion Should Remain Legal	"""… an abortion could be performed for any reason, if the woman wants it. And even if it is made illegal for a woman to have the right to an abortion for birth control reasons, then the laws should be changed."" The laws could be changed, yes. But the jurisprudence that removed a number of state laws restricting it shouldn't be discarded. The right of the mother outweighs the rights of the fetus only so long as there is some risk to the mother in not denying the fetus those rights. Let me use an analogy, as I am fond of those: Let's say you have a pet cat. I take your cat and put it in one of two identical boxes. In the other I put an armed bomb. I leave a full container of water at your feet and hand you a box. I tell you that, if the box holds the bomb, it can be disarmed by holding it in the water for fifteen minutes. Of course, if it's the cat, the cat will drown. The box must be gently lowered into the water soon, or it will detonate. In this case, there is a high likelihood of harm to yourself, and a high likelihood of harm to your cat. You need to decide whether the potential that you are holding your cat outweighs the potential of harm to yourself. That is a personal choice, where ethical boundaries are blurred. It is a situation where choosing to dunk the box or not is basically up to you. Now, same scenario but one box is left empty. Once again, I leave the container of water at your feet. I tell you that one box is empty and the other holds your cat. How could you ethically argue for dunking the box? Just replace your cat with the concept of ‘human being' and the bomb with ‘harm' and you will have some idea of why abortion without any need is wrong. ""A fetus can have plenty of deformities, such as permanent mental or physical disabilities. Sure, some people with disabilities aren't all wallowing in misery, but that's not true for all handicapped people."" If a person so dislikes living, that person could end it, and may have a right to do so. One does not have the right to choose for others, however, whether or not their lives should be lived. You have successfully made an argument for the right to commit suicide. You have not made an argument for the right of one person to take a chance of killing another person when there is no need to take that chance. ""Even if we develop alternative treatments, there could still be reasons for abortion. Such as using embryonic stem cells from aborted fetuses - which have the potential to replicate themselves into any type of tissue - could be used for huge advances in medicine, and even save lives. Also, even if alternatives to abortion and other ways of getting embryonic stem cells are developed, then we could stop having abortions then."" Thank you for conceding this argument to me without my having to do it myself. See one way below: http://www.boston.com... ""Morning-after abortion pills don't work if the woman finds out she's pregnant later than a day after. I don't advocate abortion as the only means of birth control, but it should never not be an option."" http://www.webmd.com... Sex is not a surprise. Tell me a valid ethical reason for a woman not using any of the above options, knowing that she is having sex? ""How could you consider a fetus equal to a human being? I already stated how it is NOT a human. It is a potential human because it is only alive because of the mother's body, and is incapable of many human functions. It also does not have rights because it is part of another human's body. The woman should be in control of that fetus because it's part of her own body."" That is your definition. Some ‘vegetarians' eat fish because ‘they're not animals.' After all, they don't have fur. If it helps you sleep at night, fine. This not a valid argument, however, for all the reasons I set forth above … it's not up to me or you to decide if the fetus is a child; the state of the organism is indeterminate because of our definitions. The ethical thing to do is to mitigate the possibility of harm. If the mother would not be harmed by the fetus' development into a definite human being, the mother has no right to risk the possibility of harming even what COULD be a human being. It would be like dunking the empty box. ""Just because you're willing to, doesn't mean everyone is. Many people couldn't afford to pay for the millions of unplanned babies born if abortion was made illegal."" No, many people couldn't afford to pay for the (many more) millions of unplanned babies born if people didn't have contraceptives. Or so I can argue, as you've provided no statistics to review. This is, of course, beside the point; you asked for a personal opinion, and I granted it. ""Also, why should that woman have to carry that baby around for 9 months and endure labor and pregnancy, just to give that child away?"" So does she want it or not? If she's the type who would argue that labor pains alone mean that she earns the right to parent the child, I would argue that she should have the child TAKEN away. ""There are still going to be many planned children put up for adoption."" Then they weren't planned very well, were they? Perhaps there is a need for greater sexual responsibility. This would be something I agree with. ""Seriously, what's your problem? You value embryos over a grown person's control over their own life?"" Awesome ad hominem/straw man attack you've presented. No, I value mitigating harm. I can not, and do not, define whether or not a fetus is a human. I do recognize that a fetus MAY be a human. If the fetus MAY be a human, and it has not and will not predictably cause harm to a person, then regardless of its origin I do not see a valid reason for taking its life. Because it MAY be murder, and I would rather not take that chance needlessly. ""You're okay with women getting raped and having to be pregnant and care for a kid, just because you don't agree with the decisions they make over their own bodies?"" [sarcasm] Oh, yes, clearly I am in love with rape. [/end sarcasm] No. Women have a variety of options at their disposal now, but hopefully will have an even greater variety at their disposal in the future, such that abortion will seem wrong even in these situations. If someone murdered your sibling, would you go ahead and kill the murderer's kid? I hope not. The burden for the recompense of a vile crime of the progenitor should not be transferred to its progeny. ""What don't you understand about us not having those advances yet?"" Not a thing. What do you not understand about how these advances invalidate your resolution? ""That's not completely true, actually a lot of actions in humans have some hereditary factor in them."" Yes, it's just that, a factor. A chance. It is not a guarantee of anything. It probably isn't even a very high probability really. The possibility of the good that may come of the birth outweighs the loss of that possibility in abortion: http://www.righttoliferoch.org... ""... it's the woman's choice whether she wants the kid or not."" Not indefinitely, no. ""You still don't understand that we don't have all the advances in birth control that we'd like to have. Currently, abortion is the only type of birth control necessary in a lot of situations."" See above. ""Even if anti-choice people make abortion illegal, that won't stop abortion."" Anti-choice. Funny. I am anti-choice I suppose. I don't think people should choose to murder, steal, rape, etc. So I'm anti-choice in a very limited sense. ""Plenty of women will get back-alley abortions ..."" They could do that or get the perfectly legitimate non-abortive equivalent I have already proposed, where the child can be incubated independent of the mother."	CON	82
82	S3750ddab-A1380b5ed	I should be a Sikh	"""IDOLATRY: Idol worshipers generally have no share in the world to come, but there are exceptions; those being a tinok shenishba, as I explained above, in the case of the brainwashed Hindus."" The way you phrased it and used the term ""Idol worshiper,"" made it sound like you were refering to people of other religions. SOURCES: - As for a gentile who abides to the Seven Laws, see Maimonides' Mishneh Torah; Hilchot Teshuvah 3:5 ""The righteous of the non-Jews also have a portion in the World to Come"" There is an ancient tradition that three kings and four commoners have no share in the World to Come, which is recorded in the Tract of Sanhedrin's Chapter of Chelek. The commoners are: Balaam, Doeg, Ahitophel, and Gehazi. The kings are: Jeroboam, Ahab and Manasseh. Notice the first one, Balaam. Balaam is said to have no share in the world to come. Balaam was a gentile. Thus, we can conclude that gentiles do have a share in the world to come, as evidenced by Balaam being the exception."" I know that, we have no problem here. ""- As for people being judged differently based upon the environment in which they are raised, this is simple common knowledge. I don't think a source is required, but if you will be stubborn, see Tinok Shenishba."" I never contested this. ""- As for the reincarnation, that's actually a deep thing. It's all recorded in Rabbi Isaac Luria's Shaar Hagilgulim (lit. gateway to reincarnations)"" I don't know how this came up, but now that you mention it, this is another thing that the Sikhs have in common with the Jews, if you live your life right, you go to heaven, if you don't, you get reincarnated until you get it right. ""- As for the Jewish afterlife being greater than that of the gentiles, see the famous Mishnah in Avot 4:17, ""And one hour of pleasure in the world to come is better than all the time in this world."" OK, thank you! ""SIKHISM: They worship a different god then. Hashem never said that we should be vegetarians and wear turbans. Completely different god. For the gentiles, perhaps it's okay, but certainly not for a Jew."" The Guru Granth never ""orders"" it, it just recommends it, just like the Nazarene vow is never ""ordered"" it is just recommended. And this is actually very similar, no meat, don't cut your hair, plus, the Torah does not say you should wear a turban, it says you should cover your hair, just like the Guru Granth says to cover your hair, it's just that by tradition, Sikhs chose to do this via Turban, whereas Jews chose to do this via- I can never remember the word for it, those ""Jew-cap"" thingy's. ""TEFILLIN: Why's it hard? Just by a pair online."" I know, I was just wondering what it is, and where the tradition came from."	PRO	83
83	Scce0604d-A55f8362e	Every adult in first world countries should be vegan.	"Round 3 my opponent's arguments will be in bold and italics and mine in plain text. ""I will go line by line for the rebuttal, then extend my first argument First my opponent gives a definition of absolutism but fails to explain why it is best for this round. Where's your warrant?"" Mary I already explained that animal cruelty is never justified. That is my warrant. ""Then my opponents assumes I think the meat industry would be eliminated overnight, however my supporting evidence is specific to things like GDP and why the vegetarian and vegan industry would NOT be able to replace it. You have to disprove this warrant in order to gain ground because if there is no other SUSTAINABLE alternative to food production in the status quo, adopting radical veganism does more harm than good. In counter to environmental claims, here is a good article about the misconceptions of meat industry environmental harms, and justification to its use in diets. "" Mary This is a little confusing, you seem to imply that veganism is not environmentally sustainable in addition to the economic penalty. First, justice is more important than economy. As I've stated before its unjust to slaughter animals. Mainly because its unnecessary. I've read your link about Fairlie and it confirms the current agribusiness is inefficient. Then, goes on to talk about pigs eating parts of grains that would be composted. This is unconvincing, first composting replenishes the soil. It is not like the part of the grain that isn't used just disappears. Second, there's no figures to compare from credible sources. ""Then my opponent claims that meat would be outlawed when vegans were the majority. This is incorrect for several reasons. First, there are many real world examples of bad things that are in the minority and still legal such as cigarettes, dog meat, and duck meat. According to an article published in the last two years ( http://inhabitat.com...... ) it is still legal in 6 states to eat cat and dog meat, meaning a federal ban of meat coming from cows and chickens is highly unlikely even in a pre dominantly vegan world."" Mary Let's not get too sidetracked. We can speculate all we want about the future, but I don't think this is getting us anywhere. ""Then my opponent makes to claims 1) that my impact and warrant don't match. This is not true, the reason humanity could not survive a vegan diet in this example had nothing to do with the health debate but the sustainability debate which I can't seem to get my opponent to answer directly. This article is excellent on this debate (https://gpfarmblog.wordpress.com...... ) and explains why things like the amount of healthy land able to be used is not sufficient and will not become sufficient, and all plant diet would use too much water to sustain the earth and itself, and many plants would not survive growing in industrial conditions which are the only conditions that would be able to produce enough in the first place. A worldwide vegan diet is unsustainable, end of story."" Mary Well first and foremost, this debate is about 1st world countries adults. Which is not a worldwide vegan diet. I didn't read though your entire warrant, but the only argument with teeth that I saw made was high quality crop growing land versus lesser quality livestock. The problem of course is a lot of animals are factory farmed, and being fed grain from high quality crop growing land. ""Then my opponent says that the developing countries impact doesn't make sense and that I am agreeing the world should become vegan. These are both incorrect. First, the exclusion of second and third world countries from the pro contention means the pro can never solve which, on the most fundamental level possible, is the point I was trying to make. Second, I am saying that the entire world WOULD HAVE TO become vegan to make any real change, but not that it SHOULD. That is why I am Con in this debate."" Mary Second and third world countries are not within the scope of this debate. I've seen this type of argument made before, that the difference would be negligible. Yet, look at the numbers by simply getting rid of factory farmed beef we can save a lot of water and free up a lot of crop land. Every drop of water counts. ""Then my opponent says their authors are credible and mine would have to be vegan to be credible. First of all your authors are not credible. You applied their philosophy to prove people should be vegan, but they themselves weren't meaning obviously they did not feel the need to apply there own philosophy in the way you are doing as the pro. Second, my authors would actually have to be meat eaters to be credible because a) most of them are writing from medical and moral standpoints and b) they must practice what they preach to be credible."" Mary I think regardless of the person's diet what really matter is are they correct? Justice is always important. Sure MLK was not vegan, but I think its wrong to confine his words just to the issue he was addressing. I think Dawkins is correct that humans have drawn an arbitrary line between animals and humans. What Dawkins eats is irrelevant to the correctness of the previous statement. ""Finally my opponent addresses humane washing. I'd like to start off answering this by offering this article : https://medium.com...... (morality debate) . It gives empirical evidence as to how a vegan world would actually be a world more cruel to animals. The warrants are very long and I don't have enough characters to elaborate on them. I would also like to point out that my opponent has turned an argument they made on their own case into a reason to vote against them and that is this: logically, if meat is outlawed like a drug, prostitution, etc people would react violently and meat eating would become a violent merciless trade. Ever heard the expression ""laws are meant to be broken"" ?"" Mary Sadly, there is some logic to your statements about outlawing meat production. Just as many nations have lost the war on drugs, that making animals illegal to slaughter would create a black market. Yet, this fails to address humane washing. In fact, the words ""humane washing"" is not within the article. This is important, because there is virtually no difference between conventional and cage-free eggs. ""Extend all my health claims in round 1 including the counter claim I made at the very end. here are a couple of credible articles to contribute to the health debate: http://www.thehealthyhomeeconomist.com...... http://articles.mercola.com...... (health factor)"" Mary Mercola is renowned or being a quack. As for the healthyhomeeconomist it mentions that there is only 150 or so vegetables and plants. So what? How is that relevant? More importantly there is only like 5 animals we eat, and there is plenty of heirloom vegetables. Let's see chicken, pig, cow, turkey, and salmon. Far less variety in the animals we eat than 150. ""Next extend my ethics argument. My opponent has failed to disprove that ethics are solely a human concept . This is critical for the debate because applying justice to animals serves no purpose if animals themselves cannot recognize it as justice. It is simply self serving for the pro."" Mary Link 5 in previous round is Mercola the Quack. See my link 6 slaughtering the amazon. The mentally challenged and comatose patients don't understand justice, yet you can't just slaughter one for meat. They have rights too. The idea that the animal must recognize justice seems arbitrary. ""Next extend my economy argument at the top of my con case. Any risk of damaging the meat industry's GDP, even with gradual transition, means you vote neg because it is still the biggest impact in this round."" Mary Justice trumps economy, there is no way around this. People were upset about abolishing slavery of humans. Somehow we survived the economic downfall. Thanks for debate, out of characters. http://www.quackwatch.com..."	PRO	84
84	Sefcd9117-A42fe4ea6	Animals should be used for Medical Research	"Animals do not have the same rights as humans do, therefore it is acceptable to experiment on them. If we granted animals rights, all humans would have to become vegetarians and hunting would be outlawed. While animal testing is not pretty, a 2011 poll of nearly 1,000 biomedical scientists conducted by the science journal Nature found that more than 90% ""agreed that the use of animals in research is essential."" A small amount of animals are used for progression in advancing medical technology when you consider that just the U.S. alone consumes 9 billion chickens a year, while only 26 million animals are used for animal research. Wouldn't it be considered a waste if we didn't use animals for research to help progress in Medical Technology?"	PRO	85
85	S1900cfd9-Aa5bc74a5	Animal Abuse should be stopped	""" We have the choice of eating either meat or vegetable. Tigers don't have a choice but to eat meat because they are carnivores. "" Some People choose to become Vegetarians because Humans have the Higher Order Thinking Processes to make that decision for themselves. However, my opponent has shown no evidence that Animals possess the Higher Order Thinking Ability. So if Animals do not have the Ability to decide for themselves........ They therefore inferior to Humans, so they are considered Private Property. We can make the choice.......Animals can not. Another Example is this. Humans are the only Species on this Earth that can reason about their conceptions of right and wrong""that""s how we get the branch of philosophy called ethics. "" BUT animals are not objects. You can abuse or damage an object that is your's and nobody would complain. But is it morally correct to hurt animals? "" My opponent has not shown why Animals are not Objects and are Equal to Humans. These are vauge questions the opponent has thrown. My opponent has not rebutted my points I made up above. However, What I presented up above clrealy shows that Animals are not equal to Humans and therefore are not entitled to the Same Rights we have. Animals do not reason for themselves, Animals do not think of the Consequences that their Action just produced, Animals have not have made the leap from vocabulary to the sort of grammar and syntax that a small child intuitively knows and uses. Now there are some Animals such as the Dolphin who have displayed a great deal of intelligiance but Dolphins have not used that in a way that allows them to rebel............... So If humans didn't decide what was right or wrong, then nothing else would; that's what entitles humans to decide what's right and wrong so Animals can not decide for themselves what is wrong..... in fact, this entire debate rests on my opponent's assertion.....My opponent spoke for Animals, as a Human made the decision, not the animal. My opponent labled the Animals as Innocent. They did not labled themselves. "" I'd say we draw the line at stopping owners abusing their own pets. We kill animals because it servers some kind of advantage to us. We kill animals to eat, maybe trying to stop disease going around. "" How would my opponent go about doing this ? I have heard no concrete solutions to the Problem. If we were to pass a law, or something like that, than it would be infringing on OUR personal Liberty................."	CON	86
86	S3750ddab-Afb55680a	I should be a Sikh	"""LIES!: I never said that non-Jews go to Hell. You seem to be putting words in my mouth. Show me where I ever said that; precisely the opposite in the religion of the Jews. In Judaism, anyone can merit eternal reward, even gentiles. However, they have to abide to the Seven Noahide Laws. There are many more Noahide Laws, but the MAIN ones consist of seven. They are: LAWS!: 1. Do not worship an idol 2. Do not curse G-d 3. Do not kill 4. Do not commit sex crimes (adultery, homosexuality, pedophilia, incest, and bestiality) 5. Do not steal (this includes kidnapping and rape, for when you kidnap a person, you are ""stealing him"") 6. Do not eat from a living animal (if you tear an limb from an animal which is alive, that piece of meat is impure forever and can never be consumed. If you want to eat from an animal; that is permitted, but before you take anything from it, it must be DEAD.) 7. Establish court systems to enforce law, justice, and order. Not necessarily only the laws mentioned above, but everything which is necessary to keep a civil environment."" Firstly I meant that you thought that non- Jews as in people not in according with Judaism are going to hell, I meant Jews as in the religious group, not the ethnicity. It's right here: ""Well we believe that idolitors have a special place in hell, which, unfortunately, means you are included."" That's a way to get people to convert! ""ADDITIONAL INFO: If a gentile lives his life abiding to this code, he merits a share in the world to come. If he dies without ever having accepted this law upon himself, then he is judged. Each man is judged differently, according to how he was brought up. For example, a Hindu who was brainwashed to believe in his idols will not receive the same punishment as someone from a Noahide family who decided to worship idols. Instead, he might come back in a reincarnation to fix his crime, and then he can ascend to Heaven. This is why very often you might see a man who dies at thirty - because he completed his purpose in life and it is time for him to move on. While it is true that gentiles do receive an afterlife, it is not comparable in the slightest to the Jewish afterlife, which is MUCH MUCH MUCH MUCH MUCH (much x 10000) greater. However, it is very unrecommended for a gentile to convert. The reason for this is because the Jews have 613 laws, which are obviously much more burdensome (that is why they reeceive greater reward). G-d judges Jews harsher than he judges gentiles, because he expects more from them. If you wish to stay on the safe side, it's better to remain a gentile. However, if you are 100% sure beyond all doubt that you'll be able to live a kosher Jewish life, then go ahead and convert; for the sake of your reward."" I wonder where these specifics are mentioned in the Torah. ""SIKHISM: It is forbidden for you personally to become a Sikh because in Sikhism you will obviously not be living a holy Jewish life wearing tefillin, abstaining from illicit relations, keeping Shabbat, kosher, etc. As for a gentile becoming a Sikh; I am unsure whether it is permissible. Technically, they do worship one god. However, I have not done the research as to what they believe this god of theirs is. Therefore, I wouldn't take any risks. It could be a corporeal deity like Zeus (which is complete idolatry, even if you dont build any statues/idols). I can understand why you want to become a Sikh instead of being a Jew, while the evidence is in your face that the Jews are the only ones who adhere to the true religion. The reason is simple: Because you feel unable to follow the laws of the Torah. I assure you that it isn't as hard as you think. Shabbat - if you do it right, it can be paradise. No phone calls, no school, no work, no electronics. We rest, family gathers together, we eat delicious meals, we sing beautiful melodies, we learn Torah, we engage in halachic discussions, etc etc etc. The whole thing feels like Heaven on Earth, IF YOU DO IT RIGHT! Tefillin is not that hard either. I mean, come on. How hard is it to wake up early in the morning, wash netilat yadayim, put on tefillin, say Shema Yisrael, and take them off?! Two minutes! What's the big deal? Then you can go back to sleep!"" Sikhism does NOT have a corporal deity! You may not be researched into it much, but I am, it has so many similarities and NO differences! All laws are the same, they re vegetarians so kosher is no problem, illicit sexual activity is banned, covering your head, lots of stuff! Teflon and Shabbat, they don't have that, I do't think, but here is a site to show you what Sikhism is: http://www.realsikhism.com... Here is verses that are virtually identical: Sikhism Scripture: ""There is only the One Supreme Lord; there is no other at all. Spirit, soul and body, all belong to Him; whatever pleases His Will, comes to pass."" (Guru Granth Sahib Ji, 45). Sikhism Scripture: Piece 1: ""There is only the One Supreme Lord; there is no other at all."" 2 Samuel 7:22: ""Wherefore thou art great, O LORD God; for there is none like thee, neither is there any God beside thee, according to all that we have heard with our ears."" Sikhism Scripture: Piece 2: ""Spirit, soul and body, all belong to Him;"" Ezekiel 18:4: ""Behold, all souls are mine; as the soul of the father, so also the soul of the son is mine: the soul that sins, it shall die."" Sikhism Scripture: Piece 3: ""Whatever pleases His Will comes to pass."" Job 42:2: ""I know that you can do all things, and that no purpose of yours can be thwarted."" Sikhism Scripture: ""He is neither born and nor does He die."" (Guru Granth Sahib Ji, 1). Sikhism Scripture: ""Since You are my Lord and Master, what is there for me to fear? Who else should I praise besides You? You are the One and only, and because of You all things exist; there is nothing at all for me without You. O Father, I have seen that this world is poison. Save me O Lord of the Universe! Your Name is my only support. You know completely the condition of my mind; who else could I go to explain it? Without the Naam, the Name of the Lord, the whole world has gone crazy; One finds peace by receiving Naam. What shall I say? Unto whom shall I speak? Whatever I have to say, I say it to God. Everything which exists was created by You. You are my hope, forever and ever. If you bestow greatness, then it is Your greatness; here and hereafter, I meditate on You. God of Nanak is forever the Provider of peace; Your Name is my only strength"" (Guru Granth Sahib Ji, 382). Biblical Scripture: Psalms 104:32-34 ""He looks at the earth, and it trembles; He touches the mountains, and they smoke. I will sing to the LORD as long as I live; I will sing praise to my God while I have my being. Let my meditation be pleasing to Him; As for me, I shall be glad in the LORD."""" Psalm 9:1 ""Those who know your name trust in you, for you, LORD, have never forsaken those who seek you."" Psalms 118:6 ""The LORD is for me; I will not fear; What can man do to me?"" Psalm 103:13-14 ""Just as a father has compassion on his children, So the LORD has compassion on those who fear Him. For He Himself knows our frame; He is mindful that we are but dust."" Psalms 18:2: ""The LORD is my rock, and my fortress, and my deliverer; my God, my strength, in whom I will trust; my buckler, and the horn of my salvation, and my high tower."" Also, Teflon is hard to get, I'm not even sure what it is! A metal, a cloth, a mineral?"	PRO	87
87	S95769c7a-Ad2874f68	Vegetarians and vegans should at least let their kids try meat out once.	Sorry, the link I meant to post for the second link was this: http://sciencenordic.com... The law is not only for court cases. Court cases occur when the law applying to an individual is suspected as having been disobeyed where it should have been obeyed. They must obey the law at all times outside of the court room and the law applies throughout an entire action at all times. It has no time that it switches on or off. The consent of children is nonexistent, according to the law, both inside and outside of a courtroom. I am still at a loss as to why on Earth you are asking a vegan to break their entire code of ethics to curse their child's soul when they can avoid doing so and be happier, as can the child. You again lie that vegetarians would get sick form eating meat. This is a lie. I am telling you to your face that you are absolutely lying and that your own source contradicts you and you continue to lie. This is severely poor conduct on your part. I have no idea as to why you would condone bullying a vegetarian to make them eat meat as remotely acceptable. I , additionally, do not understand why this means the parents should allow their kid to eat meat once in their life or how there is any relation between the two. You said, in round one, that children can force the child to eat meat. You now are retracting that statement and conceding a major point in your debate. I do not believe in karma, nor do I understand how it works but many vegetarians are associated with religions that do. http://www.pages.drexel.edu... Although Hindus prefer to call it Dharma, as opposed to Karma, the concept is extremely similar in regards to meat-eating. I conclude that there is absolutely no grounds on which parents should allow their child to eat meat once.	CON	88
88	S95769c7a-A1e2dc238	Vegetarians and vegans should at least let their kids try meat out once.	"My opponent concedes that the law ignores a kid's/child's ability to give consent until they reach the age of majority. Thus to bring consent up with a child/kid is futile. How would cooking meat make your heat source corrupt any more than it would make the kitchen in the restaurant corrupt for it to cook that meal for you? I don't care if you even go to 5-star restaurant, you have no idea how badly the animal you're getting was treated when it was alive and the restaurant would most likely sugarcoat it if you happened to ask them. Restaurants are too profit-oriented to care about organic produce and if you did find a farm that sold organic meat, there is still the issue of violating your vegetarian, or vegan, code to begin with. You say it doesn't harm or ruin their life forever but if you believe in karma, it can make them severely in karmic debt or if you think your child will grow up to become vegan or vegetarian they'll have a burden of guilt for having eaten that meat that will haunt them for the rest of their lives as they can't even blame the parents for making them do it, they would blame themselves for their whole life for eating it and hate themselves. There is absolutely nowhere in the law that states that kids have the right to eat meat if their parents are vegetarian or vegan. firstly you said ""eating meat again"" what did you mean by ""again""? That would completely destroy your case. Your own source states ""Not all vegetarians-turned-omnivores feel sick after their first meal back, because we don""t all have the same diets and therefore don""t digest everything the same way and with the same results."" [http://www.divinecaroline.com...] They then mention that it's only those who begin at fast food outlets who begin the sickness initiation. Thus, if the vegetarian has a balanced diet, according to your own source, they will not suffer form any ailments. This, much more scientifically verifiable, source phttp://sciencenordic.com...] states that it is only going to make them will if they just have a huge T-bone steak for dinner without any other foods to supplement it. That would make anyone sick. point is invalid and actually false. The eating of meat doe snot make a vegetarian sick, it's merely how balanced a diet they have when they begin. Some vegetarians begin binge meat-eating and your own sources say that this is the only thing that makes them sick. On top of that letting the kid eat meat only once int heir childhood will not make them any more capable of digesting meat at a later stage because their stomach would have long 'forgotten' it. I don't care how hard it is to discipline bullies. You are going to discipline them because letting a vegetarian get punished for their way of life by bullying is not acceptable in the slightest. Actually, forcing a child to eat meat against their will is called child abuse. If other children do it, it's called non-sexual molestation because they touched the child's body, especially the mouth, in a way that traumatizes them. In worst-case scenarios it's referred to as blackmail."	CON	89
89	S1900cfd9-Aebbcc7f2	Animal Abuse should be stopped	https://pethelpful.com... My first reason is that they have feeling, just like us. How would you feel if someone beat and kick you? I would feel horrible. Animals should be respected just like how you respect other people. Do you just go and abuse other people? No, you don't. (Unless you are some kind of drugged or crazy person.) I also disagree hitting dogs when the did someting wrong. (Like chewing furniture.) Is you scold (In an angry voice but not yelling) them, they completely understand!	PRO	90
90	Sedd9358d-A6bbe06dc	Meat production should be significantly reduced	Once again, thank you Lexicaholic My opponent contends that meat consumption, not production, should be reduced. He is misunderstanding something however. If meat consumption was significantly reduced, the laws of capitalism would require production to fall also. No company is going to keep making the same amount of meat if their customers are now spending half as much money and there are half as many of them. Therefore, a drop in consumption would result in a drop in production, therefore supporting my resolution. To defend my points on the nutritive value of meat and the inefficiencies of its production I will say this. When we have millions and millions of people starving to death every year and the only thing we had to do to stop it was significantly reduce our meat consumption and transport all the grain that would have otherwise been wasted on meat production over to those people, then that is reason enough to significantly reduce meat production. Then my opponent says that if production was reduced but consumption wasn't reduced there would be problems. This is an incoherent statement. Production can't reduce below the rate of previous consumption while consumption stays the same. That's like saying a person who usually eats 3 eggs a day suddenly finds out there are no eggs left in the world, but he somehow still eats 3 eggs. I agree that a decrease in production would increase DEMAND. This is where you must decide what is worse, millions of starving and dying people, or high meat prices and some people out of jobs. I think my opponent is mistaking a reduced amount of meat with no meat at all. I agree, we need some meat to get our daily amounts of key nutrients that meat provides. However, most middle class Americans get more than enough of these nutrients and could survive with a drop in meat consumption. Poor people already can't afford meat such as steak so it won't affect them. Vegetarians manage to get all their nutrients through alternative routes such as peanut butter etc. We can manage, plus we will still have some meat, just not as much. Now I must point out that my opponent has offered almost no argument against the environmental detriments of meat production. He has simply suggested we need better business practices. What business practice would get rid of all the CO2 and methane cows and other ranch animals make each year. Large-scale Filters are impractical. Therefore, my point stands un-refuted.	PRO	91
91	S3471caff-A1d245ff0	Meat, dairy, and eggs should be banned worldwide.	"So hello once again, dear audience, honorable judges, respected opponent. Once again, I am Forever 23 and I am bringing forth the premise which is that meat, dairy and cheese should not be banned worldwide. So let me start with refuting my opponents point on the gaining to much weight. First, let me repeat the argument that if you eat less of something, you will gain less weight. This is not calories gained, calories lost. This is eat less calories. Their refutation was completely irrelevant. Now I would just like to point out the celery argument. We NEED calories to survive. Eating 0 calories a day is not a healthy option. To add a little ""spice"" to my argumentation: It would be impossible to gain the required 2000 calories a day without meat. 100 grams of peas has only 81 calories. Meat, provides a nice amount- 213. Undernourishment can cause some very significant problems: Thank you http://www.livestrong.com..., Heart Problems When someone restricts their caloric intake for an extended period of time, malnutrition can occur. People who have an eating disorder, such as anorexia nervosa or bulimia nervosa, are at risk for becoming malnourished. People who severely restrict their calories have slower metabolisms because their body goes into starvation mode and slows the body's functions to conserve energy. Frances Sizer and Eli Whitney write in ""Nutrition and Concepts and Controversies"" that people who are malnourished, the heart beats irregular or too quickly, the heart muscles can become thin and weak and the chambers of the heart decrease in size. As a result of malnutrition, heart attacks can occur. Digestive Problems When a person does not eat enough calories, the digestive tract can slow down to conserve energy. The digestive tract is responsible for breaking down food and drinks to the simplest form so that the body can use the nutrients to function. When a person isn't consuming enough calories, the stomach empties slower and the lining of the intestinal tract can shrink. When a person does eat, the digestive tract has been damaged so severely that it cannot properly digest food. The pancreas produces digestive enzymes more slowly and the person may experience diarrhea. Diarrhea only makes the problem worse by dehydrating the person and depleting essential vitamins and nutrients. Nutrient Deficiencies People who are restricting calories can develop nutrient deficiencies. Several deficiencies -- including iron, folate and vitamin B-12 deficiencies -- cause anemia, a disease that affects red blood cells. These cells are responsible for carrying oxygen to the organs and tissues of the body. An anemia associated with nutritional deficiencies can cause fatigue, shortness of breath, pale skin, irregular or fast heartbeat, dizziness, cognitive problems, cold hands and feet and headache. At first people who are anemic may not have any signs or symptoms, but as the condition goes untreated, signs and symptoms worsen and become noticeable. Nutritional deficiencies can also cause a range of other symptoms, including skin lesions, a lack of energy and diminished cognitive functioning. Unhealthy Weight Loss If you're restricting calories with the goal of losing weight, consuming far too few calories might sabotage your weight loss before it starts. Not only is severely restricting calories not sustainable -- you're bound to fall off the wagon and return to your old eating habits -- but it also causes your body to destroy muscle tissue. You should not lose more than two pounds a week during safe weight loss, explains West Virginia University. If you lose more than that, you're consuming too few calories. They have also stated that making meat is unhealthier for the environment. However, I would like to point out somethings that the prop should probably be worried with- too much maneur. Farms are dealing with this problem very well. They are packing maneur into large, cement containers which make sure that none of it gets into lakes. That is the solution. Now, onto their problem of pollution. In order to solve pollution, we could perhaps find ways to solve this problem. Getting rid of the problem is not right. Lets face the situation head- on. Other than grain production, lets focus on production of grasses for humans. http://www.toxicsaction.org..., When Rachel Carson wrote Silent Spring in 1962, she raised public awareness about the effects of pesticide use on our health and our environment. However, almost forty years after Carson drew attention to the health and environmental impacts of DDT, use of equally hazardous pesticides has only increased. And all the time there is more evidence surfacing that human exposure to pesticides is linked to health problems. For example, in May 2010, scientists from the University of Montreal and Harvard University released a study that found that exposure to pesticide residues on vegetables and fruit may double a child’s risk of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), a condition that can cause inattention, hyperactivity, and impulsivity in children. Pesticides are not used so often on animal grain. Animals need food from a lower kind of standard and less pesticides are used. Next they mentioned how it is immoral and wrong. They went on about saving animal lives. But really, lets be honest, pro isn't focusing on human wellbeing. Humans need the animal industry. Not because of ""the wallet"", but because they need the animals industry to survive. Think jobs. Think how many hard working farmers will loose their job because of dairy, meat and eggs being banned. What pro wants is poverty. A vegetable only land is a dystopia. It will take good health and jobs from millions. Later on, they spoke about how there was land. But my argument had nothing to do with land. My argument was about the true roots of hunger. Which was poverty. There will never be FOOD FOR FREE. In order, to get food, you need money, And while no one has money, no one will have food. Vegetables only will not be the eradication of poverty. They refuted my right to body point by saying that the right to body applies only to people as long as their right to body does not harm anyone. There is a difference between drunk driving and this. Eating meat, dairy and eggs is not a detriment to others and to you. Drunk driving on the other hand, is. To quickly restate my own points. 1. Meat, eggs and dairy are required to maintain a healthy diet. 2. Most of the population consumes these products. 3. This plan is not feasible. 4. Right to body. 5. Will take jobs of millions. Now, I would like to point out the health benefits of eggs. http://www.bbcgoodfood.com..., Eggs are a very good source of inexpensive, high quality protein. More than half the protein of an egg is found in the egg white along with vitamin B2 and lower amounts of fat and cholesterol than the yolk. The whites are rich sources of selenium, vitamin D, B6, B12 and minerals such as zinc, iron and copper. Egg yolks contain more calories and fat. They are the source of cholesterol, fat soluble vitamins A, D, E and K and lecithin - the compound that enables emulsification in recipes such as hollandaise or mayonnaise. Some brands of egg now contain omega-3 fatty acids, depending on what the chickens have been fed (always check the box). Eggs are regarded a 'complete' source of protein as they contain all eight essential amino acids; the ones we cannot synthesise in our bodies and must obtain from our diet. For years eggs have been considered more of a health risk than a healthy food. Since they are high in cholesterol, it was recommended that people with high cholesterol levels avoid eggs. But it turns out the cholesterol content for which they have been vilified is much lower than it was 10 years ago. This reduction has been attributed to the changes in hen feed since the BSE crisis in the 1990s. British research shows that a medium egg contains about 100mg of cholesterol, a third of the 300mg recommended daily limit. Also it is saturated fat in the diet, not dietary cholesterol that influences blood cholesterol levels the most."	CON	92
92	S8aed976f-A6bc9256a	Vegetarianism: we should stop eating other animals.	"First I would like to thank my opponent for participation, if she wishes to, in this debate. The type of vegetarian that we are debating about is someone who is lacto-vegetarian that means they eat dairy products; but no eggs or meat. There are many reasons for being vegetarian and not only because you feel that have had the animals deserved a better life. There are health benefits from being vegetarian as well as solving many world food shortages. Also becoming vegetarian would help the world as well as you, like global warming could e reduced (assuming this is an accepted theory), and if everyone became vegetarian there would be better water supplies throughout the world, being vegetarian can also save you money. Being vegetarian is healthy, Vegetarians are usually lean and strong, because knowing that they cannot eat some things, the watch their diet more than the average person does. Vegetarians rarely have vitamin deficiencies because the foods that they are leaving out don't have many vitamins to start with. Also within meat there are bad things such as fat and drugs that the animal has taken in. I an average stake contains 9.5 grams of fat [1], that is over half of your daily guidance, which clearly is a good reason for not eating too much meat to start with. On top of this the animals that you are eating as a non vegetarian are being filled with drugs and chemicals to make them grow faster, these when consumed in large amounts can make you feel ill and drowsy. There are many other illnesses that you can get from meat, like Osteoporosis, Kidney Stones and Gallstones, Diabetes, Multiple Sclerosis, Arthritis, Gum disease, and acne can be caused. This is all because of poor animal fodder. If you were under the impression that meat is good for you there is another problem that faces you which is an excess in protein. The average American eats 400% of the RDA for protein which can cause excess nitrogen in the blood that causes host of long-term health problems [2]. If you are a vegetarian and you don't eat meat, then you also save money, meat is more expensive than vegetables and other vegetarian foods. Also because you are healthy, for the reasons of being healthy see above, you don't have to spend as much money on healthcare as you otherwise would have had to. Reasons to become a vegetarian based on environmental factors is that the production of meat costs more fossil fuel emissions and other bad gasses then producing vegetables. We can also conserve water by eating more vegetables and less meat. ""It takes 3-15 times more water to produce animal protein as it does plant protein."" [2]. To help human food resources we can eat more grains. This is because for 100 acres of land we will produce enough beef for 20 people the same amount of land and we can feed 240 people. With the excess food we can feed a lot of starving people. [3] [1] http://www.weightlossresources.co.uk... [2] http://www.britishmeat.com... [3] http://www.flex.com..."	PRO	93
93	Sc42f2f40-A337bf9a2	Abortion Should Remain Legal	"""the prevention of harm to the woman is the only valid legal reason"" That is not true, an abortion could be performed for any reason, if the woman wants it. And even if it is made illegal for a woman to have the right to an abortion for birth control reasons, then the laws should be changed. This is a bill that will probably be signed to ensure the rights for women to get abortions. http://en.wikipedia.org... 'A fetus with deformities? Which deformities? What's a ""life of suffering? People with disabilities aren't all wallowing in misery.' A fetus can have plenty of deformities, such as permanent mental or physical disabilities. Sure, some people with disabilities aren't all wallowing in misery, but that's not true for all handicapped people. It should be the choice of the woman whether she wants to bring the baby out into the world to live a non-normal life, or not let that happen. 'I'm saying that when an abortion is no longer necessary, because of alternative treatments, there is no longer a compelling interest for abortions to be legal.' Even if we develop alternative treatments, there could still be reasons for abortion. Such as using embryonic stem cells from aborted fetuses - which have the potential to replicate themselves into any type of tissue - could be used for huge advances in medicine, and even save lives. Also, even if alternatives to abortion and other ways of getting embryonic stem cells are developed, then we could stop having abortions then. But right now we don't have those things now, so abortion has to remain legal for the time being. 'The point is that human life exists along a continuum, and along that continuum there exist stages where, as you said ""a fetus could be considered human."" I am not arguing that conception is such a stage, but I don't need to because the morning after pill fixes that problem without abortion.' Morning-after abortion pills don't work if the woman finds out she's pregnant later than a day after. I don't advocate abortion as the only means of birth control, but it should never not be an option. 'A fetus may, in fact, have rights, because it may be human, and not merely a potential human.' How could you consider a fetus equal to a human being? I already stated how it is NOT a human. It is a potential human because it is only alive because of the mother's body, and is incapable of many human functions. It also does not have rights because it is part of another human's body. The woman should be in control of that fetus because it's part of her own body. 'Sure. I like people more than things. But seriously, she could have the child adopted, or be required to seek potential adoptive parents before birth. There are certainly enough people who would like to have children.' Just because you're willing to, doesn't mean everyone is. Many people couldn't afford to pay for the millions of unplanned babies born if abortion was made illegal. Also, why should that woman have to carry that baby around for 9 months and endure labor and pregnancy, just to give that child away? There are still going to be many planned children put up for adoption. Also, would you really deny a rape victim from having an abortion? 'Yes. Potential should not be thwarted because of origin.' Seriously, what's your problem? You value embryos over a grown person's control over their own life? You're okay with women getting raped and having to be pregnant and care for a kid, just because you don't agree with the decisions they make over their own bodies? 'I am positing that a procedure may exist to remove the child safely from the mother and incubate it so that she can get on with her life. When this happens, labor pains can no longer be taken into account as an ethical concern.' What don't you understand about us not having those advances yet? 'The ""genes of a rapist"" argument is eugenics speak. Many children of rape are adopted and go on to live 'normal' lives. Rape is borne out of the effects of certain experiences on those organisms that develop as a consequence of their genes. ' That's not completely true, actually a lot of actions in humans have some hereditary factor in them. Even suicide is part hereditary. Sure, some kids born from a rape victim turn out okay, but it's the woman's choice whether she wants the kid or not. 'This is an argument for better birth control, not abortion.' You still don't understand that we don't have all the advances in birth control that we'd like to have. Currently, abortion is the only type of birth control necessary in a lot of situations. Even if anti-choice people make abortion illegal, that won't stop abortion. Plenty of women will get back-alley abortions which are much more dangerous than the regular abortions legal today."	PRO	94
94	S95769c7a-Ac5e61280	Vegetarians and vegans should at least let their kids try meat out once.	I shall do this in a (c)ontention and (r)ebuttal style against my opponent's R5. C: It's up to the parents. R: And so it should be. C: Obviously you are not going to let your kids have meat. R: This has nothing to do with my own beliefs. C: If a kid wants to have meat it is his/her right as an American to do so. R: No it isn't. There is absolutely nowhere in American law that says children must be permitted to have meat as and when they want it. C: What you are saying by forcing all vegetarians/vegans to continue to do so. R: That made absolutely no sense. C: If the world's food supply runs out and the easiest thing to eat is a pig, cow, turkey, etc. you are saying is you'd rather die than let it stay alive? R: You said it's the easiest option. If i were a vegetarian, or vegan, I wouldn't take this 'easier' option, I'd survive by tougher means. C: Man hunted and ate meat for centuries and they didnt owe and karma debt to anybody. R: Global warming. C: Meat is a natural thing. R: Especially when it comes from a human being. C: The fact that you dont want to eat it is fine by me. R: I love meat. C: The fact that that you are forcing your kid to eat none of it even if they want to is a form of torture. R: No it isn't, it's a form of self-discipline, which is a very important thing to learn in maturity. C: Seriously, if you put steak in front if me and I'd have to eat beans and stuff everyday because my parents told me to would be torture. R: We should have just broken your fingers one by one instead, I guess.	CON	95
95	S1900cfd9-Aadfa2983	Animal Abuse should be stopped	"""You can't convince a tiger not to hunt when it's hungry, not even if the potential prey would be someone's baby. This is because the tiger can't see it's *doing bad* by hunting your baby, so it cannot make a choice, between feeding its stomach or sparing the life of a baby. "" Yes, a tiger can't choose not to eat a baby because it's their natural instinct. But aren't humans the same? For an example, you could eat chicken, pork, beef, fish ..etc. They are all offsprings from another animal. You eat them because you are hungry. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ""On the other hand, obviously, if the tiger kills a baby, it is not guilty: the tiger simply cannot choose."" Most people wouldn't feel guilty of eating other animals. ""When you are hungry you eat"", this is a natural instinct of human too. There are some poeple who become vegetarian too. But this is because human are omnivores. We have the choice of eating either meat or vegetable. Tigers don't have a choice but to eat meat because they are carnivores. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ""However Humans have a right to respect other animals or to abuse them because it is their right to do what they want with their Private Property."" I understand what you are trying to imply here. Indeed, in law, animals you own are considered ""Private Property"". BUT animals are not objects. You can abuse or damage an object that is your's and nobody would complain. But is it morally correct to hurt animals? -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ""If we stop Animal Abuse, where do we draw the line ? Chickens have their heads cut off during Meat Processing, Dogs being tortured even though that is the Owner's Choice.........because Dogs are Private Property,......... "" I'd say we draw the line at stopping owners abusing their own pets. We kill animals because it servers some kind of advantage to us. We kill animals to eat, maybe trying to stop disease going around."	PRO	96
96	S932cc55a-A1a91b76e	Rachael Carson was an eco-terriorist who has killed millions of people so far	There is no reasoning with this person. Ad Hominem is my last resort to knock some sense into my opponent. My opponent is an anti-vaxxer. He/she thinks germ theory is a fraud, by Louis Pasteur. Everyone knows that anti-vaxxers are inferior and all sorts of other colorful names. I should win because my opponent is inferior. Seriously isn't there a Darwin award or something for removing yourself from the gene pool? Of course people want proof, here's the proof my opponent is an anti-vaxxer. http://www.debate.org... http://www.debate.org... http://www.debate.org... Not only that but my opponent is a fan of low-carb. Everyone knows low-carb people are sadistic and delusional. Thinking they are wolves or tigers. Sorry about the Ad Hominem but I can't think of any other avenue. Rachael Carson will be known by history as a villain like Jenny McCarthy. Sure there is a few bad reactions here and there to vaccines or DDT, but the good far outweighs the bad. Did you know that water is toxic in high enough quantities? The poison is in the dose. http://www.darwinawards.com... http://jennymccarthybodycount.com...	PRO	97
97	Saeeb3794-A17053d14	Animal Testing should be allowed	Nowadays, the topic of animal testing is often discussed. It is considered that animal testing is a major benefit and allows us, as human beings, to advance in our medical research. We should continue animal testing. We depend on these animals for our health. Animal testing allows us to advance our drugs. Would you rather sacrificing ten animals a day for ten million people any day or the other way around?	PRO	98
98	Saeeb3794-A4443c8e0	Animal Testing should be allowed	"Thank you, Pro. For your arguments. Now I will try best to counter it. "" A good deal of people would say that so many animals are being killed in animal research but it isn't realised that animals are used in the food industry as well."" Well, As my worthy opponent says that a good deal of animals are used in the food industry, Pro, fails to realise that food industry is a high breeding industry too and no harm to the subsistence of animals is done in this industry. Does it mean that people are killing plants ruthlessly and causing extinction of wheat and rice plants? No. That is called agriculture and rearing animals for commercial purposes is called animal husbandry.(1) (1)en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Animal_husbandryR06; "" If we stop animal testing the human race would wipe out; and because of this human beings wouldn't be able to keep control of the reproduction of animals, leading to many of them dying for their own record!"" And nothing will happen to the population of the animals? A common example of what animal testing leads to is the situation of the Tokay gecko.(2)(3) (2)http://www.dw.de... (3)www.tokaygeckos.org/tokay-gecko-fact-sheetR06; What happens is that when a species of animal is thought to have some medicinal cures, it is researched upon. slowly, the demand of this species grows and people come to know about it. Frequently, these species are found in areas which are full of poor people. Catching these animals and supplying them to buyers gives a lot of money. So, everyone follows the rule of catching these animals and selling them for money. This happens recklessly and the population of these animals go down in a constant rate leading to their extinction. Tokay Geckos are researched on to find an HIV cure. While Top scientists say that it is in vain. Many have taken this research as a hope to find a cure...some for the welfare...and some for the money. The greed to earn money is leading to the extinction of beautiful animals. Think about it. If Human beings have fundamental rights, should the animals also not have some basic rights? At Least the right to LIVE? Tiger was first hunted as a game, gradually the GOVT. took steps. Later, they were researched on. GOVT. scientist said that tiger doesn't contain any medicinal factors and research on them was banned but is the tiger safe today? Nope. People who believe that tiger can be used to cure cancer are still researching on them by illegal means. Poachers are still prevalent. Tiger reserves are proving to be useless. The count of tiger in the whole world is >3200!! In such situations, should animal testing be actually allowed?"	CON	99
99	Scce0604d-Ac4004ddd	Every adult in first world countries should be vegan.	"Con thesis: The pro thesis is absolutist and not every adult living in a first world country should be Vegan. There are five main points to my argument. Economy, Health/Survival, Developing Countries CON CASE- Economy- Claim: The meat industry is extremely valuable to the world's economy Warrant: (Using the United States as an example) ""In 2013, more than 482,100 workers were directly employed in the meat and poultry packing and processing industries, according to data from the North American Meat Institute (NAMI). Their combined salaries total more than $19 billion, it said. With suppliers and distributors included, that number climbs to 6.2 million jobs and generates $864.2 billion annually, or roughly 6 percent of the entire U.S. GDP, it said."" (1) Impact: Following the warrant, eliminating the meat industry is not economically viable and would result in severe economic consequences. Health/Survival- Claim: Humanity in present day could not survive a worldwide vegetarian/vegan diet Warrant: Our resources are not sustainable enough and would not be even without the meat industry's negative environmental effects. the notion that an ideal form of food production operating with a minimal environmental impact should exclude meat "" nothing less than enacting ""vegetarian imperative"" (Saxena 2011) on a global scale "" does not make sense. ""This is because both grasslands and croplands produce plenty of phytomass that is not digestible by humans and that would be, if not regularly harvested, simply wasted and left to decay. In addition, processing of crops to produce milled grains, plant oils and other widely consumed foodstuffs generates a large volume of by-products that make (as described in Chapter 4) perfect animal feeds. Rice milling strips typically 30% of the grain""s outermost layers, wheat milling takes away about 15%: what would we do with about 300 Mt of these grain milling residues, with roughly the same mass of protein-rich oil cakes left after extraction of oil (in most species accounts for only 20""25% of oilseed phytomass), and also with the by-products of ethanol (distillers grain) and dairy industries (whey), waste from fruit and vegetable canning (leaves, peels), and citrus rinds and pulp?"" (2) Impact: An unsustainable food/vegan farming system to replace the old one. No change in sustainability. Developing Countries- Claim: Developing Countries rates of meat consumption are rapidly rising Warrant: ""Developing countries have very diverse food consumption patterns and agricultural production systems. The proportion of meat in national diets varies from negligible in some countries in central Africa to 30-40% in some countries in Latin America and Mongolia. However, the demand for meat in developing countries is increasing rapidly (53%/year from 1982 to 1993), as the result of population growth and the trend for people to move to the cities. Growth rates in consumption are greatest in Asia, with China dominating the statistics, in view of the size of its population. Theoretically, livestock production can be increased to meet this demand, but the multiple roles of livestock in developing countries must be recognized if this is to be achieved in a sustainable manner. Resource-poor farmers who keep livestock may value more highly their contribution to livelihoods and to crop production, through provision of draught power and improvements in soil fertility through the recycling of manure, than the production of more meat. Recognition of the goals of the farmer and the wishes of the consumer regarding meat quality need to be reflected in the way in which opportunities for increasing meat production are identified and communicated to farmers. The impact of the global economy on cereal prices, for example, will also influence which interventions will be economically viable. Interpretation of information in an integral manner, using geographical information systems, mathematical models and/or simple spreadsheet models will be an important ingredient in turning scientific knowledge into increased meat production in developing countries."" (3) Impact: there are multiple warrants within this argument and therefore multiple impacts. The first is that developing countries have seen a major rise in meat production and will therefore offset benefits to eliminating meat industries in the united states. The second is that farmers in developing countries continue to produce more without regards to the environment and health, leaving countries that have eliminated the meat industry unable to help them for moral and political reasons. On the flip side, if they did help developing countries eliminate their meat industries, the global economy would be tanked (no warrant, see first claim). The third warrant is that the meat industries in these countries will continue to grow despite drawbacks, meaning developing countries then have a moral obligation to assist them in order to preserve their populations and the environment, which turns the pro impacts. REBUTTALS- Ethics- Rights are unique to human beings rights only have meaning within a moral community only human beings live in a moral community adult mammals don't understand or practice living according to a moral code the differences in the way human beings and adult mammals experience the world are morally relevant therefore rights is a uniquely human concept and only applies to human beings (4) AND No impact to ethics, it's mere philosophical speculation Arbitrary Lines- concede this claim, it has no link to the argument, neither King nor Dawkins practiced veganism and are not credible sources. The evidence was shifted to try to favor pro's argument and should therefore be dropped in the debate. Humane Washing- http://www.qmscotland.co.uk... This link gives multiple reasons as to why meat is good for humans, meaning that there is a reason behind killing animals (to eat) and is therefore not an ""unnecessary harm"" AND I question the logic of this argument on my opponent's part. If animals are not being treated inhumanely, the harms of factory farming go away and thus so do environmental impacts, and all this is because OF cage-free and similar methods, why get rid of them? Couldn't that model be used to then help developing countries to become more sustainable, and wouldn't that be better overall? This particular argument is meant as a challenge of logic rather than a direct rebuttal Environment- Counter Claim- Grazing is necessary to a sustainable ecosystem (5) AND cattle do not contribute greatly to greenhouse gases (5) AND optimal farming includes animals. This outweighs the impacts of the pro argument (5) (The quotes from source (5) are quite lengthy so i did not insert them verbatim) Health- Counter-Claim: Studies for the health setbacks of meat are inconclusive and contradicted by credible sources. In one cohort study, scientists studied 11,000 people, 57 percent of whom were omnivores (meat eaters) and the other 43 percent were vegetarians. Both groups were health conscious. Yet in this study, researchers found the overall death rates were cut in half for both health-conscious meat eaters and for vegetarians, as compared to the average person eating a western-style, processed food diet. The study concluded that for the vegetarians, there was no benefit found; and for the meat eaters, there was no increased risk for heart disease, cancer or death. (6) (1)http://www.nbcnews.com... (2) http://www.scientificamerican.com... (3) http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov... (4) http://www.bbc.co.uk... (5) http://articles.mercola.com... (6) http://drhyman.com..."	CON	100
100	S8287514f-A26931b24	animals should not be killed for any reason	Thank you Pro. I will now present the rebuttal for your argument. What is the definition of a Food Chain? Food Chain- A hierarchical series of organisms each dependent on the next as a source of food. As for humans, we are animals. We derived from the Homo-Sapien species that are classified as mammals. But enough with that argument. People have always eaten animal products. Why should we stop now? If you look throughout history at the human diet, it consists of a large amount of raw plant products, and some meat for important proteins. Not to dig too deeply into the science behind all this, but the easiest way to get all of your essential acids is by eating meat. Granted, you don’t need four steaks and a chicken breast a day, but having at least some meat on the table once a week is going to be healthier for you unless you are very carefully planning your amino acid intake. Humans didn’t evolve our incisors for chomping down on leaves, and we didn’t evolve our molars to try and rip the flesh off of a bone. Omnivorous diets are what we as a species are designed for. All health reasons aside though, it’s important socially that we don’t confuse the ideas of vegetarianism and animal activism. There are right ways to raise animals and there are efficient ways to raise animals. These two aren’t necessarily exclusive, but if you believe the megafarms, they’re doing what they have to do in order to “feed the world,” never mind that even here in the United States 14.5 percent of households go hungry or don’t know where their next meal is coming from. The largest reason for this isn’t the inability of farmers to produce enough food, it’s the extreme inequality in food distribution that mirrors the economic dispersion in this country. So for all the farms who raise animals that never see the light of day, where they interact almost exclusively with machines, the excuse of “feeding the world,” just isn’t going to cut it. The same goes for all the vegetarians out there who don’t eat meat to protest these conditions. It isn’t that hard anymore to find a semi-local farmer, no matter where you live. You can meet the farmers, talk with them, and find out exactly what kinds of living conditions their animals have. What you absolutely should not do is insist that everybody you meet share your feelings and moral position on the subject. Both sides of the proverbial electric fence have been guilty of this. Vegetarians and vegans are often seen as pushy, throwing their ideals at other people. This is very much the wrong thing to do. But this also applies to you, dear reader, if you are an omnivore who likes to “casually” suggest that any vegetarian is less of a person, or just following a trend, or “missing out,” or any number of things I hear on a fairly regular basis when a person finds out my eating preferences. Trophic levels” is a biology term used to describe different levels of a food chain with, for example, a blade of grass being the lowest trophic level, right up through the bugs that eat the grass, the birds that eat the bugs, and the foxes that eat the birds. At each level, a large amount of energy is lost due to the energy needed for those living things to survive, the heat they put out, and the fact that not every member of a trophic level is eaten for food. Actually, only ten percent of the energy that comes into a given trophic level goes up to the next higher level. So in the previous example, if we set the grass as receiving 100% energy from the sun, the bugs get 10%, the birds 1%, and the foxes .1% of the total energy that came in from the sun. This on its own looks like a pretty convincing ecological reason to become a vegetarian, but just imagine if everything did that. It simply isn’t possible to survive if every living thing is competing for the same resources. Yes, it is less efficient to eat a cow than it is to eat corn, but if we were competing with animals for all the plant-based resources available, we would soon push them right out of the food web entirely, destroying any benefit the species might have of not being eaten. Even the ideal 100 percent energy directly from the sun wouldn’t be a viable solution, because then we’d be in competition with the trees for sustenance, and would eventually end up wiping them out in order to secure more sun for ourselves. Still, that supermarket-packaged ground beef from cows who never see the light of day isn’t your most ethical food choice, or your healthiest. Truly free-range, grass-fed livestock are going to be much healthier and much better for you to consume, and they actually get to live decent lives before slaughter. And it isn’t impossible to raise your own animals, or hunt truly wild animals for food, and then you know exactly how the animal was treated, if it was killed with respect, and how you feel morally about eating it. Health Reasons Throughout evolution, humans and pre-humans have been eating meat. Our digestive systems are well equipped to make full use of the healthy fats, proteins and nutrients found in animal foods.The truth is that humans are omnivores, despite what some vegan proponents would have you believe. We function best eating BOTH animals and plants. Humans have much shorter digestive systems than herbivores and don’t have the specialized organs to digest cellulose, the main fiber in plants.Humans also have canines, with big brains, opposing thumbs and the ability to make tools to hunt. Meat was one of the reasons humans were able to evolve such large, elaborate brains. Some of the earliest evidence shows that our ancestors were eating meat as early as 1.5 million years ago. Sources www.webmd.com nutritiondata.self.com www.nutrition.gov (And my brain)	CON	101
101	S42c351d0-A6f589bfd	Children in the US should be exposed and encouraged to eat insects	"Definitions: Insect - a small animal that has six legs and a body formed of three parts and that may have wings. - Merriam-Webster Eat - to take in through the mouth as food : ingest, chew, and swallow in turn. - Merriam-Webster Exposed - not protected or covered. - Merriam-Webster Encourage - to make (someone) more likely to do something : to tell or advise (someone) to do something. - Merriam-Webster Child - A person not yet of age. - Merriam-Webster Stigma- A set of negative and often unfair beliefs that a society or group of people have about something. - Merriam-Webster US (Short for USA) - United States of America - Oxford Dictionaries Index: 1. Nutritional benefits. 2. Ecological benefits. 3. Conclusions 4. List of sources. Reasoning: Due to the increasing world population, food security is an obvious issue to keep humans alive and well. However, it has become apparent that industrialized countries have seen health issues related to food safety as well as the environmental sustainability of food production. Therefore, the resolution that pro supports is a possible solution to the latter problem while maintaining ecological stability. 1. Studies With over approximately 2 billion people who practice entomophagy, there have been several studies done to understand the nutritional benefits of insect consumption. A study by Rumpold and Schlüter focused on 236 edible insects. ""Although significant variation was found in the data, many edible insects provide satisfactory amounts of energy and protein, meet amino acid requirements for humans, are high in monounsaturated and/or polyunsaturated fatty acids, and are rich in micro nutrients such as copper, iron, magnesium, manganese, phosphorous, selenium and zinc, as well as riboflavin, pantothenic acid, biotin and, in some cases, folic acid."" [sic] (FAO) Another study was done earlier than the previous one, in 1997, analysing 78 species from Oaxaca state, Mexico. The final result was a report that determined the caloric content was 293-762 kilocalories per 100g of dry matter. Xioming et al. in 2010 evaluated the protein content of 100 species. It was found that of those evaluated, content ranged from 13-77 percent. (Refer to pg. 7 of FAO section 6. Nutritional value of insects for human consumption) In 2005, a study compared mopane caterpillars to beef when considering the needs of a 25-year-old male. It was found that the caterpillar was an excellent source of iron. Where beef is 6 mg per 100g of dry weight, the mopane caterpillar was 31-77 mg per 100g depending on their diets. Nutrition Cereal products are often key staples around the world and yet are often low in lysine and, in certain cases, tryptophan and threonin. However, in some insect species, these lacking pieces of nutrition are well represented. (FAO) Several examples are from the Saturniidae family, palm weevil larvae and aquatic insects(Crustaceans). In fact, this is seen in countries where the culture accepts entomophagy. Countries such as Papua New Guinea eat lysine/leucine-poor tubers but compensate with the consumption of palm weevil larvae. Insects are an important source of fat. For example, the Witchetty grub has a fat content of 38 percent when considering its dry weight. It's also rich in mono-unsaturated fatty acid.(FAO) 2. Population strain The need to feed a growing global population inevitably places continuous pressureon crop production, which in turn contributes further to the degradation of naturalresources (FAO, 2009a). [sic] 38 percent of land on planet Earth is dedicated to Agriculture(poultry, beef, crops, etc). It takes approximately 200 m^2 to grow a single pound of beef. However, AsapScience notes that it takes only 15 m^2, or .075 percent of 200, to grow a single pound of crickets, which are comparable in protein but have many essential vitamins and minerals. By 2025, an estimated 1.8 billion people will have limited access to water and yet 70 percent of our fresh water supplies are put in to agriculture. To understand where the 70 percent mainly goes, AsapSCIENCE details some of the consumers. 1 kg Standard Cattle take approximately 22,000 Liters of water to raise, 1 kg of Pork requires 3,500 Liters and and 1 kg Chicken require about 2,300 Liters. To make 1 kg of Crickets, approximately 1 Liter is required due to their ability to get much of their water from their food. Comparing edibility, Crickets (note this is just a single example, the pro is not simply advocating the singular consumption of one type of insect) have 80 percent of their body edible. Only 50 percent of a Chicken is edible and a mere 40 percent of Beef is edible. Having a heavily industrialized country such as the US rely on insect production instead of almost exclusively on crops and animal production would help the ecology massively. 3. Conclusions According to the Standard American Diet, 50 percent of all Americans die from hearts attacks and strokes, however there is a less than 4 percent chance observed in American vegetarians. Due to the issues that have been observed over many years (I will find sources for con to post next round if they request it in the comments) with vegetarians failing to get a truly balanced diet as certain nutrients just don't exist in large amounts with plants, insects are a viable solution. Children would be an excellent start as they will be able to grow up with acceptance of healthier eating through their school years. As a secondary benefit, it is commonly recognized that not just America, but many westernized countries (China is a notable exception) have a stigma against entomophagy. With the future generation being exposed to the benefits of insects, it will decrease the unreasonable thought that insects are purely unhealthy. This can standardize the acceptance of insects as they are already somewhat accepted by many in the United States. The acceptance is of the Crustaceans, aquatic insects, however. They are actually classified as an insect and yet many people I have interviewed personally have a stigma against terrestrial insects (Due to seeing flies, ticks, fleas, mosquitoes, etc.) but not aquatic insects. This is partly due to the fact that the Crustaceans are not something that we have to deal with constantly. Where flies buzz around the room, the only time most Americans see a Lobster is on a plate at the restaurant. Therefore, pro stands in affirmation of the resolution to have Children in the US exposed and encouraged to eat insects. Pro believes and has evidence to state that this would help the environment as well has aid in such issues as heart disease. Thank you. Sources Standard American Diet - http://www.fundamentalsofhealth.com... AsapSCIENCE - Should We All Be Eating Insects? - This is what will be referenced other than the FAO report due to their lacking specifics in credit, however the sources this video will be listed below and pro encourages the reading of them. FAO report on food security(2013) - http://www.fao.org... Edible Insects in a Food Safety and Nutritional Perspective: A Critical Review http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com... Why Insects Should Be In Your Diet - http://www.the-scientist.com... Rub a Dub Dub, Is It Time to Eat Grubs? - http://blogs.scientificamerican.com..."	PRO	102
102	S3750ddab-Abbcdf3b1	I should be a Sikh	"IDOLATRY: Idol worshipers generally have no share in the world to come, but there are exceptions; those being a tinok shenishba, as I explained above, in the case of the brainwashed Hindus. SOURCES: - As for a gentile who abides to the Seven Laws, see Maimonides' Mishneh Torah; Hilchot Teshuvah 3:5 ""The righteous of the non-Jews also have a portion in the World to Come"" There is an ancient tradition that three kings and four commoners have no share in the World to Come, which is recorded in the Tract of Sanhedrin's Chapter of Chelek. The commoners are: Balaam, Doeg, Ahitophel, and Gehazi. The kings are: Jeroboam, Ahab and Manasseh. Notice the first one, Balaam. Balaam is said to have no share in the world to come. Balaam was a gentile. Thus, we can conclude that gentiles do have a share in the world to come, as evidenced by Balaam being the exception. - As for people being judged differently based upon the environment in which they are raised, this is simple common knowledge. I don't think a source is required, but if you will be stubborn, see Tinok Shenishba. - As for the reincarnation, that's actually a deep thing. It's all recorded in Rabbi Isaac Luria's Shaar Hagilgulim (lit. gateway to reincarnations) - As for the Jewish afterlife being greater than that of the gentiles, see the famous Mishnah in Avot 4:17, ""And one hour of pleasure in the world to come is better than all the time in this world."" SIKHISM: They worship a different god then. Hashem never said that we should be vegetarians and wear turbans. Completely different god. For the gentiles, perhaps it's okay, but certainly not for a Jew. TEFILLIN: Why's it hard? Just by a pair online."	CON	103
103	Sc42f2f40-A995b49e7	Abortion Should Remain Legal	"""The prevention of harm to the woman is not the only reason for abortion, an abortion could be used for other reasons such as birth control, the prevention of a fetus with deformities from having a life of suffering, among other reasons."" Yes, but the prevention of harm to the woman is the only valid legal reason, and that reason was essentially decided along ethical lines – it's also the only valid ethical reason. A fetus with deformities? Which deformities? What's a ""life of suffering?"" People with disabilities aren't all wallowing in misery. ""An abortion could be necessary when it is too late to use other methods of birth control. And it doesn't make sense to say that women will always get an abortion instead of using other methods of birth control earlier. A woman will realize that it is easier to use protection opposed to not and always having to get abortions."" That is absolutely true. I'm saying that when an abortion is no longer necessary, because of alternative treatments, there is no longer a compelling interest for abortions to be legal. ""It is not possible to determine? Do you consider sperm to be human? Many people let millions of sperm die every day, but that will never be illegal. Some people think that a fetus becomes human when it can survive outside of the body. Some people think it becomes a human after it leaves the body. There can be many points when a fetus could be considered human, but the moment of conception is certainly not one of them. The moment of conception merely creates a cluster of cells that is incapable of thinking, showing emotion, of being conscious. A woman can choose where to draw the line of when the fetus is human, making abortion illegal is not the solution."" You ignore my point, and then drew completely different conclusions from your interpretation of it. The point is that human life exists along a continuum, and along that continuum there exist stages where, as you said ""a fetus could be considered human."" I am not arguing that conception is such a stage, but I don't need to because the morning after pill fixes that problem without abortion. Abortion is a procedure that is not performed on unfertilized eggs and sperm, or even on early stage zygotes, but on embryos and fetuses. The discussion of the validity of human life is only valid within this range. ""That may be true, but that 'someday' hasn't happened yet. For now, abortion must remain legal."" This is not what you were arguing. You were arguing that ""abortion should remain legal"" because ""women should have the right to their own bodies, not the government. A fetus is not a human, it is a potential human. Because of that, a potential human does not have any rights."" A fetus may, in fact, have rights, because it may be human, and not merely a potential human. Just as you said, definitions differ. By asserting that the fetus' rights are never taken into account, you are making an argument that abortions are justified no matter what happens. After all, if one being has rights and the other does not, then there is nothing stopping the one being from doing as it wishes to the other. I am arguing that abortion rights should not remain legal indefinitely, as you have proposed, because there may (and likely will) come a time when abortion is no longer a valid ethical risk to take. Other Reasons for Abortion ""A woman may want to get an abortion because she can't pay for the child. Would you want to be paying with your tax dollars for those unplanned children?"" Sure. I like people more than things. But seriously, she could have the child adopted, or be required to seek potential adoptive parents before birth. There are certainly enough people who would like to have children. ""Also, would you really deny a rape victim from having an abortion?"" Yes. Potential should not be thwarted because of origin. ""Would you expect her to care for a baby she didn't ask for, have to endure 9 months of pregnancy and labor, and have that baby as a reminder of the incident and that the child carries the genes of a rapist?"" 1.I am positing that a procedure may exist to remove the child safely from the mother and incubate it so that she can get on with her life. When this happens, labor pains can no longer be taken into account as an ethical concern. 2.The ""genes of a rapist"" argument is eugenics speak. Many children of rape are adopted and go on to live 'normal' lives. Rape is borne out of the effects of certain experiences on those organisms that develop as a consequence of their genes. You can not inherent actions, just (possibly) a likelihood to commit certain actions given similar circumstances. http://forums.adoption.com... "" Also, it shouldn't only be for a rape victim, there are other woman who don't want to carry that fetus around for 9 months that is an accident that a lot of parents would love less than a planned child."" This is an argument for better birth control, not abortion. "" And think of all the unplanned children adding to the population that is already starting to overcrowd, and how a kid would react if they found out that they were an accident."" This is also an argument for better birth control, not abortion."	CON	104
104	Scce0600f-A3d2790a3	Every adult in first world countries should be vegan.	You are excluding my brothers back in Africa and other third world countries? What if those people want to be vegan too? They have a RIGHT to choose what they eat. Saying that only first world whites should get that choice is extremely negligent and ignorant.	CON	105
105	Saeeb3794-Ad99b434b	Animal Testing should be allowed	"Firstly, I thank con for accepting my challenge, and would further like to state some reasons. Good Luck! :) 1) A good deal of people would say that so many animals are being killed in animal research but it isn't realised that animals are used in the food industry as well. The number of animals used in the food industry are countless comparing to animal research. People would approximately ear thirty sheep, five cows, six-hundred chickens in addition to thirty pigs in a lifetime whereas only three mice and one rat would be used in one humans lifetime due to animal research. In addition to all of this there are vegetarians in the world, including myself. The food industry uses more animals than the insignificant amount that animal research does and people don""t even think about the sum that the food industry uses. Animal research benefits more people using less animals and the food industry uses more animals and only helps non-vegetarians. Would you rather satisfy your hunger, in which there are other alternatives, or would you rather save millions of lives, in which there are no alternatives that are appropriate? 2) It is a fact that animals sometimes do get harmed and possibly killed from animal testing, but if it hadn't been for animal testing the dreaded human race would have died out in the present climate. Numerous people have died from heart failure, liver failure, diabetes and even throat infections! If animal testing continues then more people would be saved. By all means animals are vital to us as we use them in the food industry, and other general labour. If we stop animal testing the human race would wipe out; and because of this human beings wouldn't be able to keep control of the reproduction of animals, leading to many of them dying for their own record! Thus, if there wasn't any animal testing humans and animals both would die for their own record, eventually. Thank you. :)"	PRO	106
106	S3750ddab-A8cf74d45	I should be a Sikh	"I have to address this, Talmid thinks that all non-Jews are going to hell, so I have a question for him; Is that in Judaism? Talmid acts as if it is in this debate: http://www.debate.org... As we know, I admitted that I was wrong about Christianity in this debate for the following reason: I like not to think of myself as a hypocrite, if this is so, and with Muslims I would advise them to ditch Islam because of this moral fallacy, then I cannot remain a Christian and not be a hypocrite for it because it is present in Christianity. If this moral fallacy is in Judaism, tell me now, because then I will forget about it and never consider it again, I will convert to Sikhism, I will buy a turban and a Guru Granth and become a vegetarian. I cannot have a double standard, this moral fallacy is evil enough for me to look at no further evidence than its presence in the New Testament, and for that to be enough to drop Christianity all together. I must apply that to Judaism too, or I would be a hypocrite. But if it is NOT in Judaism, tell me now so I don""t make the mistake of leaving a good religion. Say it publicly that it was not in the Torah and you made it up."	PRO	107
107	Sc42f2f40-A6d68ccab	Abortion Should Remain Legal	"""How does that statement make sense if you said before hat the laws could be changed?"" Laws do not make ethics, ethics lead to the development of laws. ""And I'm pretty sure that abortion is legal for any reason before the third trimester, that's why it is called the woman's right to privacy."" It's only legal because of the ethical consideration of privacy (all persons', not just women's) outweighing the consideration of life where life is indeterminate. If there is no burden on privacy, then the consideration of life prevails. ""But even if it has restrictions in some states or more restrictions are made, then those laws could be changed, as you said."" No. These are restrictions derived from the Constitution. States can not pass just any laws; they pass those laws that comply with the State and Federal Constitutions. You would need to amend the constitution to change the laws permanently for your side. Even then, I would argue that such a change is unethical, because it encourages possible harm where needless. ""That analogy fails when it gets to the 7th word. A cat is a living thing, not a fetus."" My opponent fails to understand the meta-ethical argument. I could have just as well have said ‘baby' rather than cat, but I didn't want to seem horrifically callous. The fetus is the possibility inherent in the box, NOT the cat. The fetus may be something we would have an ethical obligation not to harm, or it may not. So long as an ethical obligation to prevent harm clearly exists for the person ""holding the box"" (pregnant), the indeterminacy of our obligation to the box's potential allows its sacrifice for the benefit of the person holding it. When there is no longer a compelling reason (potential harm) for sacrificing the box, the possibility that we may not meet our ethical obligations outweighs any personal desire to dunk the box. ""… why should you let them go through a pain-filled life and end it with more pain, instead of just save them from all of that with an abortion?"" A better question would be, what moral or ethical consideration did the mother have for bringing two more children into the world considering the difficulties she knew she would encounter with the first? At some point, personal responsibility matters more than one's ability to correct mistakes. ""The only problem with stem cells hat that article mentions is that some people think it's unethical. It is not unethical, because a fetus is not a living thing…"" Entirely false … it is a living thing, just as your organs are. The question is whether or not it is a human life, subject to protection as a citizen, not whether or not it lives. The possibility that it could be life, despite your definition, is why the fetus deserves ethical consideration. If I handed you a box and a gun, told you that there could be a baby in the box, and then told you to shoot the box, would you? No (I hope), because the possibility that there is a human life within keeps you from pulling the trigger. ""It may not be a surprise, but a lot of people aren't going to be testing for pregnancy or taking pills right after they have sex…The woman might not even remember having sex, she could have been tired, a little drunk, or both."" These are excellent arguments for personal responsibility. Why would the woman risk being put in a ‘dunk the box' situation, when she can prevent that situation from ever occurring? ""True, people draw the line at different places, but is eating meat illegal?"" No, but meat isn't made of people either. The vegetarian line-drawing was analogous to your saying that the fetus is/is not a human life. If it is, then you are taking a human life. That is not a choice you can just make, because human life is protected within society. ""You don't need statistic to know the obvious. Of course there are many people in the U.S. and the world that can't even pay to feed themselves. You know what what happen if abortion were made illegal? The population would grow."" This is an excellent rationale for either greater responsibility in sexual practices or forced sterilization. It is not a good rationale for an indefinite right to abortion. ""? What re you talking about? I said pregnancy and labor, not just labor pains. And to have the child taken away would mean the woman would have to endure both, what you said doesn't make sense."" If the woman believes that what qualifies her as a mother is only that she bears the child, then she does not deserve the child. A mother is a parent. A parent has duties and responsibilities that come with a child. If the woman is unwilling to be a parent, then she should not act as the mother. The child's welfare outweighs the mother's sense of entitlement. That is why we have social services. ""… the thing is, a fetus if NOT a human. Read this web page, it'll help you understand: http://www.capitalism.org...; Read this website: http://www.catholiceducation.org... No this one: http://www.associatedcontent.com... No, wait: http://www.enquirer.com... I think it is much more likely, as I have argued, that a fetus is indeterminate. You don't know that the fetus isn't a person. I don't know that it is. So long as it may be, it deserves consideration. If it didn't, people wouldn't debate it. ""I never accused you of being in love with rape, I just said you were okay with women having to endure the after-effects of it (pregnancy, labor, caring for the child, the child as a permanent reminder of the incident.)"" Nope, I said that the child could be either (a) given up for adoption or (b) incubated independently in the future. ""ABORTION IS NOT MURDER."" No, it's POSSIBLY murder. One should not risk the possibility, however, if there is no need to mitigate obvious harm. ""Even if we had alternative ways to terminate a pregnancy without the standard abortion procedure, it would still be an abortion, because it 'aborts' the fetus."" No, it wouldn't. I'm arguing independent incubation. The fetus lives and develops into a human outside the mother. ""Until the third trimester, yes."" Because of the option I presented above, no, not indefinitely. ""Pro-choice doesn't mean every action should have a choice, it only refers to abortion."" I am pro-choice in that sense, but I am also pro-responsibility, and pro-life if the choice is no longer ethically relevant. Removing the woman from harm removes that relevance. ""Incubation is a simulation of the body keeping the baby alive, since a fetus is a woman's property until it can survive on it's own, a woman can choose between incubation of abortion."" See, there we go. That's the real crux of my opponent's argument. The fetus is not the woman's ""property."" That is not where the right to have an abortion springs from. The fetus is maybe a human, the development of which could harm a definite human. That's why abortions are ethically valid now. If its development did not threaten harm, there would be no ethical reason to abort. It would be like shooting/dunking the box. Honestly, the atheist argument that a fetus is absolutely not a human life is as invalid as the Christian's argument that it absolutely is. We have no reference point to be sure of the truth of such a statement. Therefore, we must determine our ethics based upon a weighing of the ramifications of such statements assuming they could be true or false, which I have done and my opponent has failed to do. Please, vote Con. In order to bring us a step closer to a Libertarian society, and to protect all people, and all living beings that may be deserving of the rights of people, from the caprice of others' irrationality, abortion must be recognized as a right only so long as it protects against a harm."	CON	108
108	S8ccad7c0-Abfd4b1aa	As Long as we Continue to Eat Meat, Beastiality should be Legalized!	"I am pleased to see that this debate has actually gone somewhere because I have not had great experiences on this site lately. Now, my opponent's argument is more of an essay than a list of specific, related arguments so I will diverge from my typical style of debating and respond in turn. I have not studied the sexual behavior of animals and I do not have any intent to. However, my opponents entire second paragraph seems rather theoretical and quite notably lacks any citations. I would expect some sort of scientific documentation to affirm any alleged animal behavior since I doubt many of us have observed it directly. In any case, the topic of intercourse between non-sentient animals is not relevant to this debate. We are discussing sentient humans have sex with non-sentient animals, which is a different matter entirely. I will affirm that I am quite certain I do not value the lives of animals at all. Though I do not like to see them suffering and subjected to terrible conditions, I have no objection to humanely killing them. Hence, though I disapprove of slaughterhouses, I do not find it wrong to eat animals. I hope my stance on slaughterhouses and the eating of animals has been properly explained. I fully approve of the eating of animals but not the inhumane treatment of animals. Slaughterhouses are related to the inhumane treatment and are not a mutually nonexclusive with eating animals. As the title of the debate clearly states, I am to defend the eating of animals, not the killing of animals in slaughterhouses. It is not necessary to kill animals in a slaughterhouse in order to eat them. However, none of this really matters. Why we eat animals but condemn bestiality does not matter. We need only look to the resolution to see what I am arguing. ""As long as we continue to eat meat, bestiality should be legalized."" So, given that we eat meat, we can conclude that bestiality should be legalized? I see no logical connection that leads from one to the other, and as Con I expect my opponent to show this connection. The fact that eating meat MAY be wrong (and I don't believe it is) has no effect on the morality of bestiality. The resolution suggests that if we continue eat meat bestiality should be legal, which subsequently implies that if we don't eat meat, bestiality should not be legal. However, I fail to see how whether or not we presently eat meat had such a strong effect on whether or not bestiality should be legal. This becomes clearer when explained from the other direction. Suppose bestiality is ethical (as I will elaborate on later, I believe this is certainly not the case). Thus, if we stopped eating meat would it no longer be ethical for some unexplained reason? Suppose bestiality IS unethical, but none of us eat meat. If we started eating meat, would it become ethical? There is no necessary connection anywhere in this line of reasoning. Though I believe this is enough to conclude with certainly that bestiality should not be legal as long as we continue to eat meat, I think it will also be helpful to explain exactly why I believe eating meat is ethical and bestiality is not. In Defense of Eating Animals: Mary Anne Warren defines a person as a conscious, self-motivated, rational, self aware being with the ability to communicate. This definition is not anthropocentric, or even biocentric, and is used primarily in defense of abortion However, it works very well for these purposes as well. It also shows the most essential characteristics which differentiate sentient and non-sentient beings. Base on this definition, we can plainly see that animals are not people and therefore do not possess the right to life. Hence, as long as they are killed humanely, I see no problem with killing animals. Once they are killed, there is certainly no problem with killing them. Objections Against Bestiality: Now, I have already state that an animal is a non-rational creature. Hence, by definition, it lacks to ability to give its consent. Similarly, it is illegal to have sex with human children because they are not mentally advanced enough to give their consent. I find it rather unlikely that animals enjoy bestiality and not evidence has been provided to suggest that they do. However, regardless of any such evidence, it is still impossible to determine on an individual basis whether an animal consents to sexual intercourse. Given there is no way to determine of an animal consents to sex, any sex with an animal can be considered rape and therefore a form of violence. Though I do not object to quickly and painlessly killing animals for food, attacking and torturing them in this way is in no way acceptable. It is also probably not psychological healthy for humans to cultivate relationships with non-sentient creatures or objects and this behavior should not be encouraged. Conclusion: Even if eating animals is morally equivalent to bestiality, there is no necessary connect between the two. However, it is quite obvious that they are not morally equivalent. Eating animals is ethical provided that they are treated properly but bestiality is clearly not ethical."	CON	109
109	S95769c7a-A674ce4f9	Vegetarians and vegans should at least let their kids try meat out once.	"""This is false for a variety or reasons. First of all, ""children"" are, by definition, below the age of majority as theis is the exact age of a society where a child is labelled an adult [http://www.bclaws.ca......]. The age of majority is the age at which the concept of 'consent' is even considered to be possible for a person to give."" All you are saying is that children are not of the age of majority. All that law says is that in court children is to be concidered a minor if he/she is under the age of 19, instead of 21. This law is intended to be used in court cases. ""This is actually worse fr a vegan or vegetarian to do because if they cook it on their own grill, then they can ensure they're buying is organic whereas in a restaurant you have no clue how cruelly that animal was being treated in it battery farm environment before ending up on your plate. thus the parents are more likely to be funding inorganic farming in a restaurant than at their own home. This is especially true if the 'eating out' is a a fast-food outlet."" What i meant by they dont have to use their oven, grill, etc is that most vegans and vegetarians dont cook stumtff on a grill where meat has ever been. What i was infering was that it doesnt have to make your heat source corrupt. Also, you dont have to give your kid mcdonalds, you can give him something good from a coney island or a nice restaraunt. But not too nice to spoil them. ""why must the parents let their child beak one of their most sacred values for the sake of the child then regretting it ever broke the value in the first place? That's not only putting a burden fo guilt on the parents but causing hte kid to frever regret eating the meat it could have avoided eating."" The reason why letting a kid break his parents beliefs is because its what they believe in. Its not your right to take away something so simple that doesnt harm them or ruin their life forever. If the child chooses never to try meat, then thats their decision. Kids have rights that they dont know they have thanks to you. ""(4) ""Some parents would say that you can make your own decisions when your older. But by that time since the kid has never had meat. They will get sick from it everytime they try to eat it."" Plenty of vegetarians get sick from eating meat again. Very few can get away from that habit. But if the vegetarian is willing to go thru a few weeks of sickness than theyll be back to normal. A journey that few are willing to take. (http://www.divinecaroline.com...). ""Then discipline the bullies, not the vegetarian."" Disciplining bullies is a lot harder than you think. Most dont care avout rules and dont care about what happens to them. ""They can also be forced to have sex with an older man, which could lead to a lawsuit, should we let them have a go at sex because of that?"" First off, thats rape and thats illegal. Meat is not illegal and is one of the most normal things there is on earth. Second off, their is a lot more consequences to sex than there is to trying meat."	PRO	110
110	Sedd9358d-A8102f752	Meat production should be significantly reduced	"My thanks to my opponent for initiating this debate. My opponent contends that meat production should be significantly reduced. I contend that meat consumption should be significantly reduced instead, as the market for meat consumption is presently too large, and its economic impact too great, for our economy to bear an imposition upon its production. My opponent begins by stating that meat is a very inefficient form of nutrition. He also contends that there is a significant correlation between the consumption of red meat and various deleterious health effects, and that meat does not store as well as non-meat food products. All of these are excellent reasons not to consume meat. My opponent, however, calls for significantly reduced meat production. I intend to show why this is a bad idea. Meat consumption has steadily risen within the United States over the past several years, and shows no sign of abating. [1] [2] The value of the beef industry alone in the United States in 2006, for example, was $74 billion dollars, with approximately $2 billion dollars of export value. [3] Although meat exports are not as great as meat imports, the United States has certainly managed to hold its own. [4] Many jobs depend upon this trade, including the jobs of animal breeders, animal handlers, slaughterers, food scientists, and packagers. [5] To suddenly significantly alter, for the worse, the productivity of the trade on which these individuals rely for their livelihood would be reckless. Especially in a struggling economy. [6] Moreover, a significant decrease in production without a correlating decrease in consumption would not reduce demand but rather raise the value of meat, as the supply would no longer be sufficient to meet the demand at its pre-reduction rate. [7] This would result in prices for meat being raised. As a consequence, many people would find it more difficult to afford a food products that ""supply varying amounts of ... key nutrients, including iron, zinc, magnesium, vitamin E, and B vitamins (thiamin, niacin, and vitamins B6 and B12)."" [8] [9] One should not underestimate the dangers of starving a significant (reflecting decrease in production) portion of the population of meat. After all, the proteins in meat were responsible for the development of the modern human brain, and with it, modern civilization. [10] [11] Inefficient though its consumption may be, one could only imagine a society where meat was too scarce for many people to afford. Perhaps in time, if our consumption of meat sufficiently diminishes and our alternative protein source (tofu, for example) industries take off enough to replace the lost productivity of the meat market, we can talk about reducing or even eliminating meat production. For now, however, we must let them eat steak. As for my opponent's contention that meat production should be halted for environmental reasons, perhaps better business practices would suffice? [12] [1] http://www.hsus.org... [2] http://jn.nutrition.org... [3] http://www.ers.usda.gov... [4] http://www.ers.usda.gov... [5] http://www.bls.gov... [6] http://www.bls.gov... [7] http://en.wikipedia.org... [8] http://recipes.howstuffworks.com... [9] http://www.powerofmeat.com... [10] http://berkeley.edu... [11] http://www.beyondveg.com... [12] http://www.ses-corp.com..."	CON	111
111	S528d0e3f-Adc9f134c	Dog Fighting Should Be Legal	"I do apologize that this is not my best response. I have been moving into a new house and physically and mentally exhausted. I do hope that Danielle and I can debate again sometime. Burden of Proof Remember that because Danielle is arguing against the status quo, the burden of proof falls on her to affirm that dog fighting should be legal. -- Danielle's Case-- As I have pointed out, Danielle's case is based on non sequitur and issues that are irrelevant to the debate. She has failed to defend my rebuttals; thus, Danielle has failed to affirm her side of the resolution. Eating Meat Pro's first contention is that eating meat is not necessary for our health and thus eating meat is therefore animal abuse. 1. So what? If it was animal abuse, then I would agree that we should ban meat. 2. Evolutionary history shows that eating meat made us human [1]. 3. Furthermore, studies have shown that meat is necessary in our diet, especially in children. As Michael Hopkin writes in Nature [2]: Meat is a vital part of a child's diet, according to a two-year study of Kenyan school kids. Without it, children grow up smaller, less strong and less intelligent, the results suggest. So clear are the benefits, in fact, that denying children meat or dairy products in the first few years of life is unethical, argues Lindsay Allen of the University of California, Davis, who carried out the research. Double Standards Pro writes: ""We allow animal cruelty for sport with other animals like horses. We also use horses to pull us in carriages, and we keep circus animals and zoo animals, some of which are subject to worse conditions than others. In short, we impose arbitrary value on dogs that is subjective among the individual. It is nonsensical and unjust to punish people who fight dogs, but not those who abuse other animals unnecessarily for frivolous enjoyment. It is a contradictory double standard. Dog fighting should be legalized. It will likely not be any more popular than it already is on the underground, since most Americans love dogs. Thus this would have legal and moral benefits, but little to no downside."" This is probably the most relevant contention to the issues at hand. Danielle defined animal abuse as ""intentional infliction by humans of suffering or harm upon any non-human animal, for purposes other than self-defense or survival. More narrowly, it can be the causing of harm or suffering for specific gain [1]. Per the definition of animal abuse, I fail to see how using animals for work is in any way abuse. Furthermore, I would argue that hunting purely for sports entertainment is morally wrong and should be banned. Are there double standards? Sure. But that is irrelevant to the debate. -- My Case -- C1) Moral status of animals I will drop this contention as I am too exhausted to give a proper response to. C2) How dog fighting harms the community 1. Danielle argues that we can establish a minimum wage to view dog fighting. She also talks compares it to playing violent video games. This is in no way comparable as violent video games are fantasy whereas dog fighting is real life. Moreover, the jury is still out in regards to violent video games and their long term effects [3]. 2. Danielle writes that dog fighting is accompanied by illegal activities because it is illegal. To prove her point, she uses horse racing as an example because they are open to the public and monitored. She writes that dog fighting is kept secret and hidden 3. Baseless assertion without proof. --Conclusion-- Danielle has failed to demonstrate why dogs fighting should be legal. Her arguments are rather irrelevant to the debate. Vote con! Sources 1. http://tinyurl.com... 2. http://www.nature.com... 3. https://www.psychologytoday.com..."	CON	112
112	S95769c7a-A5e4e5143	Vegetarians and vegans should at least let their kids try meat out once.	"For the record, im not a vegan or vegetarian and i believe that eating meat is a great thing. Please dont try to change my viewpoint though, because you wont. Ive just seen too many kids born out of vegan/vegetarian households and they never eat meat because their parents put a ton of lies in their head. ""My opponent concedes that the law ignores a kid's/child's ability to give consent until they reach the age of majority. Thus to bring consent up with a child/kid is futile."" My point exactly. All you are missing though is that this law is for court purposes. If anyone goes into your source and reads that law thoroghly, anyone can easily tell its for court cases only. "" ""How would cooking meat make your heat source corrupt any more than it would make the kitchen in the restaurant corrupt for it to cook that meal for you? I don't care if you even go to 5-star restaurant, you have no idea how badly the animal you're getting was treated when it was alive and the restaurant would most likely sugarcoat it if you happened to ask them. Restaurants are too profit-oriented to care about organic produce and if you did find a farm that sold organic meat, there is still the issue of violating your vegetarian, or vegan, code to begin with."" The reason why you cook on a seperate grill is so the stuff left behind infrim meat such as smells, fat, pieces of meat,etc doesnt get left behind. If your a true vegan tou dont have anything to do with meat products, right? And if yhat doesnt bother you then move out to where theres no one for a lot of miles and raise your own pigs and cows. Or, even easier is to take them crawfish hunting or if you live by the coast then take them fishing. ""firstly you said ""eating meat again"" what did you mean by ""again""? That would completely destroy your case. Your own source states ""Not all vegetarians-turned-omnivores feael sick after their first meal back, because we don""t all have the same diets and therefore don""t digest everything the same way and with the same results."" [http://www.divinecaroline.com......] They then mention that it's only those who begin at fast food outlets who begin the sickness initiation. Thus, if the vegetarian has a balanced diet, according to your own source, they will not suffer form any ailments. This, much more scientifically verifiable, source phttp://sciencenordic.com......] states that it is only going to make them will if they just have a huge T-bone steak for dinner without any other foods to supplement it. That would make anyone sick. point is invalid and actually false. The eating of meat doe snot make a vegetarian sick, it's merely how balanced a diet they have when they begin. Some vegetarians begin binge meat-eating and your own sources say that this is the only thing that makes them sick. On top of that letting the kid eat meat only once int heir childhood will not make them any more capable of digesting meat at a later stage because their stomach would have long 'forgotten' it."" What i meant by they would eat meat again is i was saying that they might have of had meat before, si now they are trying it again. No body gets sick from just eating meat at a dinner. Only vegetarians would because thay are not used to it. ""I don't care how hard it is to discipline bullies. You are going to discipline them because letting a vegetarian get punished for their way of life by bullying is not acceptable in the slightest."" Yes bullies do need to be stopped, but there is worse things out there than being made fun of for being vegetarian. ""Actually, forcing a child to eat meat against their will is called child abuse. If other children do it, it's called non-sexual molestation because they touched the child's body, especially the mouth, in a way that traumatizes them. In worst-case scenarios it's referred to as blackmail."" We are not fircing children to ear against there will. All im saying is that children have the right to choose. If they dont want to eat meat then thats fine, but if they do they should have every right to do so. You keep talking about karma. Whats so bad about eating meat. Does this mean im going to die by a beart attack at age 79 instead of peacefully in my sleep at 80 for eating animals? If so then thats fine by me."	PRO	113
113	S528d0e3f-Aa3685bfe	Dog Fighting Should Be Legal	I'd like to thank my opponent for his kind words. I look forward to a great debate! Let's begin. Animal abuse is the intentional infliction by humans of suffering or harm upon any non-human animal, for purposes other than self-defense or survival. More narrowly, it can be the causing of harm or suffering for specific gain [1]. Per the definition of animal abuse, killing animals qualifies as abuse, regardless of one's reason for killing the animal. Humans do not need to eat animals in order to survive. You can have a healthy diet without eating meat [2]. Yet a 2014 survey by Harris Interactive and the Humane Research Council found that less than 2% of Americans identified as vegetarian [3]. That means 98% of the American population has no problem with abusing (killing) animals for their own personal satisfaction. Since eating meat is a perfectly fine option for most people, we as a society have accepted that we will tolerate animal abuse when it comes to satiating our individual preferences. Many people enjoy dog fighting. Why is it okay to kill animals for food when we don't need to, but not okay to kill dogs for sport? Consider the fact that people go hunting for animals they do not need or intend to eat, and people often use animals for fur and other arbitrary things we like [4]. We ignore the pain and suffering of animals when it comes to legalized hunting or factory farms, yet hypocritically impose a different standard when it comes to dogs. Despite our cultures affinity for dogs (I personally love them), not all cultures value or appreciate dogs the way we do. In some cultures, dogs are considered pests. Middle Eastern cultures don't like dogs, and in Asia they eat them [5]. Dogs are not inherently more valuable than any other animal. Animals are valued differently in each culture and by each individual. For example Hindus think cows are very sacred, while many non-Hindu Americans love to eat them. Animals that Americans have no problem enslaving, torturing and slaughtering for our own satisfaction include pigs. Pigs are far smarter and more cognizant, sentient and self-aware than dogs and even chimpanzees [6]. Yet despite how much brain power they have, we destroy them brutally [7]. Why hold dogs to a different standard? In this country animals are considered property. They can be bought and sold. They do not have rights. We can essentially do what we please with our animals. For example if I buy a lamb, I can kill it tonight and make lamb chops tomorrow. Thus if I buy a dog, why couldn't I kill the dog the same way? People will always be drawn to enterprises where they can make money. If people can make money off killing dogs, I fail to see how that's different from profiting off the killing of other animals - especially animals that are more sentient. Forcing these people to the black market only makes them criminals unnecessarily, whereas other people who kill animals out in the open (like farmers and butchers) are not penalized by law. Instead they pay taxes and society benefits from their work. Not everyone has to agree with the morality of each business endeavor. Many people are against cigarettes, prostitution, marijuana or other things that are considered taboo, however it is not the job of the government to regulate people's morality. Rather the government exists to facilitate/protect trade and protect people's rights. Again, people have legal dominion over animals [8]. Many feel that we morally have authority over animals as well; the Bible claims this is so [9]. We allow animal cruelty for sport with other animals like horses [10]. We also use horses to pull us in carriages, and we keep circus animals and zoo animals, some of which are subject to worse conditions than others. In short, we impose arbitrary value on dogs that is subjective among the individual. It is nonsensical and unjust to punish people who fight dogs, but not those who abuse other animals unnecessarily for frivolous enjoyment. It is a contradictory double standard. Dog fighting should be legalized. It will likely not be any more popular than it already is on the underground, since most Americans love dogs [11]. Thus this would have legal and moral benefits, but little to no downside. I look forward to my opponent's contentions. [1] https://en.wikipedia.org... [2] http://www.mayoclinic.org... [3] https://en.wikipedia.org... [4] http://adventure.howstuffworks.com... [5] http://www.spockthedog.com... [6] http://www.dailymail.co.uk... [7] http://www.citypages.com... [8] https://en.wikipedia.org... [9] http://biblehub.com... [10] http://www.peta.org... [11] http://www.huffingtonpost.com...	PRO	114
114	S3471caff-A17cebe6	Meat, dairy, and eggs should be banned worldwide.	Pro will make a brief summary. Pro has proven meat, eggs, and dairy are unhealthy. Pro has also proven that a person can receive enough nutrients on a vegan diet. Finally Pro has proven that a vegan diet is healthier. Con's arguments are redundant and non-persuasive. Pro has proven the environmental harm of non-vegan foods. Pro has also proven animal cruelty. Last, but not least Pro has shown that more people could be fed if every was vegan. Meat, dairy, and eggs should be banned worldwide.	PRO	115
115	S1900cfd9-Aa3964d00	Animal Abuse should be stopped	"Do Animals have equal rights as Humans ? That is the underlying problem in this debate because if Animals have Equal Rights as Humans then Animals do not deserve to be Abused as my opponent claims. I will argue that Animals do not have Equal Rights as Humans and therefore are considered to be Private Property.........so therefore no one can say who can do what with their property. Humans are guaranteed certain unalienable Rights. The Right to Express Themselves, The Right to Choose, The Right to Vote, The Right to Love, The Right to Free Health Care, The Right to Distinguish Good from Wrong,........... Let's focus on one of them, The Right to Distiguinsh Good From Wrong. Animals have no free will. They can not choose Right or Wrong. Take for example the Tiger. You can't convince a tiger not to hunt when it's hungry, not even if the potential prey would be someone's baby. This is because the tiger can't see it's *doing bad* by hunting your baby, so it cannot make a choice, between feeding its stomach or sparing the life of a baby. This means the tiger has no free will. On the other hand, obviously, if the tiger kills a baby, it is not guilty: the tiger simply cannot choose. This is the most obvious difference between an animal and a human: the ability of choosing on a moral basis (what is better and for whom) implies the birth of the term ""right"", the inability to do so implies the inapplicability of any rights. This is the main reason why animals cannot have rights. So therefore since because Animals do not have Equal Rights as Humans, Animals are therefore Property of the Human and therefore can or can not be respected. We Humans then have the right to control lesser species. Of couse, Animals have feelings...... in pain as all Animals do including Humans. But Humans have evovled in such a way that allowed them to think logically............ ........................................................................ "" Animals should be respected just like how you respect other people. "" The reason why we have a respect for People is because we are Humans ! We have all of those rights I mentioned up above....... so having respect for other people is reaffirming respect for ourselves as a Human Being. However Humans have a right to respect other animals or to abuse them because it is their right to do what they want with their Private Property. "" Do you just go and abuse other people? "" No, because we have something called Free Will that helps us determine good from wrong. Animals do not make Moral Choices. They act on instinct as I mentioned above. If we stop Animal Abuse, where do we draw the line ? Chickens have their heads cut off during Meat Processing, Dogs being totured even though that is the Owner's Choice.........because Dogs are Private Property,......... I If we say this is bad, then this is bad, then our entire Human Expierince is based on Toturing Animals. I will end with a Quote from the Catechism of the Catholic Church. "" 1704 The human person participates in the light and power of the divine Spirit. By his reason, he is capable of understanding the order of things established by the Creator. By free will, he is capable of directing himself toward his true good. He finds his perfection ""in seeking and loving what is true and good."" Can Animals decide for themselves that Abuse is bad ?"	CON	116
116	S95769c7a-A2d5bda87	Vegetarians and vegans should at least let their kids try meat out once.	"First let's look at the moral issue. If you are vegetarian, especially vegan, you believe that eating meat is inherently immoral and that to do so is making you pure scum. If you didn't have this belief, then why are you vegetarian to begin with? Vegetarianism and Veganism is not simply avoiding to eat meat and animal-related products, it's going so far as to say that there is moral loss and scarification to one's soul or moral debt if they choose to do this. Why on Earth should such parents allow their children to scar their own soul or tarnish their lack of karmic debt? There is simply no reason at all. Let me now list Pro's arguments and disprove them one by one: (1) ""It is the child's decision whether they consent to eating meat or not."" This is false for a variety or reasons. First of all, ""children"" are, by definition, below the age of majority as theis is the exact age of a society where a child is labelled an adult [http://www.bclaws.ca...]. The age of majority is the age at which the concept of 'consent' is even considered to be possible for a person to give. (2) ""I'm not saying that the vegetarian parents should cook meat on their grill, oven, etc. what I'm saying is to let the kid eat what he wants when He out to eat."" This is actually worse fr a vegan or vegetarian to do because if they cook it on their own grill, then they can ensure they're buying is organic whereas in a restaurant you have no clue how cruelly that animal was being treated in it battery farm environment before ending up on your plate. thus the parents are more likely to be funding inorganic farming in a restaurant than at their own home. This is especially true if the 'eating out' is a a fast-food outlet. (3) ""And if the kid doesn't like meat or he truly does believe that meat us murder, then he can choose to live that lifestyle."" why must the parents let their child beak one of their most sacred values for the sake of the child then regretting it ever broke the value in the first place? That's not only putting a burden fo guilt on the parents but causing hte kid to frever regret eating the meat it could have avoided eating. (4) ""Some parents would say that you can make your own decisions when your older. But by that time since the kid has never had meat. They will get sick from it everytime they try to eat it."" This is an absolute lie. It is a literal biological lie. There is absolutely no correlation between time in life that one first eats meat and the probability that they will get sick from it. (5) ""Plus, kids can get bullied at school fir being a vegetarian."" Then discipline the bullies, not the vegetarian. (6) ""Or worse, kids could try to force them to eat meat. Which could mean a lawsuit."" They can also be forced to have sex with an older man, which could lead to a lawsuit, should we let them have a go at sex because of that?"	CON	117
117	S932cc55a-A14658a87	Rachael Carson was an eco-terriorist who has killed millions of people so far	"Bah, that approach didn't work. Its always good to try new things right? The FBI defines eco-terrorism ""as the use or threatened use of violence of a criminal nature against innocent victims or property by an environmentally oriented, subnational group for environmental-political reasons, or aimed at an audience beyond the target, often of a symbolic nature."" Foxnews.com ""Examples of tactics There are a wide variety of tactics that have been used by eco-terrorists and groups associated with eco-terrorism. Examples include: Tree spiking is a common tactic that was first used by members of EarthFirst! in 1984. Tree spiking involves hammering a small spike into the trunk of a tree that may be logged with the intention of damaging the chainsaw or mill blades and may seriously injure the logger. Only one case of serious injury has been widely reported.[10] Arson is a tactic most associated with recent activity in the Earth Liberation Front (ELF). The ELF has been attributed with arsons of sites such as housing developments, SUV dealerships, and chain stores.[10]"" wikipedia Okay, I should have looked up what eco-terrorism is before using my keyboard to post this. I don't think Rachael Carson used arson or anything like that so she isn't an eco-terrorist. Yet, I still think she was responsible for millions of deaths. ""Rachel Carson was The Queen of Junk Science and was the FIRST Environmental-Terrorist."" pesticidetruths.com Since the website makes a blatantly false claim, the validity of the information on the website is in question. Still its common knowledge that pathogens cause diseases like malaria. Malaria is carried by mosquitoes. DDT kills mosquitoes. Therefore, by banning DDT more people have died from malaria. ""DDT""the very substance that had made it possible to vanquish malaria from vast portions of the globe. By means of that ban, environmentalists effectively ensured that, over the course of the ensuing 30+ years, more than 50 million people would die needlessly of a disease that was entirely preventable."" discoverthenetworks.org ""In 2006, after 25 years and 50 million preventable deaths, the World Health Organization reversed course and endorsed widespread use of the insecticide DDT to combat malaria. So much for that. Earlier this month, the U.N. agency quietly reverted to promoting less effective methods for attacking the disease. The result is a victory for politics over public health, and millions of the world's poor will suffer as a result."" wsj.com Looks like the information about malaria and preventable deaths is correct. Even if violence isn't used and the label eco-terrorism is incorrect. The potential for harm is great. Rachael Carson and her DDT banning minions are identical to the anti-vaxxer movement. This proves misinformation and propaganda can be more dangerous than fire and bullets. Reminds me of the climate change deniers. http://www.foxnews.com... https://en.wikipedia.org... http://pesticidetruths.com... http://www.discoverthenetworks.org... http://www.wsj.com..."	PRO	118
118	S3471caff-Aff47f915	Meat, dairy, and eggs should be banned worldwide.	"Outline I. Intro II. Why meat, eggs, and dairy should be banned worldwide. III. Rebuttal of Con IV. Links I. Intro First, to reiterate the resolution. Resolution: Meat, dairy, and eggs should be banned worldwide. Con makes the statement below which confuses who is Pro and who is Con. Pro is the person that wants meat, eggs, and dairy to be banned worldwide. Con is the person who rejects the resolution and contends for no change to take place. ""Dear judges, if you are looking to be healthy and happy, vote pro. If you do NOT wish to suffer of health diseases. Vote pro. If you want to stay you. Vote pro. Thank you."" Con has an identity crisis. I am Pro and Con is Con. II. Why meat, eggs, and dairy should be banned worldwide. Meat, eggs, and dairy should be banned worldwide because they are unhealthy to consume, production causes excessive environmental damage, production causes animal cruelty, and production agitates world hunger. Claim 1: Meat, eggs, and dairy are unhealthy to consume. Warrant 1: These products contain excess amounts of fat, saturated fat, cholesterol, and animal protein. While lacking antioxidants, fiber, and phytonutrients. Eating animal products displaces healthy food. Impact: Meat, eggs, and dairy are unhealthy and displace healthy food and should be banned. Claim 2: Production of animal products causes excessive environmental damage. Warrant 2: ""Many fishing practices are extremely destructive to delicate habitats - particularly vital fish breeding grounds like coral reefs and seagrass meadows.""[5]. ""The cattle sector in the Brazilian Amazon is the largest driver of deforestation in the world, responsible for one in every eight hectares destroyed globally. Efforts to halt global deforestation emissions must tackle this sector. ""[6]. Impact 2: Production of meat, eggs, and dairy causes excessive environmental damage and should be banned. Claim 3: production causes animal cruelty Warrant 3: ""At 18 months of age, a fraction of a chicken's life span, these hens were considered spent, unable to produce eggs at a fast enough rate, and they were scheduled for slaughter. All 100 of them bore the physical and psychological scars of an entire young life spent in the crowded confines of a sunless, windowless, ammonia-filled cement shed. Even after weeks of sanctuary life, many are still in a state of constant terror, still panicking at the drop of a leaf, still cowering at the smallest noise, as if hit by a physical blow to the body. "" [7]. Impact 3: If free range chickens are treated this way, cage-free and battery cage chickens must suffer even more. Deliberately and intentionally causing animal suffering is immoral. Claim 4: production agitates world hunger Warrant 4: ""Meat is less efficient because we eat the animal that eats the grain instead of eating the grain ourselves. It takes about 15 pounds of feed to make 1 pound of beef, 6 pounds of feed for 1 pound of pork and 5 pounds of feed for 1 pound of chicken, the Department of Agriculture estimates. For catfish, it's about 2 pounds of feed per pound of fish."" [8]. ""The environmental comparison of cheese varieties made from cow milk and directly from lupine and the evaluation of energy inputs in fish protein and vegetable protein also suggest an environmental advantage for vegetarian food. "" [9] ""It""s increasingly evident, however, that a part-time vegan diet "" one that emphasizes minimally processed plant food at the expense of everything else "" is the direction that will do the most to benefit human health, increase animal welfare and reduce environmental impact."" [10] Impact 4: It takes at least twice as much pounds of grain to produce one pound of meat as opposed to eating the grain directly. This grain fed to livestock could be fed to hungry humans thus mitigating world hunger. The same is true of dairy as seen in link [9]. Meat, dairy, and egg production agitate world hunger and should be banned worldwide. Its unjust for 1st world countries to continue to consume large quantities of animal products. Pro has now established why meat, eggs, and dairy should be banned. Now why not just ban these animal products in Rhode Island? Why the entire world? The environment and world hunger are global problems. It would be unjust to ban these products in one nation or state and instead should be banned worldwide. III. Rebuttal of Con ""My first assertion is that meat, eggs and dairy are required to maintain a healthy diet. What kind of diet if without meat, eggs and dairy? A diet that will cause life long health and eating problems. Without eggs, meat and dairy, people will suffer due to mal nutrition. "" Con This would be an effective argument is Con provided evidence to back up this claim. In fact Con's first link supports Pro's side. ""Fruit are whole foods, with plenty of fiber, nutrients and antioxidants. It is very difficult to overeat fructose if you""re only getting it from whole fruit."" [11]. ""A 100 gram portion (3.5 ounces) of raw ground beef contains large amounts of Vitamin B12, B3 (Niacin), B6, Iron, Zinc, Selenium and plenty of other vitamins and minerals (5)."" Con It seems Con ran out of characters and did not post links to all sources used by Con. Pro contends its unfair for Con not to link the original source. Pro needs to see the quotes in their original context. ""Vitamin B12 is particularly important because it can not be gotten in ANY amount from plants. Studies show that out of vegans who don""t supplement with B12, 92% are deficient in this critical nutrient (6)."" Con B12 comes from bacteria. Raw organic fruits and vegetables are covered in bacteria. Since B12 comes from bacteria and not animals nor plants, the claim that B12 cannot be gotten in any amounts from animals nor plants is accurate but misleading. Since, bacteria are found just about everywhere on the planet Earth. Bacteria producing b-12 can be found in the human gut. ""Microorganisms are the only natural sources of the B12-derivatives"" [12]. ""Vitamin B12 synthesis by human small intestinal bacteria"" [13]. ""B12 From Fruits And Vegetables All fruits and vegetables contain some B12, but it's often in small quantities. Organic fruits and vegetables contain significantly more, however. Why? Bacteria eat decaying organic matter and excrete complex nutrients into the soil, including B12. This is then absorbed by plants, with some staying in the roots and some making its way into the leaves for us to take in."" [14]. B-12 can be gained from bacteria in the soil and human gut as well as supplements. As for 92% being deficient in b-12, all that means is that a little extra care is needed when on a vegan diet. Note, the 92% didn't supplement. ""Unprocessed meat is also loaded with healthy fats, but meat from grass-fed animals contains up to 5 times as much Omega-3 as meat from grain-fed animals"" Con Looking at the amount of omega-3's from grass-fed cows there are insignificant amounts. Pro seriously doubts that unprocessed meats are loaded with healthy fats. No outside link backing this claim up is supplied by Con. ""Milk and dairy products contain many nutrients and provide a quick and easy way of supplying these nutrients to the diet within relatively few calories. "" Con Milk is a dairy product, this statement is redundant. Dairy products are high in fat, fat contains 9 calories per gram. Dairy products are some of the highest fat and calorie per pound products available. ""Vegetarians are deficient in creatine, leading to reduced physical and mental performance "" Con Con does not supply proof for these claims. Pro contends that creatine is not to be concerned with. ""Carnosine is only found in animal foods"" Con Con has picked a term that hardly anyone has heard of and without proof, now claims that this nutrient is important. Both creatine and carsosine are proteins, and a vegan can receive enough protein. """"DHA and EPA are the active forms of Omega-3 in the human body and found primarily in animal foods. The body is inefficient at converting ALA (the plant form of Omega-3) to the active forms"" Con Fish receive their DHA and EPA omega-3s from eating seaweed and microalgae. A vegan can eat seaweed and microalgae for nourishment. ""Omega-3 fatty acids for nutrition and medicine: considering microalgae oil as a vegetarian source of EPA and DHA.""[15]. Pro is running out of characters and cannot address every point Con makes. Con goes on to state all the minerals and vitamins in animal products. Yes, there is vitamins and minerals in these foods, but so is there in plant foods. Kale and collards are two great examples. Con then goes onto economics and feasibility. Meat is a humongous industry. Yet, sooner or later morals take precedence over the wallet. Global climate change is a dire threat. If nothing else, self-survival demands that meat, eggs, and dairy to be banned worldwide. Vote Pro. Thank you. Pro looks forward to the next round of debate. IV. Links 5. http://wwf.panda.org... 6. http://www.greenpeace.org... 7. http://www.humanemyth.org... 8. http://usatoday30.usatoday.com... 9. http://ajcn.nutrition.org... 10. http://www.nytimes.com... 11. http://authoritynutrition.com... 12. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov... 13 .http://www.nature.com... 14. http://www.raw-food-health.net... 15. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov..."	PRO	119
119	S3471caff-Aab78ab52	Meat, dairy, and eggs should be banned worldwide.	"Hello once again, audience, judges. I am Forever 23 and I am going to bring forth the premise which is that meat, dairy and eggs should be banned world wide. So let me begin with some counter-counter rebuttles. To refute my point about the proteins, they stated that meat causes overeating. However, it is not about what you eat. Its about how much you eat. If someone stuffed themselves full with vegetables, they would gain a lot of weight. http://www.everydayhealth.com... In the study, a team of researchers at Pennington Biomedical Research Center in Baton Rouge, La., randomly assigned several hundred overweight people to one of four diet combinations: low fat and higher carb; high protein with low fat and higher carbs; high fat and lower carbs; or high protein, high fat, and lower carbs. Each participant’s plan was designed to cut 750 calories a day from their current diet. After six months and again after two years, researchers gauged participant’s weight, fat mass, and lean mass. Across the board, the strongest predictor for weight loss was not the makeup of any particular diet, but rather how stringent the participants were in sticking to the reduced-calorie plan. Researchers concluded that the findings show that dieters should choose restricted-calorie plans that work for them, and not base their diet plans off of a particular fad (e.g. a low-carb diet isn’t the best plan for someone with a sweet tooth). This study mirrors the results of more recent results from the Pennington Biomedical Research Center, which found that extra calories and low protein are the two largest culprits that lead to weight gain. Published in the Journal of the American Medical Association, researchers in this study concluded that the extra calories lead to weight gain, while the low protein levels caused participants to gain fat and lose muscle mass over time. Their second counter rebuttle was that vegetables have a lot of proteins to. However, proteins are not the only minerals needed for a healthy diet. Let me state a fact about what the vegan diet will lack: Because B12 is critical for life and isn’t found in any amount in plants (except some types of algae), it is by far the most important nutrient that vegans must be concerned with. In fact, B12 deficiency is very common in vegans, one study showing that a whopping 92% of vegans are deficient in this critical nutrient. But B12 is just the tip of the iceberg… there are other lesser known nutrients that are only found in animal foods and are critical for optimal function of the body. Here are a few examples: Animal protein contains all the essential amino acids in the right ratios. It is important for muscle mass and bone health, to name a few. Vegans don’t get any animal protein, which can have negative effects on body composition. Creatine helps form an energy reservoir in cells. Studies show that vegetarians are deficient in creatine, which has harmful effects on muscle and brain function. Carnosine is protective against various degenerative processes in the body and may protect against aging. It is found only in animal foods. The pro refused to compromise by saying that the killing of animals itself is cruel. However, the plant growing that they sugget is also cruel. I quote from http://besynchro.com... To start with, many of the foods that vegans eat a lot of have major negative ecological impact (think soy and grains). Beyond that, even the saving animal lives argument doesn't stand up to scrutiny. The reality is, any time you eat a food that is farmed on a large scale, you are complicit in a huge number of animal deaths that happen during the harvesting process. The industry refers to these as ""tractor kills"" and the animals are typically rodents and other small creatures. On the other hand, if you ate local grass-fed, grass-finished beef every day for a year, you'd be responsible for killing about 2/3 of an animal. Kind of makes you re-evaluate when you see how a vegan can be responsible for many more animal deaths over the course of a year than someone who eats beef every day, right? Therefore, its best to agree that eating meat will be okay. Unless we want to starve people for the complete welfare of animals. Theirlast counter rebuttle was that it will solve hunger partially. However, it will help hunger by 0%. World hunger is not caused by the lack of food. http://www.psrast.org..., Summary The food resources of the world are abundant rather than scarce according to Peter Rosset, director of Institute for Food and Development Policy in California. Even in countries with excess food production millions are starving. This is explained in detail in the recent book by Lappe, Frances Moore, Joseph Collins, and Peter Rosset; ""World hunger: Twelve Myths"", New York: Grove Press. Second Edition 1998. - The belief that world hunger can be solved by increasing food production is an unsubstantiated myth. It has lead to policies by international organs that have supported farming policies that in practice have boosted production of expensive export foods on the expense of production of basic foods for the population. The real problem is poverty. As the market responds to money and not to actual need, it can only work to eliminate hunger when purchasing power is widely dispersed according to Rosset. As the rural poor are increasingly pushed from land, they are less and less able to demand for food on the market. Promoting free trade to alleviate hunger has proven to be a failure. In most developing countries exports have boomed while hunger has continued unabated or actually worsened according to the book. Now onto my counter rebuttles. They refuted my point by saying that pro has alredy proved that meat, dairy and eggs are unhealthy. However, through extensive research, government agencies and nutrition programs have proved thet health benefits of meat eggs and dairy. If you look at my refutations and points, you can find multiple evidences. Next they pointed out how moral over power ""the wallet"". They do. Millions of people will lose jobs if we close down the farming industry. Millions will starve and live in poverty. Is that really what we want to do? Cause millions of farmers and their loving families to starve? Imagine, all over the world, the farming industry was closed down. Imagine, everybody, poor and alone crowded on the streets begging for money. That is clearly what pro wants. They refuted that by saying that this will not happen overnight. That was never my point. My point was that we are ominivores. And NO COUNTRY WILL AGREE TO TAKE MEAT OUT OF THE DIET. The also mentioned as refutation for my yogurt argument that yogurt good bacteria can be found everywhere. However, I figure it is needless to explain that yogurt has special becteria which can only be found in dairy. Now allow me to introduce the argument about the right to body. Everybody has the right to do whatever they want with their body and health. http://www.amnestyusa.org... We all have the right to make decisions about our own health, body, sexuality and reproductive life, without fear, coercion, violence or discrimination. But all over the world, people's freedom to make these decisions is controlled by the state, medical professionals, even their own families. Criminal law and punitive sanctions are frequently used to control such choices. In the end, many people are prevented from making any choice at all. Thank you. Vote opp"	CON	120
120	S3750ddab-Ac8b2af0c	I should be a Sikh	"LIES!: I never said that non-Jews go to Hell. You seem to be putting words in my mouth. Show me where I ever said that; precisely the opposite in the religion of the Jews. In Judaism, anyone can merit eternal reward, even gentiles. However, they have to abide to the Seven Noahide Laws. There are many more Noahide Laws, but the MAIN ones consist of seven. They are: LAWS!: 1. Do not worship an idol 2. Do not curse G-d 3. Do not kill 4. Do not commit sex crimes (adultery, homosexuality, pedophilia, incest, and bestiality) 5. Do not steal (this includes kidnapping and rape, for when you kidnap a person, you are ""stealing him"") 6. Do not eat from a living animal (if you tear an limb from an animal which is alive, that piece of meat is impure forever and can never be consumed. If you want to eat from an animal; that is permitted, but before you take anything from it, it must be DEAD.) 7. Establish court systems to enforce law, justice, and order. Not necessarily only the laws mentioned above, but everything which is necessary to keep a civil environment. ADDITIONAL INFO: If a gentile lives his life abiding to this code, he merits a share in the world to come. If he dies without ever having accepted this law upon himself, then he is judged. Each man is judged differently, according to how he was brought up. For example, a Hindu who was brainwashed to believe in his idols will not receive the same punishment as someone from a Noahide family who decided to worship idols. Instead, he might come back in a reincarnation to fix his crime, and then he can ascend to Heaven. This is why very often you might see a man who dies at thirty - because he completed his purpose in life and it is time for him to move on. While it is true that gentiles do receive an afterlife, it is not comparable in the slightest to the Jewish afterlife, which is MUCH MUCH MUCH MUCH MUCH (much x 10000) greater. However, it is very unrecommended for a gentile to convert. The reason for this is because the Jews have 613 laws, which are obviously much more burdensome (that is why they reeceive greater reward). G-d judges Jews harsher than he judges gentiles, because he expects more from them. If you wish to stay on the safe side, it's better to remain a gentile. However, if you are 100% sure beyond all doubt that you'll be able to live a kosher Jewish life, then go ahead and convert; for the sake of your reward. SIKHISM: It is forbidden for you personally to become a Sikh because in Sikhism you will obviously not be living a holy Jewish life wearing tefillin, abstaining from illicit relations, keeping Shabbat, kosher, etc. As for a gentile becoming a Sikh; I am unsure whether it is permissible. Technically, they do worship one god. However, I have not done the research as to what they believe this god of theirs is. Therefore, I wouldn't take any risks. It could be a corporeal deity like Zeus (which is complete idolatry, even if you dont build any statues/idols). I can understand why you want to become a Sikh instead of being a Jew, while the evidence is in your face that the Jews are the only ones who adhere to the true religion. The reason is simple: Because you feel unable to follow the laws of the Torah. I assure you that it isn't as hard as you think. Shabbat - if you do it right, it can be paradise. No phone calls, no school, no work, no electronics. We rest, family gathers together, we eat delicious meals, we sing beautiful melodies, we learn Torah, we engage in halachic discussions, etc etc etc. The whole thing feels like Heaven on Earth, IF YOU DO IT RIGHT! Tefillin is not that hard either. I mean, come on. How hard is it to wake up early in the morning, wash netilat yadayim, put on tefillin, say Shema Yisrael, and take them off?! Two minutes! What's the big deal? Then you can go back to sleep!"	CON	121
121	Saeeb3794-A4b7a0e50	Animal Testing should be allowed	"Thank you, pro, for your rebuttal and arguments. "" it is unfortunate that you have not considered the fact of breeding programs also occurring in animal testing, as proved in the 'Royal Society Publishing', written by highly qualified scientists and professors. "" It is true that there are breeding programs also occurring in animal testing but is it that all the animal testing that is occurring in this world contains animal breeding programs? and is it that all the species of animals that are being tested on have led to successful results? Rats are given infected blood to see what effect it takes on them. Is it fair?(a) Is it that the Tokay gecko is bred in all the animal testing labs? Then why is there such a high demand for it? Why is it that the 'tokay"" call that I used to hear every evening near my home has now ceased?(b) (a)http://t0.gstatic.com... (b)http://upload.wikimedia.org... ""Also, animals that go through animal testing are not going through pain and suffering or death."" Animal testing brutality is an endless list.(c) Animals endure chemicals being dripped into their eyes, injected into their bodies, forced up their nostrils or forced down their throats. They are addicted to drugs, forced to inhale/ingest toxic substances, subjected to maternal deprivation, deafened, blinded, burned, stapled, and infected with disease viruses. These treatments are exempt from anti-cruelty statutes, and worse yet, undercover investigations have exposed violations of animal welfare policies and cases of extreme negligence at labs and universities. That is the point. Negligence. It is like who cares for a few animals? Animal testing labs that are supposed to be safe,clean,anti-cruel etc...have turned out to be cruelty labs where even if not desired, animals are killed because of negligence. (c)http://www.downtoearth.org... ""Also, in regard to your count of tigers in the whole world, the major reason for the small population of tigers, is hunting tigers for their skin, teeth and other features. animal testing is not the reason for close extinction heading towards animals"" Tigers for their skin, teeth and other features? Skin is nowhere to be found now,Pro. The bones are used. The bones for medicinal uses. Now, how did this theory come into being that tiger bones are medicinal? As I mentioned before, this is something that happens when animal testing is done but then stopped but people carry it on illegally. Tiger is just an example of what animal testing leads to. It inspires other individuals to carry these tests themselves for money. Animal testing is not the reason for close extinction of animals? How can one guarantee that when examples of tokay gecko and Giggles are prevalent? Animal testing leads to the high demand of animals. illegal poaching and large scale hunting of such animals occur because of money. Leading to extinction of such animals. How can we say that animal testing is perfectly safe and O.K in such a case? ""Also, it is considered that there are alternatives than using animals for testing drugs, but if this is the truth, then why aren't any alternatives used? Why are animals considered the first option? The truth is that there are no alternatives"" And from which reliable resource does such an argument come from? Of-course there are alternatives to animal testing. animals are also not the closests sample of humans. (e) Cell culture, human tissue use, Vitro modular immune. many of these are in use but this of-course are costlier than animal testing but they are used in respectable labs but as I said, not only respectable labs do these test and prefer animals for the cheapness. Animal testing is never helpful in population control. It is leading to extinction. (e)http://en.wikipedia.org... Conclusion.... I agree that animal testing is having benefits but why helpless animals should suffer when there are alternatives? Animal testing should be made illegal and banned and only alternatives should be used so that only respectable and safe labs funded by the government can carry these tests. This will not only ensure the welfare of animals and also help us find cures and save lives. Thank you."	CON	122
122	Saeeb3794-Aca4693d1	Animal Testing should be allowed	"Firstly, I thank Con, for your rebuttal, and will proceed with my own. Well, you have stated that while the food industry uses an insignificant amount of animals, it does have a breeding program, for example, farms, albeit, it is unfortunate that you have not considered the fact of breeding programs also occurring in animal testing, as proved in the 'Royal Society Publishing', written by highly qualified scientists and professors. They have stated this quote, ""We breed animals for four principal reasons: as sources of usable products or services; for medical or scientific research; for aesthetic, cultural or ethical consideration; and as pets"", proving my point of how a small amount of animals, used for medical purposes, also enables us to advance our drugs, has a breeding program, and comparing this to the food industry who, in fact, kill more than 55 billion animals per year, according to 'The Vegan Society of Peace', and yet only do this to satisfy their taste unlike finding cures for cancer, and saving millions of lives, shows that animal testing is a great thing. This proves how animal testing is far more beneficial than all of the other industries that use animals, and how despite using a small amount of animals, as mentioned before, they advance us, as humans, so much more than all the others. Do you really want to stop animal testing? Also, I believe you have failed to comprehend my other point, (as you proved by saying, ""and nothing will happen to the population of the animals?"") which elaborates on, the fact, that, if we stop animal testing, the human race could possibly wipe out; and if the human race is wiped out, the food web/chain, would be out of control, distorted, which would then allow some species to die out, eventually dying out all living creatures. Animal testing would save millions of human lives, thus continuing the human race. By all means, animals are vital for our living. I do believe that animals are affected by the activities of humans. But it is unfortunate that you are slow to realise that as a result we, as humans, have a duty of care for all living things, and animal testing is essential for animals and humans to not become extinct. Also, animals that go through animal testing are not all going through pain and suffering or death. Some tests are even as simple as seeing different wet animals shake themselves. (1) Besides, even if all testing animals died, it must be considered how this is done for the benefit of us staying alive, which as mentioned before, is a must for animals to live. Many of these animals, including mice or primates, are used to test medicines which range from stopping headaches to saving lives. Under these circumstances, would you want animals to be stopped from testing? Millions of human lives depend on bettering our medication, would you rather see millions of humans dying, or 20 rats in a laboratory? Several important medical advances have been made in the twentieth century due to the testing of non-human animals. These advances in medicine could not have happened without the use of animals as testing before releasing it to common people. It must be understood that although animal testing sounds inhumane, it does, and will continue to save lives. Also, in regard to your count of tigers in the whole world, the major reason for the small population of tigers, is hunting tigers for their skin, teeth and other features. Animal testing is the least of the reasons, albeit, the diversity of the tiger count in the whole world, is quite touching, and depressing. Anyhow, even if animal testing is stopped, people will still do this illegally, for the sake of money, albeit, animal testing is not the reason for close extinction heading towards animals, the intention for animal testing is to benefit and advance our drugs, and not to end the animal races. Also, it is considered that there are alternatives than using animals for testing drugs, but if this is the truth, then why aren't any alternatives used? Why are animals considered the first option? The truth is that there are no alternatives, and there aren't any satisfactory alternatives because animals are the closest things related to humans, and for accurate medicine results, that won't kill or harm humans, we need to test our products on other creatures, which enables us to verify if the results are positive and actually work right in the living immune system of an animal, and since we cannot test an experimental medicine on a fellow human with human rights, we must test it on the other members of the animal kingdom who have immune systems. In conclusion, animal testing is extremely beneficial for both humans and animals, if we continue animal testing, we will find new cures, and save millions of lives. Animal testing is to advance drugs, population control, and morality. (1) http://www.bbc.com.... Thank you. :)"	PRO	123
123	Sedd9358d-A82dd14b0	Meat production should be significantly reduced	"My thanks to my opponent for his brilliant response. I will endeavor to answer with equal skill and consideration. My opponent contends that (1) in arguing that a reduction in consumption in meat occur, I have necessarily argued for a reduction in production of meat and (2) that the laws of capitalism would ensure that a reduction of consumption would actually generate a reduction in production. These contentions are not necessarily true. A reduced rate of meat consumption may lead to a reduced rate of meat production for humans as a consequence of supply and demand, but in the face of a changing market there is an alternative to dissolution: adaptation. Perhaps meat production will continue unabated as a source of protein in animal foods, or for use in biology experiments, or perhaps it will become more specialized and cater to the wealthy who often have peculiar tastes (more Kobe beef). Even if it does, my call to reduce consumption would not be diminished, as I am concerned with human health and not the process of the production of meat, as my opponent is. As such, I have neither called for the reduction of production of meat, nor does capitalism necessarily imply a reduction in demand for meat (rather only a reduction in demand for that particular purpose). Additionally, my opponent seems to believe that I do not understand the difference between consumption and demand. That would make me an idiot. I do not believe I am an idiot, and much to my delight, my prior argument bears that point out. As I stated previously ""... a significant decrease in production without a correlating decrease in consumption would not reduce DEMAND but rather raise the value of meat, as the supply would no longer be sufficient to meet the DEMAND at its pre-reduction rate."" Emphasis mine. So clearly arguments my opponent makes from that point of contention were spent attacking a strawman. I am happy to burn that strawman to the ground, that we might continue our focus on the real issues of the debate. ;) As for my opponents contention that ""[p]oor people already can't afford meat such as steak so it won't affect them,"" that is actually an argument for increased production, as increasing supply over demand would lower prices and allow the poor to get their fill of meat. As such, my argument is bolstered by my opponent's contention. Furthermore, I never spoke to the dietary concerns of those who had ease in affording meat, nor did I suggest that some would be left with no meat at all. I merely stated that where demand outstripped supply, significantly, those who already had difficulty affording meat would be unable to afford the same amount as before, and would eat less, perhaps to an unhealthily low amount. I almost never argue in absolutes. As for my opponent's contention that I have not yet addressed the issue of the environmental impact of meat production, and his contention that we must consider the loss of grain that could be used to feed the world's hungry, I propose the following solution: http://en.wikipedia.org... . No feeding, no methane gas, no mess, no worries. No decrease in production. For all of these reasons, I contend that it is upon consumption of meat, and not upon production of meat, that we must focus our efforts of dissuasion. I wish my opponent well on this next and final round."	CON	124
124	Scce0600f-A706a318	Every adult in first world countries should be vegan.	"Opponent's argument are in bold and italic, mine are in plain text. ""You are excluding my brothers back in Africa and other third world countries? What if those people want to be vegan too? They have a RIGHT to choose what they eat. Saying that only first world whites should get that choice is extremely negligent and ignorant.""RonaldTrumpkin This is a separate issue and thus a red herring. The availability of medical care and food is more scare in 3rd world countries and thus complicates the issue. Testing of b-12 supplements and administrating the b-12 supplements is necessary for some individuals. I am unsure if 3rd world countries have reliable access to such testing and supplements. Of course they have a choice in what that eat. As for the last sentence that is a straw man fallacy. [4] I never mentioned the word whites in my r1 nor r2 arguments. Thus you are attacking an argument I did not make. ""Because my opponent is racist by not mentioning third world countries and refuses to even have the thought that they should have the ability to choose what to eat i will not waste my time with this f*cking idiot."" RonaldTrumpkin I wanted to exclude 3rd world countries from the debate because of the increased difficulty in receiving proper levels of b-12. You then make the same straw man argument you made in the previous round followed by an ad hominem attack. [5] Calling me an idiot is an attack to undermine me and not my argument. Finally, I indirectly referenced 3rd world countries by mentioning the enviorment. Since the enviorment affects everyone both first and third world, as seen in the documentary An Inconvenient Truth. [6] 4. http://www.fallacyfiles.org... 5. http://literarydevices.net... 6. http://www.imdb.com..."	PRO	125
125	S3471caff-Aa304dc4d	Meat, dairy, and eggs should be banned worldwide.	"Outline I. Summary of Con's arguments and flaws II. Line by line rebuttal III. Links I. Reading Con's arguments Con seems to focus on undernutrition. That meat and dairy has x, y, and z nutrients and these are essential to health. Which is true, undernutrition can cause many dilemmas. ""A form of malnutrition resulting from a reduced supply of food or from inability to digest, assimilate, and use the necessary nutrients.""[16]. ""This undernutrition starts early in life""more than a third of African children under the age of five are stunted in their growth and must face a range of physical and cognitive challenges not faced by their better-nourished peers."" [17]. ""overnutrition [-noM3;oM3;trishR42;ən] a condition of excess nutrient and energy intake over time. Overnutrition may be regarded as a form of malnutrition when it leads to morbid obesity."" [18]. When eating meat in moderation, the problem is not undernutrition but overnutrition. Overnutrition of fat, saturated fat, cholesterol, and animal proteins. [19]. There are plenty of ways to get the nutrients Con mentioned through a plant based diet, without over consumption. II. ""Their first claim was that dairy, meat and eggs are unhealthy. However, meat has a lot of proteins. Proteins are necessary for cells and overall growth of the body."" Con This statement is true. Meat has a lot of protein and the body needs a lot of protein. Yet, Pro has already proven that a person can get enough protein through a plant based diet. Con's claim is no longer relevant to the discussion. ""According to government statistics, nine out of 10 women and six out of 10 men fall short of calcium recommendations."" Con Please provide a source for these statistics Con. Pro contends its unfair for a debater not to list his or her source. Adequate calcium can be gained from a plant based diet as seen in round 2. Con's argument on undernutrition and calcium is irrelevant. ""The high-quality protein in cheese provides the body with essential building blocks for strong muscles. For a complete listing of the nutrients in cheese, see the table below."" Con Another undernutrition argument that is irrelevant. ""If you are lactose intolerant, many cheeses, particularly aged cheeses such as Cheddar and Swiss, contain little or no lactose and are often well tolerated."" Con Lactose is a sugar without fiber nor phytonutrients. Lactose therefore is unhealthy. Cheese has lots of fat, thus overnutrition. [20]. Only one cup of cheddar has 532 calories, 72% from fat and only 2% from carbs. 28g of Saturated fat. 139mg of cholesterol, that's nearly 50% of your daily cholesterol intake. Not to mention the sodium. ""For the past 30 years or so, saturated fat""""found in meats, eggs, cheese, butter, whole milk, lard and some oils""""was considered a primary cause of heart disease. New research, however, is showing that saturated fat has a minimal impact on heart disease risk, which is changing the ""saturated fat is bad"" paradigm and allowing people to enjoy more cheese and other favorite foods. Further research is needed showing significant scientific agreement."" Con Con makes a strong argument. Not strong enough though. Con gives no reference to outside sources. There are many ways to mislead information. For example, trans fat is considered to be more unhealthy than saturated fat. If the two are compared one might receive the illusion that saturated fat is healthy. Also, medium chain triglycerides saturated fat found in coconut oil tend to be much healthier than long chain triglycerides found in animal products. "" A new study suggests dietary substitution of saturated fat in the form of medium chain triglycerides (MCT) for polyunsaturated fats can prevent progression of NAFLD-associated liver injury and that MCT containing oils could be a new NAFLD therapy."" [21]. Even so, saturated fats increase LDL levels, increase blood viscosity, and gut permeability. Higher blood viscosity forces the heart to work harder. ""A diet high in saturated fat is linked to an increase in low-density lipoproteins""[22]. Saturated fat increases blood viscosity. ""Eating saturated fat has been linked to viscous blood and risk for high blood pressure, according to the World Health Organization""[23]. Gut permeability ""A single meal of meats, eggs, and dairy can cause a spike of inflammation within hours that can stiffen one""s arteries. Originally this was thought to be the result of saturated animal fat causing our gut lining to leak bacterial toxins into our blood stream leading to endotoxemia."" [24]. Con then discusses pesticides. Pesticides that are sprayed on grain that livestock eat and then the pesticides are transferred to humans via consumption of animal products. ""Their third point was that farming is cruel. However, farming is not cruel. It is true that many factory farms can be cruel to animals"" Con Factory farming is cruelty incarnate. All factory farms are cruel. Here's a video to demonstrate. [25]. ""However, the family, mom and pop farms treat animals with kindness and even respect. "" Con The mom and pop farms do not treat animals with kindness and respect. Is slavery kind or respectful? No! Is the killing of an innocent sentient being kind? No! [26]. Watch the slideshow for [26] and tell me that mom and pop farms are kind and respectful. ""Perhaps instead of completely banning animals and all animal products, we could come up with a much more radical solution. An example of which could be to lower how much we rely on factory farms."" Con Pro refuses to compromise. ""Their fourth assertion was about production agitating world hunger. He said that we should feed humans what we are feeding animals. However, lets assume it like that. We will now replace the animals in this food chain. We will eat all the grain and will the poverty issue be solved? NO!"" Con Although poverty won't be solved, a partial solution is almost always better than no solution. This is a Nirvana Fallacy on Con's part. ""8. The Nirvana Fallacy: This fallacy occurs when you reject a partial solution because it is not perfect. Obamacare doesn""t cover all Americans, but it does get most insured. It would be a Nirvana Fallacy to say, ""because it doesn""t cover all Americans, it should be rejected."" A partial fix is better than no fix; something is almost always better than nothing. ""[27]. ""Now to quickly repeat my arguments. 1. The three food are extremely healthy. 2. They help the economy 3. This plan is not feasible."" Con 1. Pro has already proven that these foods are unhealthy. 2. Yes, but morals take precedence over money. 3. How so? This isn't about feasibility, this is about morals. It might seem unfeasible to try to save every human life, yet we have to try. Pro deliberately left the implementation broad. Change doesn't have to happen overnight. Non-vegan foods could be banned slowly over the next ten to fifty years. This would give plenty of time for people to adjust. Think of incandescent light bulbs and how they are being phased out. The same could be done for meat, eggs, and dairy worldwide. Con's arguments become redundant about receiving enough calcium and vitamin D. Yogurt and bacteria. This is a good argument. In fact the best argument Pro has seen in this series of debates. Yogurt's health benefits are a lie ""We think it is one of the worst fake diet foods on the planet. There are so many foods out there that are healthier, tastier and far more filling than a tiny cup of lactose. If you are a yogurt addict wanting to drop those last five pounds, here are some things to think about next time you're in the dairy section. "" [28]. If you want bacteria they are plenty in the Earth. Bacteria are just about everywhere. In conclusion, Con has failed to make an effective counter-argument. Pro has further proved the benefits of a plant diet and adverse health effects of consuming animal products. Meat, eggs, and dairy should be banned worldwide. Vote Pro. III. Links 16. http://medical-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com... 17. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov... 18. http://medical-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com... 19. https://www.youtube.com... 20. http://nutritiondata.self.com... 21. http://www.sciencedaily.com... 22. http://www.livestrong.com... 23. http://www.theatlantic.com... 24. http://nutritionfacts.org... 25. 26. http://www.humanemyth.org... 27. https://docs.google.com... 28. http://www.huffingtonpost.com..."	PRO	126
126	S57f0866c-A3942b9f6	Humans should be vegetarians.	"I would like to start my argument by stating that my opponent failed to properly follow the rules of this debate. I specified that round 2 would include opening statements, which can be defined as introductory statements that are limited to outlining facts [1]. Therefore, any statement made by my opponent regarding lack of evidence is irrelevant. It is noted that my opponent bears a slightly unfair advantage, although I will still provide rebuttal within the evidence for my claim. 1. Meat eating and the killing of farm animals is morally incorrect. My opponent stated that assuming objective morality would require the appeal to the existence of some type of God. This statement involves religion, which serves as a very unstable argument since the existence of a God cannot be proven or disproven. Therefore, it can't be proven or disproven that God sets any moral standard. Religion is a matter of opinion, and cannot serve as a foundation of morality. Stepping away from the topic of religion, a standard of morality can be set using the authority of natural law, a body of moral principles that serves as a basis for all human actions. Natural law involves respecting animals since they contain memory and emotions, just like humans [2]. Therefore, they also possess natural rights, which are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. Murdering other animals that bear these rights is nearly equal to killing other humans. 2. Meat eating and killing animals is evolutionary incorrect. There are many ways to argue that humans aren't meant to eat meat. Humans may be natural omnivores, but this doesn't mean that it is natural to eat meat like other animals do. For example, humans don't eat raw meat, which can cause food poisoning since it contains pesticides and bacteria [3]. True meat eaters kill prey themselves and eat it raw. In order to properly digest meat, humans must disinfect it and then cook it. Humans also lack the instincts of a meat eating animal. While driving by a farm, do you look at the animals and naturally feel like killing them with your bear hands? When you kill that animal, would you want to eat it right then and there? If we were meant to eat meat, we would answer ""yes"" to both of those questions. The only instance when humans might answer ""yes"" to these questions is when we are forced by means of starvation. True meat eating animals seek and kill prey under any degree of hunger. Humans also lack traits of meat eating animals. For example, our finger nails are round, not sharp, therefore killing animals without man made objects would require time, patience, and strength depending on the animal . Our teeth are not sharp, as well, which explains why it would be difficult to chew through raw meat. Michaelbluejay.com [4] provides more examples of traits that prove humans are biologically herbivores. 3. Meat eating is unhealthy. This argument will link to the previous section regarding humans' lack of meat eating traits. Many of the world's largest fast food corporations, such as McDonalds and Burger King, distribute meat that cause humans a variety of health problems, like high blood cholesterol, obesity, heart attacks, and eventually lower life expectancies [10]. The countries with the highest obesity also tend to be countries will a great amount of fast food chains (which contain unhealthy meat). The United States, Australia, the U.K., and Canada are top 4 countries in the world in terms of the amount of McDonalds, and all of these countries are top 29 in terms of obesity [4,5]. It is true that the quality of meat distributed by these nefarious corporations is prepared poorly. However, if humans were vegetarian, poorly prepared meat would not be an issue, and less health issues would exist. Again, if humans were a natural meat eating species, unhealthy meat wouldn't result in the health issues listed before. 4. Meat eating causes pollution, deforestation, and excessive land use. This argument will provide extremely convincing evidence that the farming of animal species results in pollution, deforestation, and land use that is extravagantly wasteful considering the current issue of overpopulation. First off, trees are cut down in order to clear land for farming. A study from Stanford Univeristy shows that 80% of deforestation is used for the purpose of farming [7]. Furthermore, trees absorb CO2 by way of photosynthesis, and help reduce climate change. The increase of the world's population will eventually require humans to live in smaller spaces. For example, the extremely high population of Tokyo illustrates this concept, as most of these citizens live in high rises. Livestock farming takes up 30% of all of earth's arable land [8], and this land takes away space from humans, which causes the standard of ""overpopulation"" to be higher. Lastly, the distribution of meat emits methane and ammonia into the atmosphere, and also contaminates soil with pathogens. There is also a data that illustrates there is a correlation between commercialization of animals and the enmission of these gases [9]. I will provide my sources in the beginning of the next round. Unfortunately, I am on a mobile device and for some reason I am unable to work copy-paste. You can verify my sources in the beginning of the next round and will see that they are credible. Sorry for my untimely response and good luck in your next round."	PRO	127
127	S528d0e3f-A7d18b868	Dog Fighting Should Be Legal	"Many apologies to ThinkBig for the forfeit; weekends are too busy for me to get on DDO. Re: The Moral Status of Animals 1. The government does not recognize animal rights. My opponent completely dropped my contentions on this point. A) The vast majority of humans are not vegetarian. That means we slaughter and brutally kill animals for food when we don't have to. If we were to accept the concept of animal rights, Con would have to argue that the 98% of humans who keep meat in their diet must stop eating meat in order to be morally consistent with his proposition. This would have devastating effects on both the economy and people's health; many people rely on eating meat for convenience or due to lack of available resources. It's easy to recycle a syllogism from a textbook, but it's harder to actually argue a case that considers real world implications. Con is responsible for the latter. Con must explain how 98% of the population ought to supplement their diet effectively and in a way that counts for the economic repercussions and devastating global effects that avoiding eating meat would have. Also consider - if animal rights were upheld, we would not be able to eliminate animals in cases where they threatened our crops, homes or resources. Moreover, if animals have rights, then does a lion have the right to hunt and kill a zebra? Con would have to explain how animal rights/consent work regarding each other. B) We do animal testing that completely ignores the concept of animal rights. This has led to scientific and medicinal breakthroughs that have helped humanity significantly. If animals have rights, we have no right to use them for research. Animal testing has saved countless human and animal lives through the development of treatment and cures. Animals are appropriate research subjects because there is no adequate alternative to testing on a living, whole-body system [1]. The alternative is using human subjects which is obviously problematic, or disregarding the concept of research and developing cures all-together. That would have devastating effects and is not remotely pragmatic or arguably moral. If we accept Con's position, then it would be ethically impermissible to do research on animals for testing which is preposterous. C) Con dropped that our preferences for animals are largely dictated by culture, and that this culture gives us property rights (legal and moral dominion) over animals. We are allowed to OWN animals; they can be enslaved on our property as pets and bought and sold like commodities, thus proving our legal system does not grant animals the right to life or much else. 2. Scott Wilson's argument on the alleged moral status of animals loses ground to other arguments against animal rights. P1. A right is a claim that one party may exercise against another. P2. Rights only exist among beings who can make moral claims against one another. P3. The attributes of human beings that give rise to their ability to make moral claims against others are lacking in animals. These attributes are intellectual, and include the ability to understand ethical principles and guide one’s actions accordingly. P4. Therefore, animals cannot make moral claims against others. .: Therefore, animals do not have rights. “[Nonhuman animals] are not beings of a kind capable of exercising or responding to moral claims. Animals therefore have no rights, and they can have none… The holders of rights must have the capacity to comprehend rules of duty, governing all including themselves. In applying such rules, the holders of rights must recognize possible conflicts between what is in their own interest and what is just... Humans have such moral capabilities. They are in this sense self-legislative, are members of communities governed by moral rules, and do possess rights. Animals do not have such moral capacities. They are not morally self-legislative, cannot possibly be members of a truly moral community, and therefore cannot possess rights.” -- Carl Cohen Ergo, animals do not have moral status and thus no rights. While Con quotes Immanuel Kant in the last round, Kant did not necessarily advocate animal rights. Kant believed we should ""respect people because they are autonomous. Autonomy is the freedom that human beings have to pursue their own ends (goals). Kant believed that autonomy was extremely valuable, but in order to have it one must have free will, which requires having self-consciousness and the capacity to be guided by reason. But animals, according to Kant, are not autonomous. Therefore... we have no direct duties to animals. That is, we have no duty to respect or foster the ends of animals"" [2]. Some would argue that plants are sentient; research shows they react to stimuli and behave intentionally [3]. While the status of plant sentience is certainly questionable, I disagree with sentience alone at establishing rights which is the point. The status of personhood qualifies one for rights, which requires both sentience and other attributes. One of the clearest and most forceful denials of animal consciousness is developed by Rene Descartes, who believed that only human beings have rational minds and souls. Better yet, John Rawls' infamous standard of justice, a.k.a. The Veil of Ignorance, suggests that a just society is one in which the rules governing society would be preferable/chosen by individuals if they did not know much about themselves (age, race, sex, etc.). However these individuals would know they were not animals, so would not give special permission to animals [4]. ""Animals fight for territory or partners. They hunt, kill and eat each other. They rape, pillage and plunder at will. Humans have established official codes of conduct that prohibit such activities impinging on the 'rights' of others. While the very nature of 'humane' treatment prohibits any human-caused torture of animals, there is no such natural prohibition against torture in the animal world"" [5]. “A right is a moral principle defining and sanctioning a man's freedom of action in a social context,” wrote Ayn Rand in her essay Man's Rights. People do not 'have' rights in the sense of having a body part. Rather, rights are principles that apply to people, and that people should apply to others in society... 'The right to life is exclusively human, because rights principles only apply to and can only be applied by humans, of all the species we know of. If some other being (a space alien, perhaps, or a genetically modified earth-animal) developed sufficient rationality to grasp and apply principles, and to live by production and trade, then rights would apply to it as well'"" [6]. But until then... only humans have legal rights; at least the highest regarded rights. Re: Dog Fighting Harms the Community 1. Con argues that children who are exposed to animal cruelty have a tendency to exhibit violence later in life. You can have legal dog fighting while posing age limitations and restricting children from attendance, the same way children are prohibited from seeing violent movies. The American Psychological Association has demonstrated a link between playing violent video games and aggression [7] yet we do not ban violent games on that possibility - we simply trust children will not be exposed to those things. 2. Con claims that dog fighting is accompanied by other illegal activity. This point is moot as dog fighting is currently illegal, thus illegal activity will accompany it considering the fights are not subject to government regulation. We have legalized horse racing which involves the whipping of horses, yet we do not see illegal activity at these events because they are open to the public and monitored. On the contrary, dog fighting rings are kept secret and hidden. They are specifically run by criminals because the entire enterprise is criminal. Therefore, Con would have to prove that other crime would surround dog fighting if it were legal which he won't be able to do. That's like saying other crimes surround drug dealing. Drug dealing is an illegal enterprise! But similar crime doesn't surround liquor stores where they deal drugs (alcohol) legally. 3. Dog fighting could benefit the community if A) we stopped sending people involved in this endeavor to jail, and B) the government taxed this business an collected revenue. The same way the government collects revenue from other businesses. Conclusion Rights are civil and political concepts. They require laws, an established system of government and a justice system. Animals don't have laws. The concept of justice does not exist for them. They don't live by a moral code. They have no rights because they have no (moral) responsibilities. We can own animals like pets and pass along animals as property according to law [8]. Can dogs legally own another pet? No. Dog owner's rights trump dog's rights. We can legally ""put down"" dogs and choose to end their life on dog owner command [9]. We euthanize dogs all the time. Sometimes government agencies do it. Animals don’t reason, don’t understand rights, and don’t acknowledge or respect our rights. Further, animals are not capable of communicating consent. No aspect of rights as it pertains to government effectively apply to animals. ""Moral"" status does not apply to animals, because they cannot make moral claims against others or reason through moral claims themselves. Their behavior is dictated by natural instinct. My opponent has failed to demonstrate why dogs should morally or legally have rights. More importantly, he completely ignores all of the repercussions of acknowledging animal rights, which has negative effects pragmatically on food resources, safety, and animal testing. I have proven human rights > dog rights and that it makes no sense to criminalize dog fighting if we are perfectly okay with factory farms and other things that harm animals. SOURCES: http://www.debate.org..."	PRO	128
128	Sc42f2f40-A8f2bdecf	Abortion Should Remain Legal	Women should have the right to their own bodies, not the government. A fetus is not a human, it is a potential human. Because of that, a potential human does not have any rights.	PRO	129
129	S3471caff-A61325338	Meat, dairy, and eggs should be banned worldwide.	"Resolution: Meat, dairy, and eggs should be banned worldwide. This is a normative resolution. I Pro will contend for the resolution. Con will contend against the resolution. Meat "" the flesh of an animal used as food"" [1] Dairy ""Full Definition of DAIRY 1 : a room, building, or establishment where milk is kept and butter or cheese is made 2 a : the department of farming or of a farm that is concerned with the production of milk, butter, and cheese b : a farm devoted to such production 3 : an establishment for the sale or distribution chiefly of milk and milk products ""[2] Eggs "" the egg of a bird (especially a chicken) eaten as food""[3] Ban "" : to forbid people from using (something) : to say that something cannot be used or done : to forbid (someone) from doing or being part of something ""[4] Some have fear of a one world government. This doesn't have to be the case. Individual nations and states could ban meat, eggs, and dairy. Similar to every state seems to have traffic ordinances. Thank you for taking the time to read this debate. Links 1. http://www.merriam-webster.com... 2. http://www.merriam-webster.com... 3. http://www.merriam-webster.com... 4. http://www.merriam-webster.com..."	PRO	130
130	S1900cfd9-Ad0d62d14	Animal Abuse should be stopped	"Hi! I'd like to debate on the topic of ""Animal Abuse should be stopped"". First round: Aceept. Second to Fourth round: Argue with reasons Rules 1: Con/Against and Pro/For must provide reasons for their point of views. 2: No swear words."	PRO	131
131	S95769c7a-Aa9c699b2	Vegetarians and vegans should at least let their kids try meat out once.	I am sorry for forfeiting the last round as i was busy. And thank you for doing the same. I respect you much more now. And i am tired of repeating myself everytime. Everything im going to say to you is in the third round. Its that simple. Its up to the parents. Obviousely you are not going to let your kids have meat. But if that kid wants to have meat it is his/hers right as an american to do so. What you are saying by forcing all vegetarians/vegans to continue to do so. Also. If the worlds food supply runs out and the easiest thing to eat is a pig, cow, turkey, etc. you are saying is youd rather die than ti stay alive? Man hunted and ate meat for centuries and they didnt owe and karma debt to anybody. Meat is a naturalthing and the fact that you dont want to eat it is fine by me. But the fact that you are forcing your kid to eat none of it even if they want to is a form if torture. Seriously, if you put steak in front if me and id have to eat beans and stuff everyday because my parents told me to would be torture.	PRO	132
132	Sedd9358d-A1e2346d0	Meat production should be significantly reduced	Thank you, Lexicaholic, for accepting my debate = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = Contentions: = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = ------Meat is a very inefficient form of nutrition------ To get 500 calories of meat from the average pig, you must feed them up to five times more grain, that's 2500 calories for 500. Grain-fattened U.S. beef is even more inefficient, taking up to 10 times more grain to get the equivalent amount of meat. With a billion people worldwide under the poverty line, this is something we can't afford. We should eat grain, not meat. ------ Ranch animals make more greenhouse gases than cars ------- Clearing forested land, making and transporting fertilizer, burning fossil fuels in agricultural machinery, and the front and rear end emissions of cattle and sheep contributes 18% of the world's total greenhouse gas emissions. Climate change, a.k.a. Global Warming would have a great many adverse affects on humans, which I trust I do not have to elaborate on here. ------- Red meat and mortality ------ Eating only about four ounces of red meat per day over a period of ten years can make you 30 times as likely to develop cancer and heart disease as well as have high blood pressure and high cholesterol. -------- Meat is much more perishable than grain------- Grain and corn can be stored for a much longer time on average than meat, which almost inevitably becomes infected and decomposes from bacteria and fungi. Sources: http://en.wikipedia.org... http://www.washingtonpost.com... Most recent national geographic magazine as well	PRO	133
133	S3471caff-A7d5ce0e0	Meat, dairy, and eggs should be banned worldwide.	"Hello, ladies, gentlemen, judges my name is Forever 23 and I am here to bring forth the premise which is that we should not ban all meat, dairy and eggs. So my roadmap will include divulging 3 of my own points since the pro has introduces none. My first assertion is that meat, eggs and dairy are required to maintain a healthy diet. What kind of diet if without meat, eggs and dairy? A diet that will cause life long health and eating problems. Without eggs, meat and dairy, people will suffer due to mal nutrition. http://authoritynutrition.com... quality, unprocessed meat is among the most nutritious foods in the world. A 100 gram portion (3.5 ounces) of raw ground beef contains large amounts of Vitamin B12, B3 (Niacin), B6, Iron, Zinc, Selenium and plenty of other vitamins and minerals (5). Vitamin B12 is particularly important because it can not be gotten in ANY amount from plants. Studies show that out of vegans who don""t supplement with B12, 92% are deficient in this critical nutrient (6). Unprocessed meat is also loaded with healthy fats, but meat from grass-fed animals contains up to 5 times as much Omega-3 as meat from grain-fed animals (7, 8, 9). Milk and dairy products contain many nutrients and provide a quick and easy way of supplying these nutrients to the diet within relatively few calories. Creatine forms an energy reserve in the muscles and brain and is found only in animal foods. Vegetarians are deficient in creatine, leading to reduced physical and mental performance (10, 11, 12, 13). ""Carnosine functions as a powerful anti-oxidant and provides protection against many degenerative processes. Carnosine is only found in animal foods (14, 15, 16). ""DHA and EPA are the active forms of Omega-3 in the human body and found primarily in animal foods. The body is inefficient at converting ALA (the plant form of Omega-3) to the active forms (17, 18, 19). This is really just the tip of the iceberg. There is an immense amount of important trace nutrients in both plants and animals, some of which science has yet to uncover. http://www.milk.co.uk... Milk, cheese and yogurt all provide the following beneficial nutrients in varying quantities. ""Calcium - for healthy bones and teeth ""Phosphorous - for energy release ""Magnesium - for muscle function ""Protein - for growth and repair ""Vitamin B12 - for production of healthy cells ""Vitamin A - for good eyesight and immune function ""Zinc - for immune function ""Riboflavin - for healthy skin ""Folate - for production of healthy cells ""Vitamin C - for formation of healthy connective tissues. ""Iodine - for regulation of the body's rate of metabolism (how quickly the body burns energy and the rate. http://authoritynutrition.com... single large boiled egg contains (1): ""Vitamin A: 6% of the RDA. ""Folate: 5% of the RDA. ""Vitamin B5: 7% of the RDA. ""Vitamin B12: 9% of the RDA. ""Vitamin B2: 15% of the RDA. ""Phosphorus: 9% of the RDA. ""Selenium: 22% of the RDA. ""Eggs also contain decent amounts of Vitamin D, Vitamin E, Vitamin K, Vitamin B6, Calcium and Zinc. All of these are extremely important in order to sustain a healthy life style. Without these, people may develop eating disorders and a ban on eggs, milk and meat worldwide could lead to other consequences. My second assertion is that most of the population consumes these products. Most of the people in the world (if they have money and resources) consume meat one way or another. And as long as the majority buys meat, we can by no means ban it. In addition, there are workers and farmers relying on the meat, dairy and eggs industry. The meat and poultry industry is the largest segment of U.S. agriculture. Total meat and poultry production in 2012 reached more than 93 billion pounds. https://www.meatinstitute.org... In 2013, the meat and poultry industry processed:8.6 billion chickens 33.2 million cattle 239.4 million turkeys 2.3 million sheep and lambs 112 million hogs. In 2013, American meat companies produced:25.8 billion pounds of beef23.2 billion pounds of pork5.8 billion pounds of turkey286 million pounds of veal, lamb and mutton 38.4 billion pounds of chicken. In 2013, more than 482,100 workers were employed in the meat and poultry packing and processing industries. Their combined salaries total more than $19 billion. Through its production and distribution linkages, the meat and poultry industry impacts firms in all 509 sectors of the U.S. economy, in every state and every congressional district in the country. In all, companies involved in meat production, along with their suppliers, distributors, retailers and ancillary industries employ 6.2 million people in the U.S. with jobs that total $200 billion in wages. Through direct taxes paid, these companies and their employees provide $81.2 billion in revenues to federal, state and local governments. The consumption of meat and poultry generates $2.4 billion in state sales taxes. The meat and poultry industry's economic ripple effect generates $864.2 billion annually to the U.S. economy, or roughly 6% of the entire GDP. In 2014, meat and poultry industry sales totaled $186 billion. Stopping the meat egg and dairy industry would take the jobs of millions. Now, this is my most prominent assertion and is based on the feasibility of this topic. It is impossible to issue a world wide ban. Every single country will not agree to ban meat, dairy and eggs. Even if we are trying to reach the peak of morality here, no other nation will agree to this. According to https://www.meatinstitute.org..., there have been only 4 or 5 worldwide bans. And all of those were very detrimental to the economy and the people. Meat, dairy and eggs will never be issued. As the conclusion of each of my speeches, I will talk about the benefits of each of the foods mention. I will start with meat. In my second speech- dairy. In my third speech- eggs, So I quote directly from http://healthyeating.sfgate.com..., Protein The protein you consume each day supplies your body with a pool of amino acids, which are the building blocks of protein molecules. Your cells use these amino acids to synthesize new proteins as you need them "" for example, to build muscle tissue, manufacture antibodies or replace red blood cells. Of the 20 amino acids in proteins, your body can make 11 of them. The other nine, known as essential amino acids, must be included in the foods you eat to avoid a protein deficiency. Meat is important in your diet because it is a protein-rich food that supplies you with all the essential amino acids you need for good health. Minerals In addition to offering significant protein, meat provides a wide variety of minerals to support the optimal functioning of your cells and tissues. For instance, it is an important source of both iron and zinc. Iron helps carry oxygen to and throughout your tissues, while zinc is required for a strong immune system, wound healing and enzyme activity within your cells. The phosphorus content of meat helps keep your bones strong, the sulfur it contains can be incorporated into new amino acids and the chromium found in meat assists in metabolizing your dietary sugars. Vitamins A number of B vitamins are available from the meat you consume. Thiamine, riboflavin, niacin, pantothenic acid and biotin help your cells extract energy from the foods you eat each day. Vitamin B-6 keeps your nervous and circulatory systems healthy, and it functions in both protein synthesis and protein metabolism. This vitamin also assists in the absorption of vitamin B-12, another vitamin essential for circulatory and nerve health, as well as energy production. Meat is an especially important source of vitamin B-12, because, unlike other B vitamins, B-12 is not found in any plant-based foods. Fats Although you need a limited supply of fats in your diet for good health, the saturated fats found in meat can be detrimental to your well-being. Consuming high levels of saturated fats can increase your risk of atherosclerosis, a condition in which plaque deposits form on the walls of your arteries, and can lead to heart disease. Taking in too many dietary fats, such as from fatty cuts of meat, can result in accumulation of fat stores in and around your organs, causing eventual organ damage. High fat intake can also lead to an increased risk of obesity and diabetes. Selecting lean cuts of meat and trimming off excess fat help minimize the harmful effects of meat while allowing you to benefit from its rich nutrient content. Dear judges, if you are looking to be healthy and happy, vote pro. If you do NOT wish to suffer of health diseases. Vote pro. If you want to stay you. Vote pro. Thank you."	CON	134
134	Sefcd9117-A230f8ee4	Animals should be used for Medical Research	Who is to say animals don't have the same rights as people do? A few thousand years ago, women had absolutely no rights whatsoever (and this is still the case now in parts of the world), a few hundred years ago Blacks didn't have any rights, a few hundred years ago in the United States, only rich white land owners had rights, gays didn't have all the rights until a few decades ago, and all those people mentioned, up to a certain point had no rights to certain medical treatments. For crying out loud, dogs had more rights then some people did 100 years ago in some areas. And horses. Why are we so much better? Why are dogs and horses so much better? Who dictates who has rights and who doesn't?	CON	135
135	Se3d235e2-A69eb3019	Vegetarians are healthy due to their health-consciousness not vegetarianism.	Vegetarians are generally more health-conscious. This is the primary reason why they are healthy; it is less a cause of vegetarians avoiding meat. Similarly, obese people are obese because they are not health-conscious, more than because they are meat-eaters.	PRO	136
136	S932cc55a-Ab8e38132	Rachael Carson was an eco-terriorist who has killed millions of people so far	All disease is a consequence of vitamin deficiency and or chemical poisoning. If a parasite invades a human host, it is because the individual is undernourished and vitamin deficient. Mosquitoes will only breed if the natural predictors are eliminated from the environment. Thus, if you over hunt bats, fish and small birds and insects which prey on mosquitoes then you will have a plague of mosquitoes as a result. Using pesticide to eradicate mosquitoes is a barbaric and stupid method of reducing mosquito populations. It would be far more sensible to monitor over hunting and over population of humans which is the real cause of the mosquito infestations. A good diet of protein and vitamins would be enough to combat any micro-organism that invades the human body. The pharmaceutical industry publishes propaganda to trick people into believing that not using pesticides will result in malaria. This so that they can make lots of money from pesticide sales and not because they care about the welfare of humans.	CON	137
137	Se3d235e2-Aa1cb070a	Animals should be treated as we would want to be treated	"Christine Stevens - ""The basis of all animal rights should be the Golden Rule: we should treat them as we would wish them to treat us, were any other species in our dominant position.""["	PRO	138
138	S528d0e3f-Ace0ae5c	Dog Fighting Should Be Legal	I would like to thank my opponent for agreeing to debate this with me. Dog fighting is a type of blood sport generally defined as opposing two game dogs against one another in a ring or a pit, for the entertainment of the spectators or the gratification of the dogfighters. Please note that just because I think dog fighting should be legal, doesn't mean I think it is good. The first round will be for my contender's acceptance. I look forward to an interesting discussion.	PRO	139
139	S8287514f-A7f8aa3	animals should not be killed for any reason	Thank you Pro for your argument. How do you know for sure whether or not Animals feel pain? Whether animals can feel pain has been a theory, not a proven fact. Also, where are your sources for your arguments? Types of Pain Pain can be considered to have two components: Physical hurt or discomfort caused by injury or disease and Emotional suffering. Most people would agree that animals are capable of feeling pain according to the first definition. But it is less clear whether they also feel emotional pain. This is a theory, not a fact. Sensing damage One of the functions of pain is to warn against damage and to act as an alarm system so that action can be taken to avoid or minimize injury. This usually takes the form of a withdrawal reflex. In vertebrates, nociceptive information is collated and augmented in the brain and signals are relayed down the nervous system to alter the intensity of pain. All vertebrates possess the primitive areas of the brain to process nociceptive information, namely the medulla, and the thalamus However, one area of great importance for pain perception in humans is the cortex and its relative size decreases as we descend the evolutionary tree. For instance, in relative terms, the cortex gets smaller going from humans, through primates, mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibian and finally to fish, which possess only a rudimentary cortex. Behaviour Other animals show reflex responses similar to our own. For example, when we accidentally touch a hot iron we respond almost immediately by retracting our hand. There is a lag period following this when no adverse sensations are felt but, if left untreated, the burn begins to throb and we alter our behaviour to guard the affected area. Other animals respond to painful damage in a similar way. Their responses comprise several behavioural and physiological changes: they eat less food, their normal behaviour is disrupted, their social behaviour is suppressed and they may adopt unusual behaviour patterns (typically, highly repetitive or stereotyped behaviours, such as rocking to and fro), they may emit characteristic distress calls, and they experience respiratory and cardiovascular changes, as well as inflammation and release of stress hormones. As these responses are complex and coordinated, it is likely that the brain is involved and they are more than just simple reflexes. Although comparatively simple, fish have recently been shown to possess sensory neurons that are sensitive to damaging stimuli and are physiologically identical to human nociceptors. Fish show several responses to a painful event: they adopt guarding behaviours, become unresponsive to external stimuli and their respiration increases. These responses disappear when the fish are given morphine – evidence that they are, mechanistically at least, directly analogous to pain responses in more complex animals. Emotional pain Another theory. Humans can certainly feel pain without physical damage – after the loss of a loved one, or the break-up of a relationship, for example. Some scientists suggest that only primates and humans can feel emotional pain, as they are the only animals that have a neocortex – the ‘thinking area’ of the cortex found only in mammals. However, research has provided evidence that monkeys, dogs, cats and birds can show signs of emotional pain and display behaviours associated with depression during painful experience, i.e.. lack of motivation, lethargy, anorexia, unresponsiveness to other animals. Although modern philosophers have debated this issue, we simply do not know whether animals experience emotional pain. In his essay ‘What is it like to be a bat?’, Thomas Nagel concluded that unless we can get inside the head of an animal and actually be it, we will never know exactly how that animal feels. An important issue in animal pain is empathy, and many arguments about what animals feel have can only be based on the human experience and, therefore, may be tainted with anthropomorphism. Another argument against animals experiencing pain is the question of whether animals are conscious. Scientists have argued that no animals, except primates, are capable of feeling pain, as they are not conscious. In essence, consciousness is a sense of an awareness of how things affect me and how something feels. Whether animals are conscious, or possess some degree of consciousness, has been endlessly debated, but consciousness is such a subjective experience it is hard to define and to assess. Fish can certainly learn complicated tasks, remember approximately 40 individuals, and measure their size relative to an opponent’s to decide whether to fight them. Therefore, at the very least they must have a sense of how big they are. Higher vertebrates show even more significant signs of consciousness. Some Scientists have suggested that animals may be conscious but that this is not as developed as human consciousness. Many argue, however, that consciousness is fundamentally dependent on language, something no other animal has yet been convincingly shown to possess. In contrast, Peter Singer, a bio ethicist who has championed animal rights for many years, suggests that consciousness is not even the key issue: just because animals have smaller brains, or are ‘less conscious’ than humans, this does not mean that they are not capable of feeling pain. After all, says Singer, we do not assume that newborn infants, people suffering from neurotic brain diseases or people with learning disabilities experience less pain than we would. In practice, welfare scientists, who assess animal well being in various contexts including intensive farming, try to be unbiased and objective when monitoring behavioural and physiological responses to potentially painful events. If an animal shows the same kind of adverse reactions as humans after a painful stimulus, it is assumed that the stimulus is also painful to the animal. Inevitably, however, all welfare science on pain is essentially a interpretation based on indirect measurements. Weighing the evidence In conclusion, it is currently impossible to prove whether animals are capable of emotional pain, but it is equally impossible to disprove it. The conclusion is drawn; it is impossible to know for sure. The whole idea of animals being slaughtered is to show a sense of compassion of animals, when we certainly don't even know. Sources: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov... http://en.wikipedia.org... http://www.grandin.com... http://www.ucmp.berkeley.edu... Also, a question for Pro, whenever we kill a fly, mosquito, Etc; do they feel pain? They are animals also, right?	CON	140
140	Sc42f2f40-A6a393772	Abortion Should Remain Legal	'The validity of the abortion right therefore stems from the right of an individual (the mother), who is certainly a fully conscious human being, to prevent harm to herself' The prevention of harm to the woman is not the only reason for abortion, an abortion could be used for other reasons such as birth control, the prevention of a fetus with deformities from having a life of suffering, among other reasons. 'In an age where prophylactics are common and readily available, and a simple pill can prevent pregnancy before the development of the fetus, it is monstrous to needlessly engage in a behavior that threatens even the potentiality of human life.' An abortion could be necessary when it is too late to use other methods of birth control. And it doesn't make sense to say that women will always get an abortion instead of using other methods of birth control earlier. A woman will realize that it is easier to use protection opposed to not and always having to get abortions. 'The potential citizen may, in fact, qualify as a citizen when a fetus, but it is impossible to determine' It is not possible to determine? Do you consider sperm to be human? Many people let millions of sperm die every day, but that will never be illegal. Some people think that a fetus becomes human when it can survive outside of the body. Some people think it becomes a human after it leaves the body. There can be many points when a fetus could be considered human, but the moment of conception is certainly not one of them. The moment of conception merely creates a cluster of cells that is incapable of thinking, showing emotion, of being conscious. A woman can choose where to draw the line of when the fetus is human, making abortion illegal is not the solution. 'Someday, a method could be developed to safely and easily excise the child from the mother and continue the child's development outside of her womb' That may be true, but that 'someday' hasn't happened yet. For now, abortion must remain legal. Other Reasons for Abortion A woman may want to get an abortion because she can't pay for the child. Would you want to be paying with your tax dollars for those unplanned children? Also, would you really deny a rape victim from having an abortion? Would you expect her to care for a baby she didn't ask for, have to endure 9 months of pregnancy and labor, and have that baby as a reminder of the incident and that the child carries the genes of a rapist? Also, it shouldn't only be for a rape victim, there are other woman who don't want to carry that fetus around for 9 months that is an accident that a lot of parents would love less than a planned child. And think of all the unplanned children adding to the population that is already starting to overcrowd, and how a kid would react if they found out that they were an accident.	PRO	141
141	Sedd9358d-Af9e9aa6f	Meat production should be significantly reduced	"I thank my opponent for his astounding lucidity during the course of this debate. It has been superb. Pleasantries aside, I submit my final argument against the reduction of the production of meat: 1. While I am fully aware that the resolution was that ""meat production should be significantly reduced"" and not that ""meat production for human use should be significantly reduced,"" my opponent's rationale for reducing meat production came in the form of three arguments, spanning two objectives: the improvement of human health and the improvement of the environment. My opponent, as the Pro side of this debate, has the burden of showing that the objective related benefits obtained by implementing the resolution would outweigh any negative impact of its implementation, and that there is no more effective method of meeting the goals of these objectives. I have no affirmative burden as Con to prove up consumption, and may limit the discussion to human consumption if that is an area where I find weakness in the resolution. There is no need to ""inform"" my opponent of anything. He must deal with any argument that can be reasonably made before he can expect his resolution to be implemented. I this case, I chose to use consumption as a better alternative, and focused on reducing human consumption in particular to meet the first objective relating to human health. Therefore my opponent's argument that I do not meet a broad enough definition of consumption in the scope of my counter-argument is irrelevant. While I am trying to prove that we should dissuade consumption, I do not need to do so to win this debate. I merely need to show a weakness in my opponent's resolution, which I do by limiting the scope of my argument to the more discrete act of human consumption. If my opponent would like to get very picky, I mean human personal and commercial consumption for human ingestion (lest any argue that my definition cover the use of raw meat as a bodily salve, toy, or artistic medium). I do this to refute my opponent's contention that reduced production is necessary to alleviate health issues derived from the consumption of meat. My opponent does not debate that the reduction of consumption would not meet this end because he can not. My opponent's argument is therefore refuted. Note also that my opponent did not define meat production. Therefore, I must interpret it as all meat production, of which that used to meet human consumption for ingestion is only one part (although a significant one). Additionally, while I did not define consumption as human consumption for purposes of ingestion in my debate, I also did not argue for the elimination of consumption, but rather a reduction in it. Because human consumption for purposes of ingestion is a large subset of overall consumption, a reduction in it (as a subset) amounts to reduction in the super set that is consumption. Adaptation of production would occur, in the scope of my argument, to encourage the other or alternative methods of consumption, thereby returning the super set, and as a consequence, demand, to its original size. My opponent's argument that I can not argue for a reduction in human consumption for ingestion, and thereby consumption, while arguing that consumption can remain large enough to keep demand the same is therefore shown to be inaccurate, in that demand can temporarily decrease until new markets are found to increase consumption and thereby demand. This could result in temporary job displacement, but compare this to my opponent's resolution, which would reduce meat production, I would assume indefinitely from the resolution and argument made thus far, resulting in permanent job loss. My opponent therefore does not prove that his approach would be more beneficial in relation to the objective of improving human health, because the cost would be a greater increase in unemployment over a longer period of time and there exists a better way to accomplish the same end, namely encouraging reduced consumption (by humans, directly, for ingestion). 2. I did not ""switch tactics"" when I proposed that my opponent had made an argument lending itself to support meat production, in that I was not advocating for an increase in meat consumption. Rather I was arguing against my opponent's contention that a reduction in meat production would not affect poor people adversely because they would not eat much meat anyway. Once again my opponent mistakes the aim of this debate. I do not need to positively resolve to anything; my opponent bears the burden of proving that the implementation of his resolution would have more of a positive impact than a negative one. This argument was not to suggest that I suddenly found the idea of meat consumption valid, but rather that his own argument in regards to consumption rates relative to a reduced supply was invalid. Which it was and remains. 3. Finally my opponent argues that the environmental impact of meat production as it stands right now is too great to be allowed to continue, and that all of the alternatives I have provided are insufficient to meet the concerns generated by the industry, namely ""18% of the world's total greenhouse gas emissions."" Debating this theoretically would take me forever, and I am low on space, so I will merely cite every source I can find disagreeing with Pro's analysis. It should be painfully obvious, however, how growing meat in a vat would reduce greenhouse gases resulting from ""clearing forested land, making and transporting fertilizer, burning fossil fuels in agricultural machinery, and the front and rear end emissions of cattle and sheep."" If my opponent argues that the food would cost more, well, that just reduces consumption, doesn't it? At least, until better technology comes along and makes it available to all. For support for in vitro meat growth see: http://www.newsdesk.umd.edu... , http://www.slate.com... , http://www.vatfood.com... , http://www.theecologist.org... . Please note that even PETA is getting behind this. That's right, PETA wants you to eat meat (at least, this meat)! Keep in mind that reduction of meat production would result in a massive job loss. I'm convinced that allowing this technology time to develop will help naturally streamline the meat production industry into a productive, employee and environmentally friendly future. It is now up to you to decide how we will proceed, dear voters. On the one hand is the call for the authoritarian hand of the zealot to slam down on the stop production button in the interests of human health and environmental welfare. On the other is the call for the liberal application of human reason to advance meat production so that the danger to the environment is reduced, and for the appreciation of personal autonomy, for others to choose to limit their own consumption of meat, or not, as they decide for their own health. A little patience is all we need to see a better, brighter future through. So for our jobs, and our future, for our environment and human welfare, and out of respect for the personal choices of others, I urge you to vote against the resolution that meat production should be significantly reduced. Like Heinz ketchup on a hamburger, it's worth the wait."	CON	142
142	S3471caff-A3e3569ae	Meat, dairy, and eggs should be banned worldwide.	"Pro will devote this round solely to rebuttal of Con's arguments. ""However, it is not about what you eat. Its about how much you eat. If someone stuffed themselves full with vegetables, they would gain a lot of weight. "" Con Obesity is more complicated than energy balance. Calories gained - calories spent is not the sole contributor to weight gain and loss. Fiber and zero calorie soft drinks are the exceptions. Ever hear about how celery is zero calories due to the fiber? Fiber is partially digested by the body. Meaning there is less calories in fiber than the label would have you believe. Fiber helps a person lose weight. ""The same portion of celery contains about 1 gram of total carbohydrates -- including 0.6 grams of fiber. Fiber isn't fully digested or absorbed by your body, according to the University of Massachusetts."" [29] Fiber ""A recent study found that people who added more of it to their diets -- without changing anything else -- lost almost as much weight as people who followed the heart-healthy, low-fat eating plan recommended by the American Heart Association."" [30]. ""A new study published in the Journal of the American Geriatrics Society found that people who drank diet soda gained almost triple the abdominal fat over nine years as those who didn""t drink diet soda."" [31]. Weight gain and loss is more complicated then calories in versus calories out. Fiber and diet soda are two exceptions. Con does have a point, if you eat 6000+ calories a day you will gain weight. ""But B12 is just the tip of the iceberg"" there are other lesser known nutrients that are only found in animal foods and are critical for optimal function of the body."" Con There are doctors to help a person monitor his or her nutrition on a vegan diet. Multivitamins and other supplements are available too. ""Animal protein contains all the essential amino acids in the right ratios. It is important for muscle mass and bone health, to name a few. Vegans don""t get any animal protein, which can have negative effects on body composition."" Con Con has provided no proof that zero animal protein intake will lead to adverse body composition. A person eating vegan can receive plenty of protein on a vegan diet. Consuming animal protein increases IGF-1 production by the liver. Elevated IGF-1 levels increases cancer risk. ""To start with, many of the foods that vegans eat a lot of have major negative ecological impact (think soy and grains)."" Con It takes more grain to feed animals and then to eat the animal as opposed to grain alone. This is a Pro argument. "" The reality is, any time you eat a food that is farmed on a large scale, you are complicit in a huge number of animal deaths that happen during the harvesting process. The industry refers to these as ""tractor kills"" and the animals are typically rodents and other small creatures. "" Con Con is correct that animals are killed during harvesting. Informed vegans know of this and follow the principle of least harm. From this chart you can see that eating chicken and eggs contributes the most to animal deaths and fruits, vegetables, and grains the least. ""Figure 1: A diet of plants causes the fewest animals to be killed. Leaving chickens and eggs out of our diets will have the greatest effect on reducing the suffering and death caused by what we eat. "" [32]. Nobody is completely innocent, yet eating vegan causes less animal deaths. ""On the other hand, if you ate local grass-fed, grass-finished beef every day for a year, you'd be responsible for killing about 2/3 of an animal."" Con See slaughtering the amazon. From an earlier round. ""The cattle sector in the Brazilian Amazon is the largest driver of deforestation in the world, responsible for one in every eight hectares destroyed globally. Efforts to halt global deforestation emissions must tackle this sector. ""[6]. Free roaming cattle take so many acreage to graze that forests need to be cleared to support these cattle. Intensive grain farming may kill more animals in harvest than free roaming cattle. What about the animals in the forest before it was cleared? What about the environment? There simply isn't enough acreage for everyone to eat grass-fed beef. ""However, it will help hunger by 0%. World hunger is not caused by the lack of food."" Con There is only so much usable land. Right now some of the land in third world countries are used for grain and exported to feed to livestock. The livestock will be eaten by 1st world countries. What about in the future? Won't there be even more demand for food in the future? Finally, raising livestock in factory farms is water intensive. Water shortages are a factor. ""PASADENA, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--In an article for the quarterly journal Vision titled ""What Shall We Eat and Drink?"" publisher and international relations scholar David Hulme discusses the global issues of world hunger and water security. Slicing through the Gordian Knot of current events and politics, Hulme explores the complex factors relating to food shortages and the building water crisis."" [33]. ""They refuted that by saying that this will not happen overnight. That was never my point. My point was that we are ominivores. And NO COUNTRY WILL AGREE TO TAKE MEAT OUT OF THE DIET."" Con Humans are omnivores, yet are healthier on a vegan diet. This is not about if countries will agree or not, its about whether or not they should agree or not. ""The also mentioned as refutation for my yogurt argument that yogurt good bacteria can be found everywhere. However, I figure it is needless to explain that yogurt has special becteria which can only be found in dairy."" Con Along with all the adverse effects of dairy, including lactose and animal protein. Not to mention the animal cruelty factor. ""Now allow me to introduce the argument about the right to body. Everybody has the right to do whatever they want with their body and health. http://www.amnestyusa.org...... We all have the right to make decisions about our own health, body, sexuality and reproductive life, without fear, coercion, violence or discrimination. But all over the world, people's freedom to make these decisions is controlled by the state, medical professionals, even their own families. Criminal law and punitive sanctions are frequently used to control such choices. In the end, many people are prevented from making any choice at all."" Con Pro believes in freedom, yet not in drunk driving. When a person decides to eat and drink a certain way, these actions affect others. Why should an animal abuser be protected from the law, and not the animal? If an animal lover tries to stop the abuser, the cruel person can hide behind the law. How would you like it if your next door neighbor yelled a lot and played music really loud at all hours, 24/7? Freedom is nice, but there are other values. Like kindness, compassion, empathy, and justice. Meat, dairy, and eggs should be banned worldwide. Vote Pro. Links 29. http://www.fitday.com... 30. http://www.webmd.com... 31. http://time.com... 32. http://www.animalvisuals.org... 33. http://www.businesswire.com..."	PRO	143
143	Scce0600f-A1822cea2	Every adult in first world countries should be vegan.	Because my opponent is racist by not mentioning third world countries and refuses to even have the thought that they should have the ability to choose what to eat i will not waste my time with this f*cking idiot.	CON	144
144	S8ccad7c0-A55f327e6	As Long as we Continue to Eat Meat, Beastiality should be Legalized!	"First, one would have to prove that the act of having intercourse or other sexual activity with another specie is, in fact, cruel. For if the animal has not experienced pain and/or suffering while in a sexual act with a human, surely one would agree that beastiality is not cruel. Therefore, if animals are not subjected to inhumane treatment then there is no premise for outlawing beastiality. One can reach a conclusion that the treatment of animals at slaughterhouses is more unethically justified than beastiality. In the natural world, sexual contact between other species is not, in many cases, a mutual act. Also, it is natural for the submissive animal to give in to the dominant animal's sexual advances. The animals show no sign of pain and/or suffering during the act of animal on animal sexual contact. The submissive animal might experience slight discomfort, but one can agree that this is not a cruel act performed by the other, more dominant animal. Also, if the submissive animal shows signs of sexual arousal and/or pleasure, this can conclude that the receiving animal is actually experiencing pleasure vs. pain. It can be argued that beastiality does not inflict pain and/or suffering on animals and also that those animals may experience pleasure. Therefore, can't one reach the conclusion that the treatment of animals at slaughterhouses is ultimately more cruel and inhumane than having sexual intercourse with another specie that may be able to experience sexual pleasure? My opponent states, ""How awful. Though I find animals quite delicious and do not value their lives at all, I don't think they should be treated in such a horrible manner. However, this has nothing to do with beastiality."" My opponent states that he does not ""value their lives at all."" But concludes, ""they should not be treated in such a horrible manner."" My opponent has obviously placed value on their lives if he is concerned with the treatment of animals at slaughterhouses. My opponent cannot argue that the treatment of animals at slaughterhouses ""has nothing to do with beastiality."" For the treatment of animals encompasses the question of whether or not beastiality should be legal. My opponent poses a question, ""Is it a contradiction that society condones the slaughter of animals for food but condemns beastiality?"" His response, ""Maybe..."" The question my opponent raises, is the very question I would like the readers to examine. Human morality is obviously flawed if we can condone the slaughter of animals, because, as my opponent suggests, they taste "" quite delicious."" But, on the other hand, condemn beastiality. Which does not nearly inflict, to the same degree, pain and/or suffering on animals. And which can also be argued that animals may experience pleasure. Beastiality is condemned in our society, not necessarily because we care about the treatment of animals, but because of the stigmatized view of beastiality. In his essay, ""Animal Lovers: Zoophiles Make Scientist Rethink Human Sexuality."" Research Psychologist, Jesse Bering writes, ""Words like ""pervert"" and ""unnatural"" have all the theoretical depth of a thimble. Rationally, Singer is right to question our visceral aversion to interspecies sex. And having had an orangutan rudely thrust his penis into my ear, a chimpanzee in estrus forcibly back her swollen anogenital region into my midsection (""Darling,"" I said, ""not only are you the wrong species, but the wrong sex""), and more dogs than I care to mention mount my leg, I know that it's not only humans who are at risk of misreading sexual interest in other species. The Arabian stallion that impaled a Seattle man with its erect penis in 2005, fatally perforating the man's colon, makes one wonder who the victim really was."" Jesse Bering goes on to write, ""As you can probably imagine, though, the subject of zoophilia is a highly charged one, attracting the ire of animal rights groups such as People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) and causing a knee-jerk moralistic response in the rest of us platonic animal lovers. Ironically, it landed one prominent animal rights defender, Princeton philosopher Peter Singer, who authored the classic book Animal Liberation in 1975, in some hot water. Ten years ago, in an essay for Nerve magazine called ""Heavy Petting,"" Singer was asked to review the book Dearest Pet (Verso, 2000) by Dutch biologist Midas Dekkers. But he did more than just review the book. As a professor of bioethics, Singer also asked readers to reconsider whether humans' having mutually pleasurable, nonabusive sex with other animals is as inherently wrong as we've been lead to believe by our traditional Judeo-Christian mores (go on, quote Leviticus)."" ""The vehemence with which this prohibition [against sex with other species] continues to be held, its persistence while other non-reproductive sexual acts have become acceptable, suggests that there is [a] powerful force at work: our desire to differentiate ourselves, erotically and in every other way, from animals."" Jesse Bering concludes that we are, in fact, part of the animal kingdom. He states, ""Singer told me recently that he wasn't advocating sex with animals in ""Heavy Petting,"" but rather just raising the question of why we find it so objectionable. Ever since, however, the piece has been used unfairly against Singer by his opponents, most of whom are trying to discredit his controversial views on human euthanasia and abortion: ""Look,"" argue many of Singer's critics, ""how can we take anything this guy says seriously when he wants us to have sex with animals!"" But most zoophiles, of course, tend to agree with Singer's general assessment of human ""speciesism"" being cloaked under the tenuous justification of animal protection. After all, we are animals."" This can lead one to question society's prevailing view of beastiality and whether we are justified in continuing its condemnation and/or legalization? If an animal shows no signs of pain and/or suffering and there is a genuine mutual love between animal and human, can one agree that (while this may be abnormal human behavior) it is not as unethical as the treatment of animals confined to slaughterhouses."	PRO	145
145	S528d0e3f-Ab0a1e71d	Dog Fighting Should Be Legal	"I would once again like to thank Danielle for her challenge and for her opening arguments. I will begin by presenting my opening statements. ---My case--- Contention 1: The moral status of animals Although this debate is not on the morality of dog fighting, ethics and law are absolutely connected. I will argue in this contention that animals are sentimental beings with rights that the government ought to protect, and because dog fighting inherently violates such a right, then it ought to be illegal. According to utilitarian philosophy, any being that has an interest in not suffering deserves to have that taken into an account.[1] “When you pity a suffering animal, it is because you are perceiving a reason, a reason to change its conditions. And you can no more hear the cries of an animal as a mere noise that you can the words of a person. Another animal can obligate you in exactly the same way another person can…So of course we have obligations to animals.”[2] So to put everything together in syllogism form, we get this (from Scott D. Wilson): (1) If a being is sentient, then it has a direct moral status. (2) (Most) animals are sentiment. (3) Therefore, (most) animals have direct moral status.[3] “""Sentience"" refers to the capacity to experience episodes of positively or negatively valenced awareness. Examples of positively valenced episodes of awareness are pleasure, joy, elation, and contentment. Examples of negatively valenced episodes of awareness are pain, suffering, depression, and anxiety.” [Ibid] Because animals have a direct moral status, they therefore have certain rights and can be wronged. Since dog fighting is a violation of an animal’s right and wellbeing, the government has a duty to protect the animal. I will elaborate more on this contention in the next round. Contention 2: Dog fighting harms the community A) Psychology In Lectures in Ethics, Immanuel Kant famously stated: “If a man shoots his dog because the animal is no longer capable of service, he does not fail in his duty to the dog, for the dog cannot judge, but his act is inhuman and damages in himself that humanity which it is his duty to show towards mankind. If he is not to stifle his human feelings, he must practice kindness towards animals, for he who is cruel to animals becomes hard also in his dealings with men.”[4] Indeed, psychologists and researchers have confirmed Kant’s statement. Researchers have found that children who are exposed to animal cruelty and dog fighting are far more likely to commit crimes and domestic abuse later in life.[5] B) Other crimes Law enforcement officers and researchers have noted that dog fighting is often associated with many other crimes as well including illegal drugs, illegal guns, and homicide. Indeed, as one Ohio state detective notes: ""We've busted rings run by black, Latino, Aryan, Asian and Russian gangs. The common thread is they're always - always - gang-related. A lot of times you can get more drugs and guns off the street by breaking up dog rings than you would breaking up drug rings. ""It's a community menace in so many ways. If dogs don't show 'gameness,' they're either killed outright or let loose on the streets where they become a menace to everybody. They're trained to survive by doing whatever it takes.""[6] ---Danielle’s Case--- I am surprised and a bit disappointed in Danielle’s arguments. Danielle’s arguments are nothing more than non sequiturs and red herrings that have nothing to do with the debate topic. Since I am out of time, I will rebut her opening statements in depth in the next round. For now, I believe I have made a very solid case. Conclusion I have shown that Danielle’s arguments are largely irrelevant to the debate topic. I have shown that animals do have rights that the government ought to protect and that dog fighting is harmful to the community. Although Danielle has the burden of proof, I have given several good reasons as to why the government ought to keep dog fighting illegal. For these reasons, the resolution is soundly rejected. [1] Gruen, Lori, ""The Moral Status of Animals"", The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Fall 2014 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.) http://plato.stanford.edu... [2]Korsgaard, C., 1996, The Sources of Normativity, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. http://tannerlectures.utah.edu... [3] Wilson, Scott D. ""Animals and Ethics."" Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Wright State University, n.d. Web. 07 June 2016. http://www.iep.utm.edu... [4]Kant, I. Lectures on Ethics, translated and edited by P. Heath and J.B. Schneewind, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1997. http://ebooks.cambridge.org... [5] http://nationallinkcoalition.org... [6] http://www.nydailynews.com..."	CON	146
146	S1900cfd9-Ae4538b19	Animal Abuse should be stopped	"Objects- A material or thing that can be seen and touched but Not Living. Animals- a living organism that feeds on organic matter, typically having specialised sense organs and nervous system and able to respond rapidly to stimuli. ""My opponent has not shown why Animals are not Objects and are Equal to Humans."" Well animals are not objects because they are LIVING. Humans are also considered animals. In this case, WE are equal to ANIMALS. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Crimes of abuse and murder can start from abusing. Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and Northeastern University says, ""animal abusers are five times more likely to commit violent crimes against people and four times more likely to commit property crimes than are individuals without a history of animal abuse"". Example Carroll Edward Cole was a West Coast serial killer who may have murdered as many as 35 women in the 1970s, and was executed in 1985. Based on Cole's testimony, his first violent act was strangling a puppy. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- If these crimes happen, isn't it better to stop Animal Cruelty?"	PRO	147
147	S42c351d0-A4765d339	Children in the US should be exposed and encouraged to eat insects	Thank you for your clear definitions on the following words, which will be a great help to me as well as the community. I shall continue with my argument. The USA is a modern country with heavily urbanized cities, as well as farms supporting these cities. While third world countries are sadly having problems such as overpopulation as well as food shortages, it is the opposite in the US. The US has the highest percentage of obese people, which clearly shows that most of the people, if not all, have more than enough, which they could had donated to the more needy. With the vast amount of food resources existent in the US, it is not needed for the cultivation or import of worms or insects for consumption. Secondly, while I agree that worms and insects do have a very high nutritional value, due to the high standards of food in the US, there are very few people that are willing to eat worms and insects for the sake of nutrition, as there are foods, while not as nutritious as worms or insects, they are much more considered as proper foods to the American people. If adults themselves do not even have the courage to eat worms and insects which are considered revolting to them, what would the overwhelming majority of the American children think about eating such an unaccustomed meal? Even foodstuff that have a small percentage of nutrients from worms and insects are shunned at first sight. Unfortunately, while scientifically worms and insects are proved to have a high nutritional value, the American people are now used to foods that are both delicious whether nutritious or not, and though I too would prefer that US children would try such foods as an everyday diet, but it is not possible at all. Not in this day and age.	CON	148
148	Scce0600f-Aa6ce8c9a	Every adult in first world countries should be vegan.	Structure 1st round brief statement of position and acceptance. 2nd round main argument 3rd round rebuttals 4th round defend your r2 argument against opponent's r3 rebuttal. Thanks for accepting this debate. I will be arguing that every adult in first world countries should be vegan. Exceptions, rare medical conditions, extraordinary circumstances, and lab grown meat. Examples of extraordinary circumstances would be stuck on a desert island or in an elevator shaft. 1. http://prime.peta.org...	PRO	149
149	Sabf80b24-A528b7da8	Antibiotics should be heavily restricted.	"Thanks to my opponent for clarifying his argument and providing the meat of his side in this debate, and now it's time to dig in! I'd like to start by pointing out that both of my arguments go dropped in this round. I'll get into why they matter over the course of my responses. Pro talks about how prescriptions should determine who gets to take antibiotics. I agree, and this is why most antibiotics are prescription only. A few ""natural"" antibiotics are over the counter,[1] but as they're not fungal-derived, the resistance they engender doesn't affect the majority of available antibiotics. More importantly, my argument about how doctors prescribe antibiotics to treat viral infections stands showcases the problem with letting doctors have free reign to decide what is prescribed. As Pro hasn't outlined any restrictions on their practices, the harms continue, but they even get worse since now everyone's going to rely on seeing a doctor about any infection instead of pursuing over the counter meds. Pro talks about animals being given them. Again, I agree, though if you deny farmers access to them, they will simply pursue other methods, such as steroids and hormones, to beef up their herds. This will only make things worse. We know they're cancer threats, but it's also got a wide swath of uncertainties, with many possible deleterious health outcomes for humans and cattle.[2] Lastly, overuse. Interesting that he cites mayoclinic.org, a link very close to the one I used, but doesn't appear to have read it thoroughly. There's no mention of overuse, just misuse, which often results when patients stop taking their meds early (or being prescribed them for viral infections). High concentrations of antibiotic are actually far more likely to kill even a resistant bacteria.[3] 1. http://medsnoprescriptiononline.com... 2. http://www.phschool.com... 3. http://www.pnas.org... Good debate."	CON	150
150	Sabf80b24-A9d7455ae	Antibiotics should be heavily restricted.	"Well, I'm still lost on the parameters, so I guess I'll have to set them. ""Antibiotics should be heavily restricted."" We don't know who is going to be doing the restricting here, and we don't know what ""heavily"" means in this context. I'll try to be fair about this. Health organizations would probably be the ones to implement this, restricting doctors to using a limited amount of antibiotics per patient, since the concern seems to be overuse rather than use. As for heavily, this means doctors could only provide short doses of antibiotics to patients, restricting duration to the minimum time required to kill the bacteria. Now that that's out of the way, I'll start with rebuttal. Pro starts with an anecdote. While I'm sure Mark's death was painful, I feel you've pegged the problem that led to it wrongly. In fact, as you get into statistics, it becomes quite clear that you have. The problem isn't that antibiotics are overused for bacterial pathogens - it's that they're prescribed incorrectly and misused by the patients. It's interesting that Pro talks about viruses, because you know what can't be cured by antibiotics? Viruses! And yet, doctors prescribe for them all the time, normally as a method to make patients feel like they're getting care for diseases that will go away on their own. This isn't about overuse by any single patient, it's about doctors prescribing to patients who overtly don't need them.[1] These patients are more likely to have disrupted gut flora and get dangerous infections like Clostridium difficile. Pro's mentality wouldn't prevent these.[2] Also, patients partially cause this. Not taking the medication as prescribed (i.e. stopping early) often leads to drug resistance.[3] And since Pro is likely going to stop them as early as possible, he's creating more, not less, resistance. Back to Pro. 1. http://www.cdc.gov... 2. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov... 3. www.mayoclinic.org/antibiotics/art-2004572"	CON	151
151	S3471caff-Aebf3a44b	Meat, dairy, and eggs should be banned worldwide.	"Hello ladies, gentlemen, judges I am Forever 23 and I am on the behalf of the premise which is that we CAN NOT ban eggs, dairy and milk worldwide. So allow me to first refute my opponents claims and then rebuild on my own points. Their first claim was that dairy, meat and eggs are unhealthy. However, meat has a lot of proteins. Proteins are necessary for cells and overall growth of the body. http://www.healthyeating.org... Cheese contains a host of nutrients like calcium, protein, phosphorus, zinc, vitamin A and vitamin B12. Calcium is one of the nutrients most likely to be lacking in the American diet. According to government statistics, nine out of 10 women and six out of 10 men fall short of calcium recommendations. The high-quality protein in cheese provides the body with essential building blocks for strong muscles. For a complete listing of the nutrients in cheese, see the table below. If you are lactose intolerant, many cheeses, particularly aged cheeses such as Cheddar and Swiss, contain little or no lactose and are often well tolerated. For the past 30 years or so, saturated fat""""found in meats, eggs, cheese, butter, whole milk, lard and some oils""""was considered a primary cause of heart disease. New research, however, is showing that saturated fat has a minimal impact on heart disease risk, which is changing the ""saturated fat is bad"" paradigm and allowing people to enjoy more cheese and other favorite foods. Further research is needed showing significant scientific agreement. Even if saturated fat is less of a concern, calories still matter. To reduce calories, you can grate or sprinkle harder cheeses over your dishes or use small amounts of aromatic and sharp cheeses for their delicious cheese flavor. Many reduced-fat varieties of cheeses are also available. This 2014 article in the Food and Nutrition Magazine provides more information on the Charms and Challenges of Cheese. The 2010 Dietary Guidelines for Americans recommend that individuals ages 9 and older consume at least 3 servings of milk, cheese or yogurt each day; children aged 4-8 years need 2-1/2 cups per day. One serving of cheese is one and one-half ounces of hard cheese, one-third cup for grated cheese and two ounces for processed cheese. Their second claim was that meat dairy and eggs productions are unhealthy for the environment. However, cars are too! Do you see a ban on cars? No. But to get more topical, lets go over on the unhealthy production of vegetables and different herbs. I am sure that you know that pesticides are used to grow vegetables and fruits. http://www.toxicsaction.org... When Rachel Carson wrote Silent Spring in 1962, she raised public awareness about the effects of pesticide use on our health and our environment. However, almost forty years after Carson drew attention to the health and environmental impacts of DDT, use of equally hazardous pesticides has only increased. And all the time there is more evidence surfacing that human exposure to pesticides is linked to health problems. For example, in May 2010, scientists from the University of Montreal and Harvard University released a study that found that exposure to pesticide residues on vegetables and fruit may double a child’s risk of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), a condition that can cause inattention, hyperactivity, and impulsivity in children. Acute dangers - such as nerve, skin, and eye irritation and damage, headaches, dizziness, nausea, fatigue, and systemic poisoning - can sometimes be dramatic, and even occasionally fatal. Chronic health effects may occur years after even minimal exposure to pesticides in the environment, or result from the pesticide residues which we ingest through our food and water. A July 2007 study conducted by researchers at the Public Health Institute, the California Department of Health Services, and the UC Berkeley School of Public Health found a sixfold increase in risk factor for autism spectrum disorders (ASD) for children of women who were exposed to organochlorine pesticides. Pesticides can cause many types of cancer in humans. Some of the most prevalent forms include leukemia, non-Hodgkins lymphoma, brain, bone, breast, ovarian, prostate, testicular and liver cancers. In February 2009, the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry published a study that found that children who live in homes where their parents use pesticides are twice as likely to develop brain cancer versus those that live in residences in which no pesticides are used. Studies by the National Cancer Institute found that American farmers, who in most respects are healthier than the population at large, had startling incidences of leukemia, Hodgkins disease, non-Hodgkins lymphoma, and many other forms of cancer. However, the pro doesn't just want to starve the planet... I wonder why? So judges, you should really consider how illogical it would be to ban the production of all meat, dairy and eggs. Their third point was that farming is cruel. However, farming is not cruel. It is true that many factory farms can be cruel to animals. However, the family, mom and pop farms treat animals with kindness and even respect. Perhaps instead of completely banning animals and all animal products, we could come up with a much more radical solution. An example of which could be to lower how much we rely on factory farms. Their fourth assertion was about production agitating world hunger. He said that we should feed humans what we are feeding animals. However, lets assume it like that. We will now replace the animals in this food chain. We will eat all the grain and will the poverty issue be solved? NO! Now to quickly repeat my arguments. 1. The three food are extremely healthy. 2. They help the economy 3. This plan is not feasible. Now, as promised in my last speech, I will point out the health factor of each category. Second up, we have dairy. http://www.healthyeating.org... ""Milk and dairy foods are healthy foods and considered nutrient-rich because they serve as good sources of calcium and vitamin D as well as protein and other essential nutrients. They provide phosphorus, potassium, magnesium, and vitamins A, B12, and riboflavin1. The calcium in milk, yogurt, and cheese is significant yet most people don't get enough calcium or vitamin D each day2. Getting the recommended three servings of dairy per day can help build bone mass, leading to improved bone health throughout the life cycle. To meet daily calcium requirements, most people should have two to three cups of milk or servings of dairy foods each day. There are many ways to ensure you are eating healthy and getting enough milk and milk products each day. Start with a healthy breakfast of cereal, milk and fruit or a yogurt parfait, include cheese in your lunch or afternoon snack and consider pudding or hot chocolate made with milk as an evening dessert. To learn more about the amounts of food to eat each day, use the Healthy Eating Planner. Some Key Benefits of Dairy Foods The calcium in milk is easily absorbed and used in the body, which is why milk and milk products are reliable as well as economical sources of calcium. A diet rich in protein and vitamin D contributes to bone health. Due to their high protein, vitamin D, and calcium content, dairy foods are a good choice for maintaining strong bones. A diet rich in fruit, vegetables and low-fat dairy foods, with reduced saturated fat, is as effective as some medications in reducing blood pressure in people with increased blood pressure. It has also been shown to reduce risk of cardiovascular disease and type-2 diabetes1. Cultured dairy products like yogurt contain probiotics which provide a wide array of health benefits. Probiotics in the diet can enhance the good bacteria in the gut, improve health and reduce the risk of certain diseases"" I just want to have a closing statement about one particular very healthy example of dairy. Yogurt. http://www.webmd.com..., ""First off, your body needs to have a healthy amount of 'good' bacteria in the digestive tract, and many yogurts are made using active, good bacteria. One of the words you""ll be hearing more of in relation to yogurt is 'probiotics.' Probiotic, which literally means 'for life,' refers to living organisms that can result in a health benefit when eaten in adequate amounts. Miguel Freitas, PhD, medical marketing manager for Dannon Co., says the benefits associated with probiotics are specific to certain strains of these ""good"" bacteria. Many provide their benefits by adjusting the microflora (the natural balance of organisms) in the intestines, or by acting directly on body functions, such as digestion or immune function. (Keep in mind that the only yogurts that contain probiotics are those that say ""live and active cultures"" on the label.)"" Vote pro for health problems. However, if you don't want to loose your meats and dairies, vote con. A vote for con, is a vote for health. Thank you."	CON	152
152	Se3d235e2-A8f9772f1	Killing animals should be viewed as equivalent to killing humans	"Leonardo Da Vinci - ""The time will come when people such as I will look upon the murder of (other) animals as they now look upon the murder of human beings.""["	PRO	153
153	S8ccad7c0-A687eded0	As Long as we Continue to Eat Meat, Beastiality should be Legalized!	"At no point in the opening round was it ever stated that the resolution of the debate was: Slaughtering animals for food is more unethical than bestiality. I had only the title to go by in figuring out what the resolution was. I was also under the impression that we were arguing about eating animals, not slaughtering them. The resolution of this debates seems to be changing based on what is most convenient for my opponent. I am going to cut my opponent some slack by ignoring the fact that the title (which I took to be the resolution) is a logically incoherent statement. However, I will not allow such gymnastics as changing in the third round whether we are debating the eating or animals or the killing of animals in slaughterhouse conditions as these are very different things. My stance remains that I do not approve of the means by which animals are often slaughtered but I do not disprove of the killing and eating of animals in and of itself. Now, moving on. Thanks to my opponent for providing this information about the behavior of animals in the wild. I do not consider it relevant to this debate. If it is okay to rape animals because they rape each other in the wild, would it not be okay to kill and eat animals because they do this in the wild as well? Certain the way animals behave toward one another cannot be considered a logical basis to determine who humans should behave towards animals. The behavior of non-sentient animals should have no effect on the way humans treat them any more than the behavior of non-sentient rocks should have an effect on how humans treat rocks. Humans, by virtue of the fact that they are sentient, can be expected to uphold a different moral standard than non-sentient beings or objects. Now, it appears my use of the word sentience has been called in question. Because Marriam-Webster seems to have offered a general definition that is not functionally useful for this debate, so I will elucidate as follows: By a sentience creature, I mean: a conscious, self-aware, autonomously acting individual with the capacity for moral judgment, abstract reasoning, and the ability to communicate these concepts through a syntactical language. That is what I mean by sentient for the purpose of this debate and until a word is created with that exact definition, I will continue to use the word ""sentient"" to express that meaning. I apologize for not defining the term better earlier. In this case, it is extremely clear that my definition would refer only to humans and not to other animals. Now, I will move on the clear up the apparent confusion about the distinction between valuing life and valuing suffering. When a person dies, it results in the termination of a sentience consciousness, and by virtue of the fact that I am a sentient consciousness I deem to existence of sentience consciousnesses to be favorable. I believe that in general bu supporting conditions that are favorable to my own existence, I support my own existence (barring an exception in which the costs outweigh the benefits). By this form of moral reasoning I believe that it is generally wrong to kill a person. By the same reasoning I believe it is wrong to cause pain to an entity capable of experiencing pain. An animal is an entity capable of experiencing pain but not a sentient consciousness. Therefore, I believe it i unfavorable to cause animals pain but not unfavorable to kill them. I also believe that a sentient consciousness has an innate value in that it can produce knowledge and new ideas and should therefore be preserved, whereas animals lack this ability. It is perfectly logical and consistent to support the killing of animals but not the torture of animals with supporting neither the killing or torture of people. There are traits that animals and people have which differ between them that support this conclusion. Now, I will remind everyone that I am under no obligation to prove that the present conditions under which animals are slaughtered are ethical. I believe they are not. I will repeat again that I am arguing for the EATING of animals and I have defend the killing of animals by some means. It is certainly possible to kill animals painlessly by lethal injection and since this is an ethical debate, the pragmatics of doing this on a large scale does not matter. The topics in this debate are ethical and therefore matters of principle. What is right and wrong does not conform to practicality. In order to make the distinction between human children and animals, by opponent appeals to that fact that animals live by different standards than humans. I agree. And I believe that humans should behavior according to human standards, standards which suggest having sex with a non-consenting individual is immoral. The fact that animals may engage in bestiality in the wild on has bearing on how humans should act toward animals because humans live according to different standards than animals. And I will repeat for evidence: even if this analogy were true it would justify the killing and eating of animals since animals do this to each other all the time. How is having sex with a non-consenting individual immoral? Well, I never thought I would have to explain the ethics of why rape is wrong up here goes anyway. Having sex with a non-consenting individual involves preforming a physical act on that individual against that individuals will. A physical act preformed on an individual against that individual's will is considered an act of violence. This violates the nonaggression principle, which states that one does not initiate an act of violence except in response to an act of violence or an anticipated act of violence, and the violence used must be to prevent further violence from being carried out. The nonaggression principle is typically held as an axiom of libertarian political philosophies, and though rejection of this axiom is possible it usually conflicts with too many other logic-based ethical theories (including the ones I have outlined above which oppose the killing and torturing of human beings). Killing of animals by seem to violate the non-aggression principle, but this is hardly so. I content that the nonaggression principle applies differently to animals than it does to humans. Simply, animals are protected from acts which cause pain unto them but not acts which kill them but virtue of the fact that their rights differ in this regard. As the nonaggression principle was meant to be applied only to humans, this exception sees correct. My opponent's last paragraph is not related to any of my arguments. I never said bestiality was unethical because it is abnormal. This is not at all analogous to homosexuality, of course. Homosexuals have sex with consenting individuals, not with non-sentient beings incapable of even understanding the concept of consent. My opponent's argument tends to appeal to connotations and our assumptions about what is correct based on our interpretations of reality. I prefer to start from ethical abstractions and move toward more concrete possibilities. There direction of reasoning which I have preferred to espouse allows us to weigh objective values and assess their relationships more clearly before moving on to interpret the concrete based on the ramifications of our conclusions. I use ethics as my lens through which to view reality and therefore must build my ethical position from the ground up. My definitions and conclusions are logically consistent by themselves and when applied to reality suggest the conclusion that I have proposed, which is that: 1. The killing of humans is unethical. 2. The torture of humans is unethical. 3. The killing of animals is ethical. 4. The torture of animals is unethical. 5. The rape of humans is unethical. 6. The rape of animals is unethical. And with that I am all out of characters."	CON	154
154	S42c351d0-A5f6bf2f5	Children in the US should be exposed and encouraged to eat insects	"To put insects into children's food, whether visible or not, is the same thing as putting meat in a vegetarian, it may not be illegal, but it is highly immoral. It can actually hurt the child's mental health after discovering what was placed into his lunch, or dinner. And to fail for several generations is a very long time, if you would realize, by then it would be reasonable for people to eat such foods due to perhaps new technology or very serious overpopulation, including the US. Who knows? Perhaps you are right about that one, but as you had clarified, ""Several generations"", not immediately. As much as insects are not banned from consumption, I must once again say that there are many people who are still unwillingly to try it. Imagine if the US government do allow teachers to teach the students on eating insects, but ironically the teacher himself/herself doesn't dare, so what about the students? I decided to check the store MarxFoods that you referred to. What I found was this video of the company's staff trying their own insect foods. While they managed to pull themselves to eat it, their expressions are nonetheless disgusted, and quite laughable. For that, thanks for it. Clearly, this debate is now not about it's high nutritional value, but instead the mentality of the American people for or against having insects as foods part of their diet."	CON	155
155	Scce0602e-A5d60a659	Every adult in first world countries should be vegan.	Structure 1st round brief statement of position and acceptance. 2nd round main argument 3rd round rebuttals 4th round defend your r2 argument against opponent's r3 rebuttal. Thanks for accepting this debate. I will be arguing that every adult in first world countries should be vegan. Exceptions, rare medical conditions, extraordinary circumstances, and lab grown meat. [1] Examples of extraordinary circumstances would be stuck on a desert island or in an elevator shaft. Sources 1. http://prime.peta.org...	PRO	156
156	S8ccad7c0-Aa4616ea9	As Long as we Continue to Eat Meat, Beastiality should be Legalized!	"Should beastiality be legalized? My first initial response to this question was NO, definitely NO!!! But as I started pondering this question, I posed a new point, ""Well we eat them."" If beastiality is illegal doesn't that suggest that slaughtering animals should be illegal too. Millions of animals are tortured everyday at slaughter houses. Animals are kept in poor conditions; confined to small spaces; chickens have their beaks clipped when they are chicks because they poke each other to death; calves are pulled away from their mothers at a young age; animals are pumped with numerous antibiotics, hormones ,and drugs. All so that we can have that nice piece of meat for dinner. How can society condone this type of cruelty towards animals but condemn beastiality, it doesn't make any sense. Either both should be illegal, or neither."	PRO	157
157	S8ccad7c0-A76474afe	As Long as we Continue to Eat Meat, Beastiality should be Legalized!	"Introduction: For the sake of this argument, I am going to assume that eating meat is indeed morally equivalent to bestiality (even though I don't believe this is necessarily true). I instead intend to argue that the eating of meat does not justify bestiality. My opponent make the following statements: ""Millions of animals are tortured everyday at slaughter houses. Animals are kept in poor conditions; confined to small spaces; chickens have their beaks clipped when they are chicks because they poke each other to death; calves are pulled away from their mothers at a young age; animals are pumped with numerous antibiotics, hormones ,and drugs. All so that we can have that nice piece of meat for dinner."" How awful. Though I find animals quite delicious and do not value their lives at all, I don't think they should be treated in such a horrible manner. However, this has nothing to do bestiality. ""How can society condone this type of cruelty towards animals but condemn [sic] beastiality, it doesn't make any sense. Either both should be illegal, or neither."" No. Just because we eat animals does not mean we should have sex with them. Nothing about the fact that we eat animals implies that we should have sex with them except for that fact that both can be considered cruel. However, just because one thing we do is cruel does not mean we should do as many cruel things as possible. Is it a contradiction that society condones the slaughter of animals for food but condemns bestiality? Maybe, but that does not mean that one necessarily implies the other. That will be all for now."	CON	158
158	S8287514f-Ae2b08a63	animals should not be killed for any reason	And thank you for your argument con, the reason I am brining this up is because of how the animals are brought up, treated and then killed. I don't think it would be very pleasant to get shot in the head and then hung upside down to let the blood flow to you head so u get concussion, then your mouth is blocked so u can't BREATHE by someone stepping on it....I don't think any of us would want anything like that happening to us, so why should it to them, when they are innocent, not every human is bad, but animals are fairly, surely innocent, I assume? They aren't going to go and rob a bank, or kill a person cause they feel like it. Because they don't have a voice and can't express their feelings. But I know they to have feelings, feel pain, have families and just to casually want to live their life, without anyone coming and interrupting. We have a enough idiots in the world as it is!	PRO	159
159	S8287514f-Af1eb6230	animals should not be killed for any reason	I think animals SHOULD NOT be killed for ANY reason at all! Animals have a right to live because they are innocent creatures. We want to live our life and so do they, so why are we aloud to kill animals in a inhumane way and not get punished, but if a child gets hit by a car, it's all over the news, and families are having sad ceremonies because of their loss. But on the other side of the world, mother pigs are getting stacked onto a truck, getting ready to be traveled for 72 hours in the hot weather, no air leaving their young behind and not getting time to look after them. What happens to those piglets, they end up as fresh bacon on your plate. What happens to them in the process of making bacon to fill selfish humans belly, I'm not gong to go there. If someone is sad because a child has died and they mourn because that child didn't have a chance to live life, But then they don't realise that that is exactly the SAME thing in animal matter? why do we value human lives over animals so much? What makes us so special, especially since we are the ones who are ruining our earth for everyone and everything else.	PRO	160
160	Sadee5bf1-Ad7f2879a	If humans are like animals they should be able to eat them	Having the right to eat animals does not mean we have to eat animals. While there are obviously many carnivores there are also many herbivores that do not eat other animals. The level we are on does not make any difference to whether we should eat meat or not. Even if we are superior to animals does that mean we should automatically consider them food, animals perform other tasks for us; companionship, beasts of burden, used in war, as symbols etc Eating meat is indeed natural in the sense that other animals do it as well. In fact, it is even done on occasion by our closest living relatives, the chimpanzees. However, there are many other things which are also natural. For example, chimpanzee males sometimes rape the females in their tribe. Chimpanzees sometimes engage in organized warfare against other tribes with which they compete for territory. A chimpanzee male, in a moment of rage, sometimes picks up a nearby infant, and crushes his skull against a rock. If we believed that eating meat was ethically permissible simply because other animals did it as well, then this would imply that there is nothing wrong with rape, cannibalism, or infanticide, all of which routinely occurs throughout the animal kingdom.	CON	161
161	S1900cfd9-A70bee6d	Animal Abuse should be stopped	"First off, I mispoked or in this case, miswrote about the "" Object "" thing... so I apologize. What I meant to write, was that Animals are inferior to Humans and therefore are not entitled to rights and protections under the law. The reasons which I have presented : Lack of Reasoning, Animals do not understand that they have rights.... and so many others shows that they are inferior to Humans and therefore do not deserve the same rights and protections as we do. Humans are not EQUAL to Animals, because we have a full understanding of our rights. So what does this mean ? It means that Animals are inferior to Humans and such are considered private property.... so the Owner can do what ever it wants. "" Crimes of abuse and murder can start from abusing. Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and Northeastern University says, ""animal abusers are five times more likely to commit violent crimes against people and four times more likely to commit property crimes than are individuals without a history of animal abuse"". This so called evidence really does not prove anything. It's only a correlation, It doesn't really tells us anything and the fact that this came from a biased source really cheapens my opponent's argument. ........... Passing new regulations, destroys our Personal Liberty for it reduces Humans to that of an animal. So I am done."	CON	162
162	Sadee5bf1-A10aad26	If humans are like animals they should be able to eat them	Although the argument was made above that humans are superior to animals, there are some who might say that this is not true. However, even if you agree with this position and say we are at the same level as animals, we still have the right to eat them; if animals are allowed to eat animals, and we are like animals, then we should be allowed to eat animals as well.	PRO	163
163	S3750ddab-A1c723f2	I should be a Sikh	SIKH AFTERLIFE: You are leading me to believe that the Sikhs believe that a person will not achieve Olam Haba unless he has lived a moderate life. If he is evil, he will be reincarnated, to try again. In that case, they do not believe in any divine punishment. A person is evil, he dies, he comes back, he lives a righteous life, and he merits a portion? He needs to be punished, hence the concept of Gehinnom. SIKHISM PER SE: The fact that Sikhs do not publicly recognize the Seven Laws and the G-d of Israel makes the whole thing separate from the rest of the Noahides. I am unfamiliar with the religion but even if it is monotheistic, you can say the same of Islam. Thus, a Muslim will convert to Judaism and continue to believe in Muhammad. It simply does not work. TEFILLIN: The tradition of tefillin, like all other traditions, all originate from Moses on Sinai. Many of the Biblical commandments are vague. For example, we read in the Torah that a Jew must circumcise his son when he turns 8 days old. What if that Jew is not a surgeon? What if there is no father, but only a mother, does she have to do the job? What if the baby is ill and cannot undergo the operation? What if the circumcision is on Shabbat or a holiday? Many many laws. Such laws are not written in the Written Torah, but we know them only through the Oral Torah, which was NOT written down, but it was passed down from generation to generation by memory; teacher to student, father to son. Eventually, people were becoming less and less scholarly. Thus, the rabbis feared it would be forgotten. Ergo, they wrote it all down over a period of about 200-300 of years, if I remember correctly. The rabbis who wrote it down are known as the Tanna'im (singular: tanna) Rabbi Judah the Prince, the last tanna, gathered together all of this tradition that they wrote down and compiled, organized and wrote down in an orderly and precise fashion. The work of Rabbi Judah is known as the Mishnah. After Rabbi Judah, rabbis known as the Amora'im (singular: amora) wrote a commentary on the Mishnah. Their commentary is known as the Gemara. In the Gemara, you'll also find additional tradition from Moses on Sinai which was not included within the canonical texts of the Mishnah. These traditions are known as Baraitot (singular: Baraita). The amoraim did a stupendous job explaining confusing concepts in the Mishnah. The Mishnah and Gemara together can be referred to as the Talmud, or the Oral Law. Shalom.	CON	164
164	S42c351d0-A6ff1e3d2	Children in the US should be exposed and encouraged to eat insects	In my conclusion, con explained that as the US has enough food for its people, there is no need for food such as insects. con also said that in order to teach the children, the adults must lead by example. However, the adults do not have the courage to do so, thus it is impossible for most children to do so. I thank the instigator for starting this debate, and I wish the best for the both of us in the voting round.	CON	165
165	S95769c7a-Aef15e3ef	Vegetarians and vegans should at least let their kids try meat out once.	Extending all arguments.	CON	166
166	S42c351d0-A80def542	Children in the US should be exposed and encouraged to eat insects	Rules of the debate are as follows: 1. Round one is used for acceptance only. 2. Rounds two and three are good for debate. 3. Round four is for conclusions and any final comments that do not add arguments. 4. Any questions should be deferred to the comments section just for clarity. 5. Use sources to back up your points. Objective logic and deductive reasoning do not have to have sources but factual evidence needs to be linked. 6. I understand that English is not the universal first language. However, please try to break your arguments up in to paragraphs for readability. 7. There is a 10,000 character limit and 72 hour response times. You are not expected to fill the character limit but it's there if you feel the need to use longer arguments. And that's it. Good luck to whoever takes this on, I have wanted to debate this topic for awhile.	PRO	167
167	Scce0604d-A898b5b99	Every adult in first world countries should be vegan.	There are three things this debate comes down to: Impacts, evidence, and the morality/justice debate Let's start line by line First my opponent claims animal cruelty is never justified. I agree, but I also made the distinction in the first round between suffering and death, and my opponent has clearly conceded that there are moral alternatives to the pro case. Farming reform through legislation being amongst the best options. It has nothing to do with cattle ranchers or grass fed cows, but true reform that makes farming smarter and more sustainable. Then my opponent attempts to discredit my Farlie link but completely overlooks it's most important arguments. Farlie cannot compare numbers because this country has never been on an all vegan diet and secondarily, Farlie discusses that the amount needed to plot that much vegetation and sustain it so it does not endanger consumers is not feasible. There are multiple warrants but I have limited characters and highly suggest that voters read the article for themselves. Next my opponent says let's not speculate about the future and I agree, for the last round it's a waste of characters. Then my opponent claimed that a majority of my environmental impacts should be disregarded because the pro case is exclusive to the first world. Here's where my opponent makes a major contradiction because then the impacts of justice and morality are completely taken away. If the pro case can act as an entity that has the power to gradually abolish meat in ALL first world countries, then choosing not to do the same in other parts of the world means my opponent is in a double bind that I discussed in round two. Then, I win the morality debate by at least keeping the status quo which would actually be more morally sound. That is where my opponent was confused in this debate. In addition, my opponent has yet to answer any of my environmental warrants to what a vegan first workd is probelmatic such as water usage (mildly contested but never had any evidence or warrants to back it up) , amount of healthy and available land, amount of output required, and many of my links from the first round have also been overlooked. If anything, I don't need to win economy because I've already proved there is more than enough evidence that the plan will fail. It's sad that I was never able to get into a really good warrant debate about the environment. The only claim made that tried to challenge mine was that grain is composite or, but my opponent overlooks the fact that the amount of grain the U.S. produces is also unsustainable and would contradict efforts to create a absolute vegetarian diet in this country. As for humane washing, it really is of no issue in this debate round. As long as impacts like black markets, second and third world countries lack of vegan diet, and inability to have sustainability outweigh it, there is no need to consider it as a major impact in the round. In answer to Mercola, 1) he's a member of ACN, ANA, IABDM, and multiple health organizations that at least give him the minimum requirements necessary to be a credible source. If you don't want to accept that, then there is still no issues because the health debate is almost non existent at this point. In answer to healthy homes the article talks about how when we industrialize plants, we will lose diversity. That's a serious issue because bio diversity is key to survival. I strongly encourage voters to read these articles, from both debaters, so you gain a better understanding of how the impact debate favors the con. Finally my opponent made two comparisons. First they compared animals understanding of justice to comatose patients understanding of it, and as much as I find it problematic use that example, it does prove my point; animals have no mental capacity to underrand justice. Next they compared justice outweighing the economy to the injustice of slavery. First of all, there are many published articles about capitalism and the incentive to improve the economy one of the most prominent reasons that the civil war was successful. I don't know if I can post new evidence since it's the last round but if you'd like an article or multiple articles comment and id be happy to provide them to you. Second, to compare the justice of freeing slaves to the justice of freeing animals is an insult to many people. Slavery is a human rights issue, becoming a vegan is not under any circumstance one that falls under that same category (for obvious reasons). Here is the link to the animals will be worse off argument: https://medium.com... My final statement is this: I have proved that the environment, the economy, and even the morality of our world will under no circumstance be improved with the pro case. To make it easy and simple, my opponent failed to correctly refute my best piece of evidence which talks about how animals would, if anything, be in more danger. Thanks for the debate..	CON	168
168	S42c351d0-A6eb907a7	Children in the US should be exposed and encouraged to eat insects	"In conclusion, the pro will explain why con failed to win this debate. Pro covered the nutritional value of insects, con conceded that these were true. Pro pointed out that population strain necessitates the use of efficient food production. Con responded by saying that because many Americans are obese, they do not need nutritious food. Con has fallen back on everything except the social stigma against insects. They claim that it is immoral (no sources on this or reason why) and can hurt their mental health (again no sources or logic as to why this would be true). Con also claims that taking generations to invoke change is too long. The topic of this debate was never to make Americans eat insects in one generation. The topic is that ""Children in the US should be exposed and encouraged to eat insects"" [sic]. Under that topic, the cons argument has proved inconsequential and does not mean anything in this debate. The final argument that the con has been pushing is that Americans in general will not be keen on consuming insects. This is why we are pushing children to do it. Then the multiple generation build-up to acceptance begins. This was never stated to be a quick and easy solution but rather a necessity to provide for the population of the future. I thank the Con for engaging in this debate, it has been educational and allowed me to discover even more about this topic."	PRO	169
169	S8ccad7c0-Abd9bd693	As Long as we Continue to Eat Meat, Beastiality should be Legalized!	"Now I'm getting really confused? Was about supposed to be arguing about society's perspective, the eating of animals, the killing of animals in general, or the killing of animals under specific conditions? The way I see it, I already chose to ignore the fact that my opponent had no explicit resolution and I agreed to overlook the fact that the title (which I took to be the resolution in the absence of one) was a logical disaster. In any case, none of this gets in the way of my position, which I have clearly outlined and argued, and is clearly in disagreement with my opponents. Seeing as this debate did not have a clear resolution, I think that the conflict between my position and my opponent's is adequate. I have not ignored the underlying moral principles of the debate, in fact I have focused on them and covered them extensively. I maintain my position that the way animals interact with each other in the wild is not the basis on which humans should treat animals. The facts about animal sexual behavior provided by my opponent are not adequate to prove it is necessarily ethical to have sex with animals, they are just descriptive statements about how animals behavior. Humans, as I have said, can be expected to conform to a higher standard that is not based on animal behavior at all. Now, to address the concerns over my definition of sentient. It is quite true that I ""concocted"" that definition. I ""concocted"" it because it seems that the English languages lacks a word that means, "" a conscious, self-aware, autonomously acting individual with the capacity for moral judgment, abstract reasoning, and the ability to communicate these concepts through a syntactical language."" How inconvenient for me. So, I commandeered an already existing word that I deemed a similar enough approximation and explained what I meant by it's usage. Again, I apologize for doing so a round late. The exact definition of words as provided by dictionaries is no restraint on our use of language if we are clear on what we mean, which I took care to be certain of. There was a very clear distinction I was trying to make by that definition that my opponent is trying to gloss over with a needless semantical argument. I have not said that humans set the moral standards for all species. Non-human animals lack the capacity for moral judgement and therefore are not held to any more standards. Humans, on the other hand, have certain moral standards they can be expected to conform to. I have provided several moral standards I expect humans should conform to and my reasons as to why. These clearly suggest that humans could painlessly kill animals for food but should not kill each other, and should rape neither animals nor each other. As far as animal breeding is concerned, I do not approve of it in higher animals if it is involuntary. I suspect for the most part animals are fairly complacent when it comes to mating with one another, but I am not expert. I would expect this practice should be carefully monitored. However, I am not an apologist for the meatpacking industry, animal breeders, or society in general. My platform in this debate is to defend my position that the eating of animals is ethical with bestiality is not. If others hold logically inconsistent views than that does not mar by platform. Forgive me if I took my opponent's question of ""How can society condone this type of cruelty towards animals but condemn bestiality?"" to be rhetorical rather than the topic of the debate. I am arguing for the ethics of the two specific practices and I have no interest in defending the moral views of others. Now that I am finished clearing the charges against the validity of my position, let me move on to defend the position itself. My opponent says: ""No one ever argued that ""having sex with a non-consenting individual"" is moral. Therefore, what my opponent is implying is irrelevant."" However, I quite clearly explained that an animal is a non-consenting individual. If my opponent argues that having sex with an animal is moral and an animal is a non-consenting individual, than my opponent has argued that having sex with a non-consenting individual is moral. She never contested the argument animals are not able to give consent. My opponent says, ""Again, my opponent did not supply a citation for this claim. Which could be possibly concocted from thin air. Regardless, one can argue that slaughtering animals is an ""aggressive"" act. Since the slaughtering of animals is the unnecessary use of force, which inflicts, to some extent, pain and/or suffering on the animal involved. ""Bleeding an animal out,"" is not my idea of ""non-aggressive"" behavior."" Here we seem to be missing the point of an ethical debate. Of course I have ""concocted"" this argument. I am creating an ethical argument based on rational principles which I believe we can all reach through logical thinking. I clearly outlined my definition of aggression and explained what acts animals should be protected from, what ones they should not, and why. To recap: an animals mental state implies (for reasons I elaborated on that I am not going to restate) that we should not cause it suffering but that killing it is acceptable. It is wrong to cause suffering to something because of the nonaggression principle. It is also wrong to kill humans under the nonaggression principle (and to destroy human property, and so on) but I also explained that these stipulations would not logically be extended to animals. There are sound logical and ethical principles which lead to my position that the eating of animals is moral and bestiality is not. Forgive me for not establishing my entire ethical framework in 8000 characters. I could go in to why it is ethical to kill humans during war, in fact I could write about every imaginable issue that could come up. I'm not going to because that's not what the debate is about. I'm extending the ethical position only to include the distinction between humans and animals, the distinction between killing and causing pain/suffering, and why rape, torture, and the murder of humans (but not animals) are wrong. Again, I am not a social apologist and it was in no way clearly indicated that I am expected to be. For the sake of argument, I could be suggesting that we slaughter all animals by lethal injection. I am not concerned with the exact details because the details of the practice can be studied extensively once the ethics are established. The actual practices of slaughterhouses, which I have repeated expressed my disapproval of, are not concerned with the moral argument that I am trying to make. Final Considerations: Remember that in the second round, I changed my position from the first round because I was originally assuming that the title was the resolution and was arguing based on the massive logical hole in the title. In order to improve the debate I decided to accept (what I thought was) the implied resolution ""the eating of animals is more unethical than bestiality"" Also, my opponent has repeatedly attacked my lack of sources. My argument, however, was meant to draw solely from rational considerations that do not require an expertise in the topic of animal sexuality. I still maintain that animal behavior is irrelevant to this debate; this debate concerns human behavior. Though my opponent has twice ignored this analogy, I will mention it again: animals brutally kill and eat each other in the wild. If my opponent's rationale is correct than surely we are right to do the same. I believe, as does (first source?) my Professor Peter Brown that a basic ethical argument requires sources only so there can be an agreement of facts, but not to back the argument itself. I have no factual disagreements with my opponent, my argument is purely an ethical one. And now I am all out of room."	CON	170
170	S3471caff-A8b8ca37f	Meat, dairy, and eggs should be banned worldwide.	So, before I begin my debate, I would like to thank a few people. Thank you my opponent, stupid ape, for debating this topic with me. Thank you judges for reading this debate. I really appreciate your feedback. So now, let me summarize the main points in this debate. I will then show why the con deserves the win and finally state some killer statistics to if you have any doubt clear the clouds. Now here are all prop points: 1. Meat, eggs, and dairy are unhealthy to consume. 2. Production of animal products causes excessive environmental damage. 3. Production causes animal cruelty 4. Production agitates world hunger Dear audience, you have seen how I refuted all of these claims. Starting from their first assertion which I refuted by stating how many health benefits all of these foods have. Their second point, that production of vegetables is also harmful and that we are making animal production healthier. And ending with their last point that really, meat does not agitate hunger. Now onto my own assertions. And the PRO HAS FAILED TO REFUTE EVERY SINGLE ON OF MY OWN ASSERTIONS. 1. Meat, eggs and dairy are required to maintain a healthy diet. 2. Most of the population consumes these products. 3. This is not feasible. 4. Meat has many health benefits. 5. The use of pesticides in farming is also unhealthy. 6. The right to body. 7. Will take jobs of millions 8. Yogurt, a dairy, is healthy. 9. Eggs are necessary in the diet. Judge lets quickly weigh this round. On the con, we are trying to ensure jobs for everyone. We are trying to keep a safe, healthy environment. And that is what every single human being needs. On their side, we have the illogical, absurd, out of place assertions. They talked about ending world hunger with this ban. However, in my previous speeches, I have pointed out multiple times the TRUE causes of poverty. Not the lack of food, the lack of money. Now onto some killer statistics which will clear the clouds, if any for the judges. Thank you http://www.medicaldaily.com.... Benefit 1: Since meat contains a large amount of protein, this could be beneficial to the body as the need for protein is an important one for the body. Since protein is said to improve the overall health and well-being of one’s body, there are other benefits such as the repair and building of body tissues as well as the production of antibodies that will protect the body from infections, thus strengthening the immune system as well. Most importantly, since meat contains all the essential amino acids, it definitely ranks as one of the best sources of protein. Benefit 2: Of the many nutrients that meat contains, it is rich in iron, zinc and selenium. While iron helps in forming hemoglobin that transports oxygen to different parts of your body, zinc helps in tissue formation and metabolism as well as selenium breaks down the fat and chemicals in the body. Benefit 3: Vitamins are also a big part of the one’s diet, and Vitamin A, B and D are commonly found in meat as well. Not only do these vitamins promote good vision, stronger teeth and bones but it also support the central nervous system thus promoting mental health as well. Another big benefit of eating meat is the maintenance of your skin’s health. Next onto supplying some points on the benefits of eggs and dairy. Thank you, http://www.nationaldairycouncil.org..., Research has long shown that dairy’s nutrients are vital to the development of strong bones and reduce the risk for developing rickets and osteoporosis. In fact, the U.S. Surgeon General’s Report on Bone Health and Osteoporosis (2004) recognizes the role of nutrients in dairy foods that work together to help protect bones. See below for fact sheets, educational materials, and research that illustrate how the nutrients in milk, cheese, and yogurt help build strong bones. Thank you, http://authoritynutrition.com... Studies show that eggs actually improve the cholesterol profile. They raise HDL (the good) cholesterol and increase the size of LDL particles, which should lower the risk of heart disease. Whole eggs are incredibly nutritious, containing a very large amount of nutrients compared to the calorie load. The nutrients are found in the yolks, while the whites are mostly protein.Whole eggs are incredibly nutritious, containing a very large amount of nutrients compared to the calorie load. The nutrients are found in the yolks, while the whites are mostly protein. Eggs are an excellent source of protein, with all the essential amino acids in the right ratios. Eggs are very high in the antioxidants Lutein and Zeaxanthin, which can drastically reduce the risk of Macular Degeneration and Cataracts. In one study, 30 overweight or obese women consumed either a breakfast of eggs or a breakfast of bagels. Both breakfasts had the same amount of calories. The women in the egg group felt more full and ate less calories for the rest of the day and for the next 36 hours (20). In another study that went on for 8 weeks, eating eggs for breakfast lead to significant weight improvements compared to the same amount of calories from bagels. The egg group (21): •Lost 65% more body weight. •Lost 16% more body fat. •Had a 61% greater reduction in BMI. •Had a 34% greater reduction in waist circumference (a good marker for the dangerous abdominal fat). Now let me just point out.	CON	171
171	S8ccad7c0-A91130d56	As Long as we Continue to Eat Meat, Beastiality should be Legalized!	"I am also pleased that my opponent would like to continue debating this topic. The style of my argument is irrelevant, whether in an essay format or listed out, as long as I provide a claim and sufficient evidence to support it. My opponent states: ""As the title of the debate clearly states, I am to defend the eating of animals, not the killing of animals in slaughterhouses. It is not necessary to kill animals in a slaughterhouse in order to eat them."" The claim I have presented is not found solely in the title itself, but encompasses the body of the opening argument. My claim: Slaughtering animals for food is more unethical than the practice of beastiality. Supporting evidence: Animals confined to slaughterhouses undergo pain and/or suffering which outweighs the pain and/or suffering animals may experience while in a sexual act, whether between human or non-human. My opponent states: ""I have not studied the sexual behavior of animals and do not have any intent to."" By not studying the sexual behavior of animals leaves one unable to form an educated opinion on the topic of beastiality. Therefore, if my opponent has no ""intent"" to examine animal sexual behavior, he merely forms his argument based on his own personal opinion in regards to the topic. I felt I did not have to provide a citation in regards to animal behavior, since we can ""observe directly"" animal sexual behavior in the natural world. In the example of a ""dog mounting a human's leg,"" given by Research Psychologist, Jesse Bering. One can ""observe directly"" that dogs can also be sexually aroused and/or find stimulation in inter-species sex. It is quite obvious that a ""dog mounting a human's leg"" will not likely result in sexual intercourse, but the underlying premise still exists. I will ask the readers how many have experienced a dog mounting their leg or a friend's leg; or how many have experienced a dog mounting an inanimate object? It is also true that many animals practice masturbation, oral sex, and homosexuality. Which can lead one to conclude that animals don't necessarily commit sexual acts solely to reproduce, but also to some extent, to experience pleasure. In the article, ""Do Animals Enjoy Sex?,"" by Robin Nixon. She provides a statement from Mark Bekoff, a University of Colorado biologist and author of ""The Emotional Lives of Animals"" (New World Library). ""Not only do animals enjoy the deed, they also likely have orgasms, he said. They are difficult to measure directly but by watching facial expressions, body movements and muscle relaxation, many scientists have concluded that animals reach a pleasurable climax, he said."" In ""The Politics of Rape: Debunking the Feminist Myth."" By Trayce Hansen, Ph.D. She explains how animal on animal sexual contact is not in all instances mutual, and also that rape is found in many non-human species. She states, ""First, rape is universal; it's universal across time, across cultures and societies, and even across many species."" And goes on to support this claim by providing statements from further reputable authors. She states, ""This fact is clearly validated by data in biologist Randy Thornhill and anthropologist Craig T. Palmer's book A Natural History of Rape: Biological Bases of Sexual Coercion. Specifically, Thornhill and Palmer's documentation supports the contention that no rape-free human society has ever existed and that many non-human animal species do engage in raping behaviors."" My opponent states: ""In any case, the topic of intercourse between non-sentient animals is not relevant to this debate. We are discussing sentient humans have sex with non-sentient animals, which is a different matter entirely."" I have not discussed ""non-sentient"" animals. We are only referring to sentient beings, which includes all species capable of ""response to or conscious of sense."" www.merriam-webster.com. Which includes any animal, whether human or non-human, capable of experiencing pain and/or suffering. If my opponent is suggesting my reference to animal on animal sexual contact, in that it has no relevance, I will beg to differ. What is acceptable in the natural world of animals can't be overridden. Therefore, because in the natural world of animals sexual contact is not always a mutual affair, one can conclude that animals don't have the right to determine where, when, and with whom they have sexual intercourse with. It can also conclude that animals may experience pleasure and that a ""dog mounting a human's leg"" might actually enjoy it. My opponent states: ""I will affirm that I am quite certain I do not value the lives of animals at all. Though I do not like to see them suffering and subjected to terrible conditions, I have no objection to humanely killing them. Hence, though I disapprove of slaughterhouses, I do not find it wrong to eat animals."" This statement is contrary in itself. One must place, to some degree, value on the lives of animals, if one can care about the suffering and/or pain experienced by animals at slaughterhouses. If one did not value animals lives one would not care about the degree in which they were to suffer. It is true that the human specie is different from all other species. But your ""Defense of Eating Animals"" does not justify the killing and eating of animals. Yes, we are different from animals. We have the ability to reason, make logical decisions, etc. But this is insufficient evidence to prove that animals shouldn't have rights to live and be happy. My opponent claims: Because we are different from other species we deserve the right to life but other species don't deserve the right to life. The claim you support is flawed in many ways. And as Peter Singer suggests is Speciesism, which is the discrimination or prejudice based on species. It is for the simple fact that ALL ANIMALS have the drive to survive; and avoid pain and/or suffering at all costs, that their lives should be taken into consideration. The fact that we are all different does not justify the taking of life. My opponent states: ""Though I do not object to quickly and painlessly killing animals for food, attacking and torturing them in this way [beastiality] is in no way acceptable."" My opponent has not proven that slaughtering animals is ""quick"" or ""painless."" Nor has my opponent addressed the pain and/or suffering animals are inflicted with during the duration of their confinement. Also he has not proven that beastiality is ""attacking"" or ""torturing"" the animals. Both these statements are baseless assertions. Humans obviously can give their consent. Therefore, it is illegal to make sexual advances on any person that does not consent to the action. While it is true that a young child does not have the rational ability to consent to sex, it is also true that the same set of rules humans live by is not the same set of rules animals are necessarily bound to. In regards to animal consent, animals in the natural world do not have to give consent to sex. I don't know the last time I asked my dog how his date went. We can't assume that animals have the ability to pick and choose their partners, let alone decide what specie they prefer. One would have to prove that animals undergo pain and/or suffering which is significantly higher than any pain and/or suffering experienced by animals in the natural world in order for beastiality to be considered inhumane. As I stated previously, beastiality is an abnormal human behavior. But does abnormal human behavior justify beastiality as unethical in nature. Homosexuality was once considered a ""perversion"" by many, but has become increasingly accepted in society as an ""abnormal"" genetic trait. Homosexuals, today, do not face punishment for their sexual preferences. Can one consider that this analogy be extended to other sexual preferences, like beastiality."	PRO	172
172	S932cc55a-Afb5b7d7	Rachael Carson was an eco-terriorist who has killed millions of people so far	"""Since 1972, Carson""s followers implemented policies that influenced world-wide prohibitions on the use of DDT, resulting in millions of deaths by malaria. Carson""s subversions served as an example and inspiration for aspiring environmental-terrorists. 30 to 50 MILLION DEAD !"" pesticidetruths.com http://pesticidetruths.com..."	PRO	173
173	S932cc55a-Ac0a7a8e2	Rachael Carson was an eco-terriorist who has killed millions of people so far	My opponent clearly has no idea about how to properly conduct a debate. He has ignored all my statements and carried on ranting and raving endlessly. There are many colourful and negative adjectives to describe such a person. I think I will just punch a few holes through the wall instead. BANG! BANG!! BANG!!! There........... that's better. I feel better now! If you are intending to vote on this issue, consider my opponents lack of response to my statements first.	CON	174
174	S8ccad7c0-A1c529e08	As Long as we Continue to Eat Meat, Beastiality should be Legalized!	"My opponent suggests: ""At no point in the opening round was it ever stated that the resolution of the debate was: Slaughtering animals for food is more unethical than bestiality. I had only the title to go by in figuring out what the resolution was. I was also under the impression that we were arguing about eating animals, not slaughtering them."" Let's reexamine my opening argument: ""Should beastiality be legalized? My first initial response to this question was NO, definitely NO!!! But as I started pondering this question, I posed a new point, ""Well we eat them."" IF BEASTIALITY IS ILLEGAL DOESN'T THAT SUGGEST THAT SLAUGHTERING ANIMALS SHOULD BE ILLEGAL TOO? Millions of animals are tortured everyday at slaughter houses. Animals are kept in poor conditions; confined to small spaces; chickens have their beaks clipped when they are chicks because they poke each other to death; calves are pulled away from their mothers at a young age; animals are pumped with numerous antibiotics, hormones ,and drugs. All so that we can have that nice piece of meat for dinner. HOW CAN SOCIETY CONDONE THIS TYPE OF CRUELTY TOWARDS ANIMALS BUT CONDEMN BEASTIALITY, it doesn't make any sense. Either both should be illegal, or neither."" My opponent chooses not to acknowledge the underlying moral premise in regards to the statement, ""As Long as We Continue to Eat Meat, Beastiality should be Legalized."" My opponent states: ""The resolution of this debates seems to be changing based on what is most convenient for my opponent."" As one can see, my arguments have stayed consistent throughout the entire debate. It seems that my opponent has taken my claim and is ""conveniently"" twisting it to best suit his approach. Again, he chooses not to acknowledge the underlying moral premise for the argument. My opponent states: ""Thanks to my opponent for providing this information about the behavior of animals in the wild. I do not consider it relevant to this debate."" I have examined the SEXUAL behavior of animals, not as my opponent vaguely put it. While my opponent does not consider the sexual behavior of animals relevant to beastiality, I, on the other hand, find it imperative to examine this behavior because it provides us with information of how animals interact sexually with one another. As I previously stated, animals can enjoy sexual experiences. It is this very notion that an animal may experience enjoyment that one begins to ponder the question of whether an animal may experience this enjoyment within an inter-species sexual relationship i.e.., ""dog mounting a human's leg."" I challenged my opponent's application of the word ""sentient,"" by providing the definition of ""sentient"" found in the Merriam Webster Dictionary. Sentient: 1: responsive to or conscious of sense impressions 2: aware 3: finely sensitive in perception or feeling www.merriam-webster.com Most animals are aware, conscious, responsive to sense, and also have the ability to perceive and feel. Therefore, the application of the word ""sentient"" applies not solely to the human species, but, in fact, encompasses the majority of mammal species. In response, my opponent states: ""By a sentience creature, I mean: a conscious, self-aware, autonomously acting individual with the capacity for moral judgment, abstract reasoning, and the ability to communicate these concepts through a syntactical language. That is what I mean by sentient for the purpose of this debate and until a word is created with that exact definition, I will continue to use the word ""sentient"" to express that meaning. I apologize for not defining the term better earlier. In this case, it is extremely clear that my definition would refer only to humans and not to other animals."" I would like to enquire as to where my opponent retrieved this definition? He has not provided a citation for this statement. Nor has he provided citations for the majority of his claims throughout this entire debate. I believe his definition of ""sentient"" to be concocted based on his own personal opinion. Therefore, without supplying a citation for this definition it must be dismissed. My opponent states: ""Humans, by virtue of the fact that they are sentient, can be expected to uphold a different moral standard than non-sentient beings or objects."" To set it straight, all life that is ""aware and capable of conscious thought"" is considered a sentient being (this includes most animals.) An infant is not capable of moral reasoning, but one would still classify an infant as a ""sentient being."" Again, my opponent's statement is a contradiction. Yes, it is true, that humans are held to a ""different moral standard"" than all other species. It is also true that, overall, beastiality could be considered unethical. But, don't forget, we are evaluating the pain and/or suffering experienced by animals. If animals can be coerced into sexual encounters in the natural world, they are not experiencing any more pain and/or suffering brought on by a human. One would have to prove that beastiality creates more harm than an animal would normally experience in order to conclude that beastiality is inhumane. While it is unethical for humans to ""coerce"" other humans into sexual acts, these are moral standards that we set for humans, not animals. If humans set moral standards for all species, don't you think we would be preventing the sexual coercion of all animals? Another example is the fact that humans take part in the breeding of animals for profit, certain physical attributes, success, and several other purposes. In many instances animals are forced into copulation with one another to produce offspring. There are certain seasons when some animals prefer to mate. Forcing animals into an artificial environment where they are coerced into a sexual encounter with another animal is no crueler than beastiality. This example also supports the fact that society can condone one form of cruelty but condemn another without sufficient justification. My opponent states: ""How is having sex with a non-consenting individual immoral? Well, I never thought I would have to explain the ethics of why rape is wrong up here goes anyway."" No one ever argued that ""having sex with a non-consenting individual"" is moral. Therefore, what my opponent is implying is irrelevant. My opponent makes claim to the ""non-aggression principle"": ""Simply, animals are protected from acts which cause pain unto them but not acts which kill them…"" Again, my opponent did not supply a citation for this claim. Which could be possibly concocted from thin air. Regardless, one can argue that slaughtering animals is an ""aggressive"" act. Since the slaughtering of animals is the unnecessary use of force, which inflicts, to some extent, pain and/or suffering on the animal involved. ""Bleeding an animal out,"" is not my idea of ""non-aggressive"" behavior. There are many flaws in my opponent's proposal, from beginning to end. For example: 1. The killing of humans during war can be justified. Therefore, the killing of humans is not always unethical. I will refrain from listing all the flaws that are present. But one can see that my opponent's proposal crumbles under critical examination. To conclude, I will propose that human morality needs to run in conjunction with our practices. If humans are concerned about the inhumane treatment of animals, we should really stop and ask ourselves is the slaughter of animals humane. And if our moral standards accept this form of cruelty towards animals why are other subjects, like beastiality condemned? One does not have to necessarily agree with the ethics of beastiality to see that slaughtering animals is crueler than having sex with them."	PRO	175
175	Se3d235e2-Aaa11cf2d	There is no evidence that vegetarians are more compassionate	"""A Case Against Vegetarianism"". Sulekha.com. Jan 23 2002 - ""if we are vegetarians, does it follow that we will be kind and compassionate? Speaking in the Indian context, it would not seem so. Looking at some sordid and conspicuous aspects of Indian society, we are anything but kind and compassionate."""	PRO	176
176	Sabf80b24-Afc566d88	Antibiotics should be heavily restricted.	GOOD LUCK!	PRO	177
177	Sabf80b24-Afbf963a6	Antibiotics should be heavily restricted.	Alright, I'll bite. I'm a microbiologist, so I know quite a bit about antibiotics and their importance. I'll be interested to see how you plan to restrict their usage without putting many patients at grave risk. I'll let you explain your case before I make my arguments, and just use this round as acceptance.	CON	178
178	S1900cfd9-A7b033810	Animal Abuse should be stopped	I accept.	CON	179
179	Saeeb3794-Aaa8a4183	Animal Testing should be allowed	I agree to debate against the topic,Pro.	CON	180
180	S528d0e3f-Aeb4e0a62	Dog Fighting Should Be Legal	I would like to begin by thanking Danielle for this challenge. It is a delight to be debating someone as intellegent and formidable as you. Judging by your previous debates, I will be in for a challenge. A quick reminder to the readers that this debate is not about the morality of dog fighting, rather it is about the legality of it. I also want to note that this is an emotional topic and I ask the voters to please vote according to the arguments, not on emotion. Thank you.	CON	181
181	S528d0e3f-A11dc0ab2	Dog Fighting Should Be Legal	Sad to see a forfeit. Hope all is well. Extend arguments.	CON	182
182	Sadee5bf1-Adf577f36	vegetarians visit hospitals 22% less often than meat eaters	he healthiness of a vegetarian diet is perhaps shown most dramatically by the fact that lifelong vegetarians visit hospitals 22% less often than meat eaters – and for shorter stays! Vegetarians tend to be fitter than meat eaters – as well as healthier – and many of the world’s most successful athletes follow a strictly vegetarian diet.	PRO	183
183	Sefcd9117-Ae8e16f45	Animals should be used for Medical Research	My opponent has forfeited the last round. Since my opponent was unable to argue, I am unable to argue back.	CON	184
184	Sefcd9117-Ae374a923	Animals should be used for Medical Research	I am going to keep my side of this rather short. How about, since humans fall under the category of animals, let's use humans for medical research as well. Why wouldn't you? The amount of risk there is? Well what about the risk for animals? Why, since when is a human life worth more than an animal's life? Well no duh it is to us, because WE'RE freaking HUMANS. But that doesn't mean that's truly the case. Humans are not more valuable to the earth, only to themselves. If we killed one of ourselves trying to do research, there would be a big uproar, and the family of the dead ones would want revenge! But animals such as chimpanzees, dogs, cats, and all other X Factor animals actually feel for their family and their young ones. They have a since of care and love and passion. They would lose something, too. Why are we willing to break the hearts of one family that might not walk with their backs straight up? Why is the fact that fur and a different walking stance mean a difference in how we treat one or the other? If some species above our heads took us for it's own use, we would have a big uproar, but because we are at the top we can do whatever the hell we want, can't we?	CON	185
185	S8287514f-A5078eec1	animals should not be killed for any reason	"I'll accept the debate. Thing called a ""Food Chain""."	CON	186
186	S8287514f-Ad7a4d074	animals should not be killed for any reason	Yes lions are allowed to eat other animals, how else are they going to live, they can't excalty go to Coles and buy fresh zebra?	PRO	187
187	Sedd9358d-A303bbb61	Meat production should be significantly reduced	I stand in negation of the above resolution. As my opponent has stated that this round is merely for the purposes of acquiring an opponent, I will refrain from arguing this round.	CON	188
188	Se511ec5-A48328c0b	Number 2 is a lie, there ARE alternatives to animal testing! Other companies use them, and animal testing doesnt prove anything, because although close, they arent people.	Most likely your teacher had an allergic reaction of some sort, because a computer cannot always predict an allergic reaction from person to person. Almost all products I use arent tested on animals, and they are actually better than the few things I have that are. I am going to get everyone I know to stop buying products tested on animals.	PRO	189
189	Se511ec5-A75102ffb	Number 2 is a lie, there ARE alternatives to animal testing! Other companies use them, and animal testing doesnt prove anything, because although close, they arent people.	My teacher used a non-animal tested soap, and it literally burned her skin. It is unsafe to use products not tested on animals. AND most alternatives don’t work as well and products, like that soap could be dangerous and harmful substances. Alternatives such as computer simulation cannot compare to the real thing. its like a thief replacing a black smith’s gold with stone and hope he wont notice. Alternatives are not reliable.	CON	190
190	Scce0602e-A7955ed21	Every adult in first world countries should be vegan.	good f*cking god you doin the same exclusion sh*t and not mentioning my brothers back east?	CON	191
191	Scce0600f-A9bf654e	Every adult in first world countries should be vegan.	My opponent's round three argument is an ad hominem attack.	PRO	192
192	Scce0600f-A7c9ac15f	Every adult in first world countries should be vegan.	I hope BLM kills your f*cking bleach skin family	CON	193
193	Scce0600f-A4e00e4c8	Every adult in first world countries should be vegan.	f*ck you	CON	194
194	Se3d235e2-A6c119d5b	Dominion and meat-eating can and should be excercised responsibly.	"The notion of man's dominion over animals need not be thought of as a blank check for man to exploit animals. Indeed, it may be appropriate to connect the notion of ""dominion"" to stewardship"" over animals. Yet, humans can be good stewards of animals while continuing to eat them. It is merely necessary that humans maintain balance, order, and sustainability in the animal kingdom. But, again, this does not require the abandonment of meat-eating."	PRO	195
195	S8aed976f-Ab8b0eb0a	Vegetarianism: we should stop eating other animals.	Look, this is my first debate and I really don't know. I just have a complex way of thinking about things. So don't take anything personally, because I'm really only 12 but I'm in 10th grade because I skipped grades. Anyway, I believe in animal rights, but I think that if animals are killed, we must eat it! I think that if you petition the meat companies that make the meat to not make much of it, then there would no be a waste of meat!	CON	196
196	S8aed976f-A8d2d8d73	Vegetarianism: we should stop eating other animals.	Without animals to eat, we cannot get the nutrients we need. if we did not eat animals, we would be weak and feeble! What a waste of a life.	CON	197
197	S42c351d0-Ad0da6ccf	Children in the US should be exposed and encouraged to eat insects	"My debate will flow as follows: 1. Stigma against insect eating will make it unlikely to be popular. 2. Insects do not meet high food standards in the US. 1. Stima against insect eating will make it unlikely to be popular The con takes most of their argument to speaking of the stigma that many Americans face when being told to eat insects. This is why children are the ones being indoctrinated, not the adults. In addition, much of their foods will not have to have insects visible as shown in source 1 of this round. This is merely one example, others have been ""Chirp Chips"" and Cricket Cookies like those found in the sixfoods source. As children consume these products, generally at lunches and teachers in the classroom explain and indoctrinate them in to this idea, they will discover the difference between ""good"" and ""bad"" insects (FAO). Even if it fails for several generations, each generation will have more experience and comfort with the idea, creating a loop of increasing effectiveness. 2. Insects do not meet high food standards in the US Insects are not banned for consumption by the Food and Drug Administration. Therefore, all insects sold for the purposes of consumption are legal so long as they fit the rules imposed by the FDA. You will find MarxFoods to be an example of this. Their place of business is in Seattle, Washington. They also sell various insects there. As they label these insects for human consumption, the full extent of US policy in relation to food safety is applied to MarxFoods. Because they are still selling insect products, it is obvious that insects can and do meet the high food standards of Americans. - Lastly, the con has failed to address my point on population strain so that extends to this argument. Sources: http://www.cbc.ca... http://sixfoods.com... http://www.marxfoods.com..."	PRO	198
198	S42c351d0-A6b7be5ad	Children in the US should be exposed and encouraged to eat insects	Alright then, round 1 is a warm up and preparation round I see? While good luck to you in this debate, and we shall see who gains the upperhand.	CON	199
199	Se3d235e2-Abf445414	Vegetarians adopt a proper philosophy toward animals	"Albert Einstein - ""It is my view that the vegetarian manner of living by its purely physical effect on the human temperament would most beneficially influence the lot of mankind.""["	PRO	200
200	Se3d235e2-Ad8c51255	Vegetarians avoid consuming chemicals related to animal pain/death.	"Animal death involves a high degree of animal pain, which causes the release of many chemicals into the bloodstream of animals. These chemicals are consumed by meat-eaters. If the notion of ""you are what you eat"" applies, meat-eaters are consuming pain, suffering, and death, which some believe lead to greater aggression, anger, and insensitivity in humans."	PRO	201
201	Se3d235e2-A1d5914df	From a utilitarian perspective morality should not be based on species differences	The best moral objective is to produce the greatest good for the greatest number of humans and animals. Differences do not matter in this equation.	PRO	202
202	Sc11cc3ad-A8c9829e1	Labeling ensures vegetarians can avoid GM food animal ingredients.	For religious or ethical reasons, many individuals want to avoid eating animal products, including animal DNA. GM foods often use animal DNA in some form or another. Labeling helps ensure that these individuals can avoid consuming such animal products.	PRO	203
