	id	conclusion	premises	stance	rank
0	Sedab086a-A37f9df85	Golf is a sport	Once again, thank you for taking the time to make this debate happen. I would like to start off by asking a question to Con. If you think Golf isn't a sport, then why do sports agents, manufacturers, and sponsors consider golf to be a sport? Second, Golf is now returning to the Summer Olympics in 2016 and if golf wasn't a sport, it wouldn't be in the Olympics.	PRO	1
1	Sedab086a-Ab27bd708	Golf is a sport	"People can consider anything but that doesn't make it right. For example, many people consider Great Britain to be a country when it isn't and some people consider the UK to be a country when it's really 3 and a half countries. Just because something is considered a certain way doesn't make it so. Just because it's in the Olympics doesn't mean it's a sport. They have concerts at the Olympics and they aren't sports. They are side attractions and that's all golf will be. Burning 800 calories doesn't make it a sport. You would burn 800 calories for sleeping for 9 days. Does that mean that sleeping for 9 days is a sport because you burn 800 calories? Now that I am done refuting, here is my argument. Please address each of these points in your next argument otherwise these points will all stand. Golf better matches the defintion of a game than a sport. Merriam-Webster defines a game as an 'activity engaged in for diversion or amusement.' Think about John Daly. If it can be done while drinking and smoking, then it is not a sport. Golf is not a sport. It is a skill. It's not a sport if you don't move. It isn't a sport if it can be played by a golfer with a broken leg (Tiger Woods in he 2008 U.S. Open). Mike Freeman, National Columnist at CBSSports.com, stated the following in his July 20, 2009 article titled ""Old-man Watson Proves Golf Is Far from Legitimate Sport,"" published on cbssports.com: ""Golf isn't a sport. The amount of athleticism required to play golf is about the same as it is to be a good bowler. How else do you explain that a man who is nearly 60 [Tom Watson] came extremely close to winning a golf major? This story might be inspirational but for the sport of golf it should also be mortifying. Actually, it's a tad embarrassing. What does it say about a sport when it takes a playoff round to finally beat Watson despite Watson's age? It says golf isn't a sport, that's what it says... There are no 59-year-old running backs, outfielders or point guards because the level of athleticism is so extreme in those sports that if someone Watson's age tried to play them they'd get broken into tiny pieces... The athleticism required to play golf is so minimal, it's negligible."" Dave Hollander, JD, author and sports columnist, stated the following in his May 12, 2008 article titled ""Is Golf A Sport? Seriously.,"" published on the Huffington Post website: ""Golf does not even rise to the level of 'a good walk spoiled' [quote attributed t Mark Twain] because the primary action of walking is not required. So says PGA Tour v. Martin (2001) where the Supreme Court ordered the PGA to allow disabled golfer Casey Martin to use a golf cart in between holes rather than walk... How can you call something a sport where being ambulatory is not a basic minimum physical requirement? Think of the mythological gods and heroes who personified the highest physical virtues: Hermes (speed), Hercules (strength), Aphrodite (stamina). There's got to be at least some running to call it a sport. I'd prefer some contact, too. But ""no walking required""? You call that a sport? Just because it's difficult doesn't mean it's a sport. Computer programming and brain surgery are difficult. They are not sports. Just because you compete doesn't make it a sport either. Pretzel vendors compete. Art galleries compete. Hell, a spelling bee is a competition. Golf is recreation--something to pass the time. It is no more a sport than marbles or cat's cradle. That takes me to my final point: Golf is boring. You want to get a nap in on Sunday afternoon? Turn on golf. Looking for that TV show to help the kids get some shut-eye? Turn on golf. Do you want to see the least amount of physical prowess combined with the greatest dearth of raw emotion? Turn on golf."	CON	2
2	Sedab086a-Aaf256b9f	Golf is a sport	"First, I would like to thank Con for making this debate happen. Now, what is a sport? and what is golf? Golf, is a ""game in which a player using special clubs attempts to sink a ball with as few strokes as possible into each of the 9 or 18."" [1] Sport, is a ""physical activity engaged in for pleasure: a particular activity (as an athletic game)."" [2] Looking at the definition of sport, provided by Merrian-Webster, Golf fits the definition of the word ""sport."" Lastly, Sports require coordinated muscle use, and the golf swing uses at least 17 muscle groups in the coordinated movement of the hands, wrists, arms, abdomen, and legs. [3] Thank you and good luck [1] Merrian-Webster [2] Meriian-Webster [3] British Medical Journal"	PRO	3
3	S331dbe36-Aec018aad	Is golf a sport	opinion- a view or judgment formed about something, not necessarily based on fact or knowledge. Saying golf is boring is an opinion and is not representative of the whole population. I happen to find golf very interesting and found myself loving every moment of the masters. Therefore saying golf is boring is not factual, golf is a form of entertainment for me and many others, so golf should be represented as a sport.	PRO	4
4	S331dbe36-A48e81bc	Is golf a sport	"Saying that golf does involve rigorous activity, is not really an opinion. It is a fact. You stated ""Golf is the most boring activity known to man"" This is a textbook example for an opinion. Me saying that golf is a sport is not an opinion. The definition of a sport is ""an athletic activity requiring skill or physical prowess and often of acompetitive nature, as racing, baseball, tennis, golf, bowling, wrestling, boxing, hunting, fishing, etc."" So me saying that golf is a sport isn't actualy a opinion it's a fact."	PRO	5
5	S331dbe36-A1ab1fd44	Is golf a sport	I play golf and I practice every day, to my surprise I found that some people disagree with this being a sport. People who view this topic differently may suggest that golf doesn't have rigorous activity although I beg to differ. Golf isn't just the game itself it is the preparation and dedication along with it. As part of my training to be the best I include arm workouts, core workouts, and even lifting weights with my wrists. Many people who believe golf is not a sport have not done all of this preparation. Nor have they played 18 holes in the scorching sun while carrying an on average 20 pound bag. Then have to step up to the tee and give this shot your all. The truth is golf is a sport and that's final, so don't say how easy golf is without experiencing what I do, thank you.	PRO	6
6	Sbb04abe6-A259c1dbe	Golf is not a sport	"Jlconservative, for future reference I have no harsh feelings towards your favoring of conserative government; just a light jab to keep you on your toes. Before I tie up my argument i'd like to point out that when you stated, ""...we might as well remove Hunting, Fishing, Krokae, Polo,Archery,Marksmanship, even surfing..."" you made quite a noticeable spelling error. Please clarify with me in your response if you meant to reference the golf-like sport of ""Croquet"", rather than your spelling of ""Krokae"". Yes, I do agree. If, golf is not a sport, then most of these ""sports"" should be removed from the list as well, which I believe they should. These ""sports"", much like golf, require little physical strain, training, or duress. Some of them even lack the concept of competition (fishing, hunting). What burns me up the most about this ""sport"" is how the media overhypes it. You can't turn on the TV without seeing an ad for the PGA Tour, the triumphs and tragedies of Tiger Woods, and the ridiculous amounts of money they earn by knocking a white ball into a hole. I can tolerate (to a point) the ""sports"" you referenced being referred to as ""sports"" mainly because they are avoided by the media, for the purpose that some take these ""sports"" as low thrill, leading to little interest. What sickens me the most is that the media has allowed golf to stand out among these hobbies. And heaven forbid that the ""gentleman's sport"" of golf goes down in history, right in there with baseball, as a great American pastime. Golf is not a sport."	PRO	7
7	S2c13cc23-Add292560	Is golf asport	In Hogwarts, we don't need to walk. We can fly on brooms, we can teleport. Golf is not a walking sport. When people think about golf, they think about the swing and stance. Walking is NOT a key part in golf.	CON	8
8	S2c13cc23-A46f62d8e	Is golf asport	GOLF IS NOT A SPORT!!!! They only motion that goes into golf is bending down the get the ball, bending down to put the ball on the ground, and swing. You said that they must walk all day, but they can drive in a GOLF cart.	CON	9
9	Sedab08a8-Aeb15fa1e	Golf is a sport	Oh yeah golf tournaments whoo so intense and so much fun for guys to watch them hit golf balls for 24 holes!!!! The only one tournament people really know is the masters!!!! I think this sport is more boring than nascar at least there you hear fast cars go by you!!!! All the excitement you will get watching golf is a hole in one or a stupid trick shot!!!!	CON	10
10	Sedab08a8-A537c0a9	Golf is a sport	How is golf a sport???? All you do is hit a golf ball on a field like a snobby brat!!!! Nobody can cheer for you and you are quiet and standing in the hot sun!!!!! Whatever happens on golf that is exciting and will get your heartbeat pumping?? Yeah he hit a hole in one ohhhh what a day to watch!!!!! So I'm ready for this debate are you!!!	CON	11
11	Sbb04abe6-A43a15a87	Golf is not a sport	"Kenicks, I thank you personally for the jab to keep me on my toes and the grammar error you so efficiently spotted out. Look,this vendetta you have over golf and the sport is understandable, it does seem silly that while soldiers are risking life,teachers are over worked, and hard working single business owners are struggling to make it threw financially that people are getting paid millions to hit a white ball into a hole, and this can be said about any sport and that is perfectly understandable. However your debate topic was not that golfers get over paid, or that golfers should not make as much money as baseball players, the point you started was that Golf is not a sport when in fact it is. Again your vendetta against the sport is based purely on your opinion. I have personal experience that golf is a game of extreme skill, and mental duress with some physical extortion. The fact is Golf meets the criteria according to every definition of ""sport"" available. Therefore in the minds of myself and the common English language golf is and should be considered a sport."	CON	12
12	Sa2449587-A25a1c8d9	Baseball is better than golf	Golf uses your mind in more ways than baseball does. Although it is more popular is some places, golf truly is one of the biggest sports in Florida and in California. Using a golf cart is optional, and it is more fun to watch golf on television. Easy.	CON	13
13	S331dbe36-A2e2c0f7b	Is golf a sport	"""truth is golf is a sport and that's final, so don't say how easy golf is without experiencing what I do"" ""suggest that golf doesn't have rigorous activity although I beg to differ."" These statements sound pretty opinionated to me. Seems like a bit of hypocrisy claiming that I'm using opinions as arguments when Pro is doing the exact same thing. I just assumed if he could do so then my opinions would be just as valid."	CON	14
14	Sf6c3ab3f-A5270390c	does golf is a real sport	"hahaha okok So here is my point Obviously a sport... I believe that golf is a sport. But we can't say anything if we don't define what a sport is. Golf is ""physical activity engaged in for pleasure: a particular activity (as an athletic game)."" (Merriam-Webster) Golf clearly fits the definition provided by Merriam Webster. Finally, Sports agents, sponsors, and sporting goods manufacturers consider golf to be a sport."	PRO	15
15	Sbb04abe6-Af6db3e8c	Golf is not a sport	"Jlconservative, I see your theory of backing up your belief that golf is a sport with a few snappy dictionary definitions, although, based on your username, I dont see your theory that i'm assuming you follow that ""the free market will prevail"". Mind if i quote your closing statement? ""I think that we can all agree Golf is a game of rules and skill therefore it is a sport."" Ok, so therefore, all games and activities which have rules and skill are sports. Take darts; this game requires the skill of throwing a pointed arrow up against a board (which i do enjoy very much), while following a set of rules: Dont throw 2 darts at once, only throw three per round, etc. Is this a sport? Take poker; this game requires the skill of, in the words of the great Kenny Rogers, ""knowing when to hold 'em and knowing when to fold 'em"", the witty intellect of knowing how much to bet at what time, keeping a poker face, and knowledge of rules and regulations of the cards and table settings. Is this a sport? Take checkers, take chess; these game also requires high intellect, planning out your next move, how to dethrone your opposition. Rules to follow are also present; where you can or cannot place your playing piece, whose turn goes in who's order, etc. Is this a sport? Take Scrabble; the skill of word-building is present, one must have a knack for piecing the english language together. Rules: they must be legitimate words. Is this a sport? Take Beer Pong; a game for the ages, in which one requires the skill of throwing a tiny plastic ball into a plastic cup filled with booze, the skill of being able to chug down incessant amounts of alcohol, the rules to be abided by of the proper conduct on defense, offense, shooting, rollbacking, recracking, etc. Is this a sport? You see, Jlconservative, these, along with golf, are not classified as sports, but merely hobbies. One thing they do have in common, however, is that they burn the same amount of calories as golf."	PRO	16
16	Sbb04abe6-Ae1a368b3	Golf is not a sport	"Just what is a sport? A sport is an activity or in some cases, a lifestyle, that requires a competitive drive, to be in top of your physical form, and to spend ample time studying your sport. Basketball requires months of conditioning, hours studying and practicing plays, and the desire to work with your team to be the on top of all your competition. Football and baseball require the same type of training and necessities. Even individual sports such as Cross-Country running require the desire to win, the countless hours of training to be on top of your physical form, the studying of different terrains. I'll even let NASCAR get in there; it requires the skill of being able to drive at high speeds without crashing, studying different racetracks, and definetely has that competitive edge. But golf? Come on. First of all, the only physical shape you need to be in is the ability to swing a golf club. Thats working a mere 2-3 muscles in your whole body. And you wont need to worry about walking all the way to your next spot after you hit that little white ball, because you've got your fancy golf cart to drive you there! Golf lacks the competitive drive that other sports have. Sure, you're playing against 18+ other people to get the lowest score, but you only have knowledge of one other person's score; your partners. You dont know when to come in the clutch, when to step it up, when to ""getcha head in the game"". Come on, people."	PRO	17
17	Sa2449587-A91a8f588	Baseball is better than golf	"Rebuttals- ""and it is more fun to watch golf on television."" I think it is more fun to watch baseball on television. ""golf truly is one of the biggest sports in Florida and in California"" Florida and California for golf well that is only 2. Baseball has much more."	PRO	18
18	S2c13cc23-A7e1fbc18	Is golf asport	Being a high school golfer, I get many people telling me that golf is not a sport because there is no physical activity. That is not true, We need to be in shape to walk the course while carrying our bags. Its not easy, especially when you are speed walking for four hours in extreme heat. Us golfers work out and have to watch what we eat. We can not eat unhealthy and go play golf afterwards. The definition of a sport is: an activity involving physical exertion and skill in which an individual or team competes against another or others for entertainment. Which golf does apply. It takes skill, hard work and dedication to be good, just like any other sport. We compete against other schools, we have tournaments, and we work just as long and hard as any other sport on the planet.	PRO	19
19	Sedab086a-Af53202c8	Golf is a sport	Hello this is a debate about golf. Some people on DDO think that golf is not a sport. I believe that statement is false. So I will be challenging someone to a debate about this topic. DEBATE FORMAT; 3 rounds The voting period is 6 months. You get 72 hours to argue Up to 8000 characters. The First round shall be only acceptance. The second round, own arguments. and third round, countering the opponent. Good luck and remember, PLEASE HAVE FUN!	PRO	20
20	Sedab08a8-A58c94516	Golf is a sport	ok golf is a sport.. just like anyother sport you're in the sun so no argument there! and people can cheer for you! have you not heard of pro golf tournaments? people go to watch them, and it is a big deal. And it is a sport just like any other it takes time and dedication to master not just anybody can go whack a ball and go pro!	PRO	21
21	Sedab086a-A1b2b69e2	Golf is a sport	For my point, I look at the definition of sport: An activity involving physical exertion and skill in which an individual or team competes against another or others for entertainment. You have yours but this one is also correct so I will use this one from Google Dictionary. Exertion refers to vigorous activity which golfing is not. Your definition calls golf a game, not a sport. And based upon my definition of sport, (which is also correct) golf is not a sport. This is stated by both you and I.	CON	22
22	Sb032fa0a-A75c4305e	Basketball is worse than golf!	Basketball is defined as, a game played between two teams of five players, in which goals are scored by throwing a ball through a netted hoop fixed at each end of the court. Basketball is popular world wide and is suitable for all ages http://channels.isp.netscape.com.... Golf and basketball are similar in few ways according to http://thegratefulgolfer.com..., but how good are they in terms of your health? Basketball is definitely a faster running game compared to golf. To play golf though, you have to have patience and good eye sight, which could fail some people. Basketball is definitely much better than golf for the fitness reasons of (http://www.betterhealth.vic.gov.au...): -burn calories (an hour of basketball can burn 630–750 calories) -build endurance -improve balance and coordination -develop concentration and self-discipline -build up muscle -take care of your body more (stretches/warmup/warm down) Basketball is a more competitive sport compared to golf. Making you work towards something, and hopefully achieving it. This might be as simple as wining a game or be a fluent shooter. People at all ages can play it, and all you need to practice is a ball and a hoop. Basketball is played by people of all ages and all abilities, meaning you can challenge yourself. If you want to be the best at basketball, you do specialised training. This evolves sprints, jumping, core, strength and conditioning and more. As basketball is played all year round and is mainly an indoor sport, so you can aim to be fit all year. Children at all levels can enjoy the game too whilst making friends. As golf only evolves a small amount of people, basketball has at least 10 players each game. http://www.livestrong.com.... Wheel chair basketball is also an option for people who have disabilities or have had an accident. However, it stops you from being able to play golf. Wheel chair basketball is most likely one of the best sports for people who have disabilities. In addition, basketball is much more preferable than golf. Linking it to higher fitness levels, more people to socialise with, get to be more motivated and everyone can participate in basketball.	CON	23
23	S2e6a0d7e-A29ba3240	Golf is better than soccer.	Golf is a wayyyyy better sport and dumb old soccer. Golf takes patients and you have to be good at it.....PLUS it makes wayy more money. Also you get alot of free cool things just for playing and get to play on beautiful golf courses on a big field.....who doesnt like that?!...And the BEST part is GOLF CARTS!! :P	PRO	24
24	Sedab086a-A5b2d67d8	Golf is a sport	I accept your argument. I say golf is not a sport.	CON	25
25	Sb032fa0a-A3ec4276c	Basketball is worse than golf!	Rules: accept the debate and write one into, at least 3 points and a conclusion Golf is a simpall sporrt compared to basketball. All you have to do is hit the boall and go after it. It is much more fun compared to basketball. Firstly, golf is ann enjoyablle and relaxed way to get excersice whilst also doing a sportt. Seckondly, it is a moore sociall way to get to know people. Alll ages can get envolved and it is great for a family day oout. Thirdly, http://www.walkthewalkpresents.com... golf doesn't cause any injuries and is a healthy way to get more flexible. In conklusion, it is good for alll ages, you get more fit comparred to basketball and flexible, it is more simple and has less rules. http://www.braintraining101.com... has prove!	PRO	26
26	S2c13cc23-A74c4a0a9	Is golf asport	If your comparing Hogwarts (which is some made up thing in Harry Potter) then you shouldn't be in this debate. At least I am getting exercise instead of living in the fantasy world. . No one can fly, broom sticks are NOT magical, so get your head straight. Golf is considered a sport because there is physical exercise and the ability to play. It a hard sport to pick up on and be good at. If you think golf is just chasing after a white ball, and riding in a cart. then you are wrong. Why don't you go and play 18 holes, fast pace walking (NO CART ALLOWED), and then tell me how you feel. You might as well just quit now, because you will lose.	PRO	27
27	S6b8ef422-A522e0571	Golf is not a physical sport	Many thanks to Merritt for accepting this debate! My apologies for taking so long to post my first argument. Time has not been on my side lately. Golf, according to sporteology.com, is the 8th most popular sport in the world. [1] It has about 400 million fans across Europe and the USA, which, thankfully, allows a wealth of information to be available about the intricacies and physics of the sport. The “Physicality” of Golf Two of the things that golf fans will run to when trying to defend it as a physical sport are: 1. The fact that players have to tote heavy bags of clubs around all day, and 2. The force of the swing. Let’s start with the bags of clubs. These can get pretty heavy, ranging from 30-50 pounds. [2] So this obviously appears to be a valid argument concerning golf being a physical sport. But is it really as physical as other popular games? CalorieLab.com has a great average calorie calculator that shows you how many calories will be burned for a person of any weight. Let’s look at the calories that will be burned for a 200-pound man in various sports. Basketball game: 637 calories/hour Boxing, sparring: 728 calories/hour Baseball: 364 calories/hour Football: 728 calories/hour Ice hockey: 637 calories/hour Rugby: 819 calories/hour Soccer: 837 calories/hour Now for our oh-so-physical game of golf: 319 calories per hour. Not exactly how you would want to lose weight. In fact, one can burn exactly the same amount of calories just shooting hoops, and MORE by skateboarding and fishing out of a stream with waders! [3] As a matter of fact, one can make a very strong case that NASCAR is much more physical than golf (and a LOT of sports in general). NASCAR drivers experience cockpits that heat up to 120 degrees Fahrenheit while wearing a firesuit, helmet and gloves. This causes them, by sweating, to lose 10 or more pounds in a single race, to say nothing about calories burned! They can experience 2-3 Gs of force in turns on a fast racetrack, roughly the same amount that astronauts experience during space shuttle launches. Forget open-wheel drivers, who sometimes deal with 4-5 Gs! Shaquille O’Neal, an accomplished basketball player, took a few laps in a NASCAR race car and said he can’t remember a game or practice that was more demanding. Show me a golf player who’s bigger and stronger than Shaq! [4] [5] [6] Golf swing Golf fans also seem to cry out that learning to swing a golf club correctly is very difficult. I would agree that it is difficult to master accuracy and precision, but impossible? No, and physical, definitely not. According to golfswing.com , a golfer can put up to 4000 pounds, or 18,000 Newtons, of force on the ball. But according to Patrick Drane of the Baseball Research Center, a baseball player, who, by the way, has to reverse a ball coming at him at about 90 miles per hour, can put up to 8000 pounds of force on the ball, which works out to over 35,000 Newtons!! [7] [8] Now we can look more in detail at the athletics involved. We can look all day at golf players that are in shape and compare them to other strong and fast athletes of other sports, but let’s go the other way and look at the most out-of-shape players in professional sports. Perhaps the heaviest player in pro golf is Guy Boros. He weighs 265 pounds and is easily recognizable for his large girth. Boros has several parallels in pro baseball, namely Prince Fielder, who weighs 275, and David Ortiz, 250. But their weight doesn’t limit their athletic ability. Prince Fielder has been called the “strongest man in baseball” by his teammates, and David Ortiz bench presses 400 pounds. [9] [10] Now look at American football. Albert Haynesworth was one of the biggest and heaviest football players ever. But the 6’6, 350-pound monster ran a 4.82 second 40 yard dash at the combine (ok, he was 317 at the time) and could bench press 425 pounds. [11] [12] Can Guy Boros do any of this? He is overweight, and there’s no indication he can bench press anything other than his bag of golf clubs. In other sports, however, athletes who have a lot of weight are also some of the strongest players in their respective sport. I might also point out that golf is a preferred sport among senior citizens, unlike baseball, basketball and football. Stewart Cink himself, a six-time PGA winner, has admitted that “physically, golf is not super-demanding.” [13] So far, I am satisfied that I have shown that golf definitely is not “characterized by especially rough and forceful physical activity.” I do not deny that golf contains many skills that take a long time to master, but beyond that, it is not a physical sport. Carrying a bag of clubs around is not near as physical as a basketball game, a football game, a baseball game, or even driving through left turns for 3 hours. I look forward to Con’s reply. Sources: [1] http://www.sporteology.com... [2]http://www.cleveland.com... [3]http://calorielab.com... [4]http://www.streetdirectory.com... [5]http://usatoday30.usatoday.com... [6]http://quest.nasa.gov... [7]http://www.golfswing.com.au... [8]http://www.uml.edu... [9]http://sports.espn.go.com... [10] http://www.bostonglobe.com... [11] http://en.wikipedia.org... [12] http://usatoday30.usatoday.com... [13] http://bleacherreport.com...	PRO	28
28	S2e6a0d7e-Aa4f9459c	Golf is better than soccer.	"AFFIRMATIVE ARGUMENTS Golf takes patience. This statement might be true but that's about the only skill you need. In soccer you have to have GREAT coordination, dribbling skills, shooting skills, blocking skills, guarding skills Makes way more money If you take the average of all the money that golfers make and take the average of all the money that soccer players make.. soccer players will have alot higher average free cool things you get free things from soccer also it is a sport and sports have sponsors which means free things... and plus cool is entirely an opinion so there's no way she can prove this argument. You get to play on beautiful courses on a big field soccer just so happens to also be on a big field. and beautiful yet again is an opinion. Golf Carts what makes golf carts so great. there is no reasoning for her argument.(another opinion) NEW ARGUMENTS Soccer is the biggest sport in the world without a doubt and is the number one sport in just about every country including asia and africa. i have a quot from articlebase.com stating ""there was a global television audience of 49 billion people for the 2002 World Cup alone."" Soccer is just as hard as golf if not harder. also from articlebase.com stating ""This game can be as frustrating as golf, as physical as football and hockey, as erratic as baseball, and as exciting as basketball."" and I also had a question for the pro.. do you believe that soccer players or golfers are more respected in the world (note how i said world and not america)"	CON	29
29	S6b8ef422-A839e2339	Golf is not a physical sport	"Let me clarify my stance before you accept. I DO believe that golf is a sport in the strictest sense of the word, that is, in the competitive and recreational sense only. The definition of ""sport"": ""A source of diversion; recreation."" This, I believe is the only way that golf meets the definition of ""sport."" The word also has another definition: ""physical activity engaged in for pleasure; a particular activity (as an athletic game) so engaged in."" This is where golf fails to meet the definition of a sport- in the physical sense of the word. Here is the definition of ""physical"" that I will be using in this debate: ""characterized by especially rough and forceful physical activity."" Golf does not meet this definition. It will be Con's job to argue against this stance. First round is for acceptance. Best of luck to my opponent. http://www.merriam-webster.com... http://www.merriam-webster.com..."	PRO	30
30	Sedab08a8-Adbc335b1	Golf is a sport	golf is a sport no doubt. it takes pure skill to be able to play the sport and if you can go pro in a activity then it should be a sport	PRO	31
31	S7768222e-Adc0338c6	Golf is the hardest sport	Golf is far from the hardest sport. An example of a sport that is harder is wrestling. Wrestling requires a higher level of physical ability than golf, and requires more mental ability as well. In wrestling if you do not pay attention for a second, you could lose the match. In golf if you lose concentration it results in a bad shot, not necessarily losing a tournament. The opposite effect happens on wrestling happens, you could lose instantly. As a wrestler for seven years and a golfer for five, i can promise you i speak the truth. I have won matches and lost matches because of a split second decision, but losing concentration in golf just means a bad shot. Wrestling requires more mental ability by far because you must focus, and react in a very short time.	CON	32
32	S7768222e-Aaf80531e	Golf is the hardest sport	Golf challenges not only requires physical fitness but you need to have the strongest mental game to succeed in golf therefor having the hardest sport	PRO	33
33	S331dbe36-A3a12ced6	Is golf a sport	"Sport: an activity involving physical exertion and skill in which an individual or team competes against another or others for entertainment. ""For entertainment."" Golf is the most boring activity known to man. And that's final. Case closed."	CON	34
34	Sbb04abe6-A1fdac81c	Golf is not a sport	Kenicks, I'm glad I finally get a debate against you. I have had a few nasty ones on this site mostly personal attacks because I am a conservative, mind if we just keep it clean and about Golf? we can debate about politics some other time. First of all I want to say that every definition I can pull up on the internet and the two dictionaries I have here at the house all come up with the same definition, that a sport is something that has guidelines, and rules, and requires skill along with SOME physical extortion. It is my opinion Kenicks that your views on a sport is sort of arrogant ( no harm intended). I think that as Americans we get blinded on that a sport consists of body builders, or martial arts, or who can hit the hardest. However if we are going to characterize sports into these categories we must remember we are not the only country, if we try and remove golf from sporting we might as well remove Hunting, Fishing, Krokae, Polo,Archery,Marksmanship, even surfing the list can go on and on. These sporting competitions do not require much physical duress but they are a sport none the less. Now what you suggested chess, and poker, haha and beer pong would of course not be labeled as a sport. However Golfing that requires skill, and guidelines and rules, and SOME physical duress not nearly as much as tennis,football,or boxing but some fits the definition of a sport perfectly.	CON	35
35	S953298b6-Abb3af4da	Golf is the most mentally challenging sport	Physicality aside - a round of golf will cause more mental fatigue than most (if not all) sports. Reasons include: - the decisions throughout a round of golf are extremely complex - in order to succeed, a high level of CONSTANT focus is required (in most sports - especially team sports - focus is only intermittent) - most sports rely on instinctual reactions/muscle memory as a form of decision-making - golf requires a longer decision-making process which is entirely based on achieving a particular state of mind (confident visualization) - this constant effort to achieve and maintain a state of mind is more mentally demanding - especially with regard to team sports which require only intermittent focus - personal accountability (not a team sport so there is no one sharing the responsibility of succeeding)	PRO	36
36	S953298b6-A4a07f2b0	Golf is the most mentally challenging sport	Resolution - Golf is the most mentally challenging sport Note : This is not one of the most mentally challenging sport but the most. There are a lot of things that contribute to what is mentally challenging. When we are saying mentally challenging in this type of debate, it is to be inferred as on balance. Meaning in general golf is the most mentally challenging sport. While I think Golf is one of the most skillful sports, I do not think it is one of the most mentally challenging ones. I will argue in favor of Chess Chess is a sport It is even recognized as a sport by the Olympics [1] Reasons chest is more difficult It makes you think minuets and moves in advance. While golf requires you to be skilled and have precision, chess requires you just not think about the current move you are making but moves you have to make in the future. A move you make at the present turn can cause a butterfly effect for moves in later turns. It is all strategy and planning, making yourself think ahead and trying to bait your adversary into moves that could be turns in length. Chess all requires the knowledge of multiple roles and how to play them well. Each pieces has a certain way in which it is to be used, and knowing how to use the pieces, knowing how your opponent will use the pieces, and trying to figure out the best way to use them is mentally challenging as well. People even use chess as a way to improve their mental capacities. While it can improve their chess game chess also helps some people improve their mentally ability in other areas. It is often used as a training tool, and has been used in history for the same reasons [2]. It has been primarily used throughout history in military education and teaching people to read their opponents actions and moves. [3] While golf has its mentally challenging moments, it is no where near as mentally challenging as chess [1] http://www.olympic.org... [2] http://en.wikipedia.org... [3] http://uni-nke.hu...	CON	37
37	Sf6c3ab3f-A3a4f57b3	does golf is a real sport	Golf is already officially categorized as a sport!	PRO	38
38	S8b62fc9c-Afebd0fe7	Ping Pong is More of a Sport than Golf	"Mr. Pote I am an eighth grader from Kansas and have had no formal debate class or any class for that matter so I will try my hardest to be formal and give you an opposing case (this is also my first debate ever) so here we go. My opponent gives the definition of a sport and says that ""If both are sports, and nothing can be more of a sport than a sport, then they are equal sports."" I agree with this and will not oppose this statement. Contention two:(c) ""Golf also directly sets opponents against each other, however, the number of opponents is normally much higher than the number of opponents in Ping Pong."" (5) ""Naturally, the more opponents there are, the harder it is for any one player to consistently win."" Golf is a game played in tournaments most of the time (unless you are playing a single game which is not how the professionals play) Ping Pong is also a sport that is played in tournaments so therefore there can be just as many opponents in a ping pong tournament as a golf tournament. if a tournament in golf consists of 25 people and a ping pong tournament consists of 25 people, ping pong is actually the harder game to consistently when at because there are more chances for mistakes because you will have to play more than just one game but multiple games to be the winner of the tournament. ""Also, golf courses are not nearly as controlled as Ping Pong tables, and it is therefore easier for variables to randomly cause a loss/victory. Golfers must not only beat their opponents, as is the sole task of Ping Pong players, but they must also beat random variables."" golf does have more variables than ping pong but there are also variables in ping pong such as paddles(size and weight of paddles), balls(weight of balls), table(what tables are made of), ect. Generally is golf not played on nice days with little wind? http://www.golflink.com... http://www.usatt.org... ""Golf takes more skill than Ping Pong because the distance that a golf ball must be hit far exceeds the distance that a Ping Pong ball must be hit, and the golf ball must not only be hit far, it must be hit far with great accuracy. Sending a ball of roughly equal shape and size a farther distance with the same accuracy is inherently more skillful."" SKILL-competent excellence in performance; expertness; dexterity Skill is not defined by the distance hit but the accuracy of the ball hit so that is what I would like to zero in on. It takes more skill to hit a ping pong ball in the exact spot that will make your opponent to miss than it does to hit a golf ball in the general vicinity of something on a huge golf course. Lets compare the size of one hole to the size of a tennis table. My opponent states that the balls are of about the same size and equal in shape. That just means that you have to hit a bigger ball (in comparison to the playing space) in a smaller space and more accurate at that. Also you have to hit a heavier ball with a heavier club so the distance is irrelevant. ""This is a comparison of two very unlike things. My opponent compares two requirements of Ping Pong to the level of accomplishment that ""any one"" can succeed in. ""any one"" could also succeed in Ping Pong, for example: I beat my 3 year old next door neighbor because she could not return any of my serves"" I agree these are two different things ""Golf also requires Hand Eye coordination and golf is more physically stressful to the body. Golf requires more strength because the distance that the golf ball is forced to travel is greater than the distance that the Ping Pong ball is forced to travel, which requires more force. More force expenditure from a body=more physically stressful to the body."" In ping pong you must move around constantly to keep a ball in play in golf on the other hand you move to the tee and swing then jump in the golf court and ride to where the ball is that is not very physical at all. I disagree you must hit a golf ball with equal force as you do a ping pong ball because. F=M*A M=115 grams A=78 m times a equals 8.97 Newton's - this is for a golf ball F=M*A M= 77 grams A=1.875 m times a equals 144.375 - this is for ping pong scientifically by your standards more force is required for ping pong so the statement of mine saying ""Ping Pong takes Hand Eye coordination and is also physically stressful to the body"" is correct! That does not include the constant motion either. http://www.streetdirectory.com... http://www.ajdesigner.com... http://golf.about.com... http://hypertextbook.com... http://www.jayandwanda.com... ""I concede that a golf ball is stationary until it is hit and that a Ping Pong ball is generally not stationary until it is hit. However, I do not see how hitting a moving object a very short distance is in any way more skillful, physically stressful or ""more of a sport"""" Once again I agree that is no more of a sport than golf but also once again the size of the playing field determines accuracy which is the definition of skill. In every type of action it is harder to hit a moving object. take hunting for example it is easier to hit a deer that does not know you are there to shoot him than it does to kill it as it is running away. http://dictionary.reference.com..."	PRO	39
39	S8b62fc9c-Abc52a36e	Ping Pong is More of a Sport than Golf	"Thanks again for the debate, it certainly has been fun. My opponent starts of his last round with a counter argument to my 450 tee offs argument. He calculates the number 21,168, which I will accept. 21,168 divided by 450 is 47.04, so there are 47.04 times as many swings in ping pong as there are in golf. I'll plug in both the force from swinging a ping pong paddle/golf club and ping pong ball/golf ball. Newtons are, as I quoted in my second round:""the force required to accelerate a one kilogram mass at a rate of one meter per second squared"" This means that we must plug in kilograms, not grams. Ping pong paddle: 77 GRAMS x 1.875 m/s2 which is equal to .077 KILOGRAMS x 1.875 m/s2. This is .144375 Newtons. Golf club:115 GRAMS x 78 m/s2 which is equal to .115 KILOGRAMS x 78 m/s2. This is 8.970 Newtons. If we divide the force to swing a golf club (8.970) by the force to swing a ping pong paddle (.144375) we get 62.129870. This is much larger than 47.04, so it requires more force to swing a golf club 450 times than to swing a ping pong paddle 21,168 times. I'll plug in the new numbers that my opponent got for a ping pong ball and golf ball, which I accept. .0050625 Newtons for the ping pong ball. 3.58254 Newtons for the golf ball. 3.58254 divided by .0050625 is 707.6622222. This is much larger than 47.04, so it requires more force to hit a golf ball 450 times than to hit a ping pong ball 21,168 times. (1), checked with (2) My opponent concedes that there are more variables affecting golf than ping pong, on top of the increased amount of force required to swing a golf club and hit a golf ball. I cannot assign a number value to these variables, because they are variables, but they do make it more difficult to consistently win golf. My opponent even says "" I will agree that variables lead to inaccuracy but once again no variables can affect the outcome of a tournament by that much."" which shows that variables make it harder to play golf, but by a small/unknown amount. I agree that the hole in one ""is a rarity of golf"", but it was just an example to show that it requires more accuracy to hit a ball a farther distance with the same accuracy. I agree that ""this ""incredible accuracy"" is not complete skill as in all sports luck is involved"", but that means that luck is also involved in ping pong, so ping pong is not any more of a sport than golf. The statement ""in all sports luck is involved"" negates the resolution, and my opponent said it, not me. My opponent's next argument is about the math, which I went over above. My opponent's last argument is that "" ping pong balls move in different directions than just strait"", and I agree with this, but he has not given a number value, similar to how I could not give a number value to the variables affecting golf. It is not possible to show that ping pong is harder than golf when we have an unknown value making it more difficult on each side. We cannot weigh EITHER unknown value as greater than the other, so the resolution must be negated. Conclusion: My opponent has not offered any arguments against my first contention or my subpoints a) or b), as I stated in my second round. My first contention is very important because I defined a sport as a noun and argued that nouns could not be more of themselves than the same noun. In other words, as my opponent agreed with, ""If both are sports, and nothing can be more of a sport than a sport, then they are equal sports."" This negates the resolution, if they are equal sports then ping pong cannot be more of a sport than golf, they are equal. My subpoints a) and b) were mainly for clarification, so it doesn't really matter that much that my opponent agreed with them. The voting issues in this debate (as I see them) should be: 1. A sport cannot be ""more of a sport"" than another sport because sport is a noun. My opponent agreed with this. 2. The Force associated with playing each sport, which sport puts more stress on the body due to the forces. 3. Which sport takes more accuracy. 4. The variables affecting golf make golf a harder sport to consistently win at, but by an unknown amount. 5. The moving ping pong ball makes ping pong a harder sport to consistently win at, but by an unknown amount. I believe that I have won on the majority of these arguments and I urge you to vote negative. (1)-http://www.ajdesigner.com... (2)-http://calculator.com... Thanks for the debate, Witty, it's been fun."	CON	40
40	S6b8ef422-A48b8625e	Golf is not a physical sport	Either Merritt doesn't want to aruge, or golf really isn't a physical sport.	PRO	41
41	Sf6c3ab3f-A7edb8137	does golf is a real sport	i think golf is not a real sport, because you dont make a physical exercise.	CON	42
42	S8b62fc9c-Ad3148f04	Ping Pong is More of a Sport than Golf	"Negative case: Definition: Sport-noun: 1. an athletic activity requiring skill or physical prowess and often of a competitive nature, as racing, baseball, tennis, golf, bowling, wrestling, boxing, hunting, fishing, etc. (1) Noun: The part of speech that names a person, place, thing, or idea. In sentences, nouns generally function as subjects or as objects. (2) Adjective: A part of speech that describes a noun or pronoun. (3) Contention one: Nouns are not qualitative. Nouns are people, places, things, or ideas. If something falls under the category of being a noun, it is on the same level of being the aforementioned noun as every other noun that is the aforementioned noun. No sport can be ""more of a sport"" than another sport. Arguing that one sport is ""more of a sport"" would be like arguing that one sentence is more of a sentence than another sentence. A sport is the definition of a sport, therefore nothing may be more of a sport than a sport. My opponent agrees that ""Ping Pong is a very physically demanding SPORT..."" and ""golf on the other hand is a SPORT"" then they agree that both Ping Pong and golf are sports. If both are sports, and nothing can be more of a sport than a sport, then they are equal sports. Contention two: Golf is a more difficult sport to consistently win at. a) Sports are ""often of a competitive nature"", which means that the goal of the sport is to win. b) Ping pong directly sets two opponents (or four) against each other, and 'points' are made when an opponent makes an error that include such things as: ""Allowing the ball to bounce on one's own side more than once. Double hitting the ball. Allowing the ball to strike anything other than the racket. Causing the ball not to bounce on the opponent's half.""(4) The player (or team) that reaches a point threshold first in considered the winner. c) Golf also directly sets opponents against each other, however, the number of opponents is normally much higher than the number of opponents in Ping Pong. (5) Naturally, the more opponents there are, the harder it is for any one player to consistently win. Also, golf courses are not nearly as controlled as Ping Pong tables, and it is therefore easier for variables to randomly cause a loss/victory. Golfers must not only beat their opponents, as is the sole task of Ping Pong players, but they must also beat random variables. Affirmation's case: My opponent did not define any terms, so as of now my definitions are the only definitions usable in this debate. My opponent's first claim is that ""Ping Pong is a very physically demanding sport and takes more skill and endurance than golf."" Golf takes more skill than Ping Pong because the distance that a golf ball must be hit far exceeds the distance that a Ping Pong ball must be hit, and the golf ball must not only be hit far, it must be hit far with great accuracy. Sending a ball of roughly equal shape and size a farther distance with the same accuracy is inherently more skillful. Golf also requires more endurance than Ping Pong. Golf requires more strength than Ping Pong and therefore requires more endurance on a second by second basis. My opponent's second claim is that ""Ping Pong takes Hand Eye coordination and is also physically stressful to the body where golf on the other hand is a sport that any one can accomplish with some what success. This is a comparison of two very unlike things. My opponent compares two requirements of Ping Pong to the level of accomplishment that ""any one"" can succeed in. ""any one"" could also succeed in Ping Pong, for example: I beat my 3 year old next door neighbor because she could not return any of my serves. Golf also requires Hand Eye coordination and golf is more physically stressful to the body. Golf requires more strength because the distance that the golf ball is forced to travel is greater than the distance that the Ping Pong ball is forced to travel, which requires more force. More force expenditure from a body=more physically stressful to the body. My opponent's last claim is that "" A golf Ball is a stationary object that you have to hit with an oversize club , where as in Ping Pong the ball is always moving."" I concede that a golf ball is stationary until it is hit and that a Ping Pong ball is generally not stationary until it is hit. However, I do not see how hitting a moving object a very short distance is in any way more skillful, physically stressful or ""more of a sport"" (1)-http://dictionary.reference.com... (2)-http://dictionary.reference.com... (3)-http://dictionary.reference.com... (4)-http://en.wikipedia.org... (5)-http://en.wikipedia.org..."	CON	43
43	S8b62fc9c-Afc685638	Ping Pong is More of a Sport than Golf	"Dear Sir, I also would like to thank you for accepting this debate it has been fun. ""The second argument is that ping pong is more difficult to consistently win because each player must play multiple games in order to win. My opponent does not cite a specific number of games. In each golf tournament each player must play 18 holes. If we use the example of 25 competitors per tournament this comes out to 450 holes per tournament. Each hole is a competition that can literally cause a player to lose the entire tournament."" 450 holes looks meager compared to the number of serves that would have to happen to win a Ping Pong tournament, ""winning consistently"". 21 points= 1 game 7 games= 1match there are 3 matches in a round. And if it is a double elimination like some are, 48 rounds would be played to find a grand champion. So lets figure this up. There are 441 points in a round times 48 rounds, equals 21,168 serves in all. A serve would be compared to teeing off, in golf. This would make ping pong harder to ""consistently win"" at. ""The third and final attack on my case is that there are variables that affect ping pong, including ""paddles(size and weight of paddles), balls(weight of balls), table(what tables are made of), ect."" My opponent agrees that there are more variables affecting golf though, so even if there are variables affecting ping pong they do not overpower the variables affecting golf. Thus, golf is more affected by variables and is therefore harder to consistently win at."" This is true but the variables do not out weigh the win factor if it is 450 holes to 21,168 serves. Variables can not affect a game by that much it is physically impossible. the variables would have to make up 20,718 holes. ""My opponent asks "" Generally is golf not played on nice days with little wind?"", and the answer would be yes. The key word in his question is generally, which leaves room for golf to be played on not so nice days and/or with a lot of wind. Ping pong does not have any of these variables ever because it is played indoors or under controlled circumstances. I concede to this statement. http://tabletennis.about.com... http://www.ehow.com... "" It requires more accuracy to hit a single point 100 yards away than to hit a single point 1 yard away because of all the variables affecting the ball while it is in the air. A golf ball stays in the air for a much longer period of time and therefore variables have more of an effect on its final stopping point. Variables lead to inaccuracy, which means that golf requires more accuracy to compensate for the variables affecting the golf ball."" Ping pong balls are hit from farther away than one yard see the video (also notice the movement of the players, if I have enough room I will get back to that). I will agree that variables lead to inaccuracy but once again no variables can affect the outcome of a tournament by that much. ""My opponent argues that ""It takes more skill to hit a ping pong ball in the exact spot that will make your opponent to miss than it does to hit a golf ball in the general vicinity of something on a huge golf course"" but the golf tournament victors do not simply hit a golf ball in any ""general vicinity"". There are many examples of incredible accuracy including the above video."" Firstly I am aware of the magnificent shot of tiger woods and also I know that he is not the only person to do so, but the thing is that this ideal shot happens almost never it is a rarity of golf. Secondly the distance you have to hit a golf ball (on some holes) to get it in the hole is above human capability. ""My opponent also argues that ""the distance is irrelevant."", which would mean that golf and ping pong require the same level of accuracy, which would negate the resolution."" this comment is not true and I will agree that what I said is incorrect. Stating that, I would like to mention that this ""incredible accuracy"" is not complete skill as in all sports luck is involved. The conditions or the variables where just right to help this next to impossible shot. ""My opponent then argues that the force required to hit a ping pong ball across the table is greater than the force required to hit a golf ball across the course. He cites that Force=Mass x Acceleration and plugs in a few numbers to calculate the force for each sport. His math is incorrect. 115 grams x 78 m = 8.970 Newtons is correct.(m is actually the incorrect unit for acceleration, but I assume he means m/s2, that is, meters divided by seconds squared)(1) However, 77 grams x 1.875 m would actually be .144375 Newtons. It's .077 x 1.875."" This incorrect math is not really incorrect. The miss understanding is partially my fault for these reasons. 1) I said ""F=M*A M=115 grams A=78 m times a equals 8.97 Newton's - this is for a golf ball F=M*A M= 77 grams A=1.875 m times a equals 144.375 - this is for ping pong"" this was in correct. 2) the first reason it was in correct is that I did not mention m/s2 as the unit. 3) The mass of the object was for the paddles and clubs, I took the average weight of each (using the same unit of weight(grams)) I multiplied this by the acceleration (both using the same standard unit (m/s2)) the reason my opponent is confused is that I said ""this is for a golf ball"" when it should have read this is for a golf club. I then put this in unit converter/force formula (http://www.ajdesigner.com...) and I got 8.97 newtons for the golf club and 144.375 for the Ping Pong paddle. ""I hope that this was a simple decimal error and not a deliberate attempt to skew facts by not converting the 77 grams that a ping pong ball weighs into .077 kilograms. The weight of a golf ball was properly converted into kilograms.Newtons are ""the force required to accelerate a one kilogram mass at a rate of one meter per second squared""(2)This means that the force required to send a golf ball the distance that golf balls are sent is much greater than the force required to send a ping pong ball the distance that ping pong balls are sent."" I put this in the formula converter and it takes care of converting. it was not a decimal error and I am going to do A golf ball compared to a pong ball right now A PONG BALL WEIGHTS 2.7 GRAMS AND THE ACCELERATION IS 1.875 M/S2 THIS EQUALS FORCE = 0.0050625 NEWTONS NOW A GOLF BALL 45.93 GRAMS X ACCELERATION WHICH IS 78 M/S2 =3.58254 NEWTONS a golf ball has more force when hit than a ping pong ball but the ball is not stressing the body physically but the swing of the paddle/club is so this proves that ping pong is more physically stressful to the body. http://answers.yahoo.com... to address the hunting issue first ping pong balls move in different directions than just strait,like an arrow, they curve so a deer running is harder to hit because you must have the ball come down on the deer Pote I've enjoyed"	PRO	44
44	S8b62fc9c-Ad8da184d	Ping Pong is More of a Sport than Golf	"Thanks for the prompt response, this is also my first debate... on debate.org at least. Mr. Pote is my father. My opponent concedes to my definition of a sport and that ""If both are sports, and nothing can be more of a sport than a sport, then they are equal sports."" This is found at the end of my first contention. The most important part of this quote is ""nothing can be more of a sport than a sport"". Since we have already agreed that both golf and Ping Pong are sports, then neither of them can be ""more of a sport"" than the other. The resolution is impossible to affirm. My opponent makes several arguments against my second contention, subpoint c). The first argument is that the majority of golf games are in tournaments, and that ""there can be just as many opponents in a ping pong tournament as a golf tournament"". I will concede this point, that there are EQUAL numbers of opponents in each of the tournaments. The second argument is that ping pong is more difficult to consistently win because each player must play multiple games in order to win. My opponent does not cite a specific number of games. In each golf tournament each player must play 18 holes. If we use the example of 25 competitors per tournament this comes out to 450 holes per tournament. Each hole is a competition that can literally cause a player to lose the entire tournament. The third and final attack on my case is that there are variables that affect ping pong, including ""paddles(size and weight of paddles), balls(weight of balls), table(what tables are made of), ect."" My opponent agrees that there are more variables affecting golf though, so even if there are variables affecting ping pong they do not overpower the variables affecting golf. Thus, golf is more affected by variables and is therefore harder to consistently win at. My opponent asks "" Generally is golf not played on nice days with little wind?"", and the answer would be yes. The key word in his question is generally, which leaves room for golf to be played on not so nice days and/or with a lot of wind. Ping pong does not have any of these variables ever because it is played indoors or under controlled circumstances. I would like to note that my opponent does not offer any arguments against my first contention, or my subpoints a) or b). I will try to show the importance of these points in my next round. My opponent then goes on to defend his case. He defines Skill as ""competent excellence in performance; expertness; dexterity"" I accept this definition. He says that ""Skill is not defined by the distance hit but the accuracy of the ball hit"" I do not see accuracy anywhere in the agreed upon definition of skill, but I will argue that golf requires more accuracy than Ping Pong. My opponent fails to recognize that in a larger area there are more points that can be the possible landing spots of a ball. It requires more accuracy to hit a single point 100 yards away than to hit a single point 1 yard away because of all the variables affecting the ball while it is in the air. This can be cross applied to my variables argument in subpoint c) of my contention 2. A golf ball stays in the air for a much longer period of time and therefore variables have more of an effect on its final stopping point. Variables lead to inaccuracy, which means that golf requires more accuracy to compensate for the variables affecting the golf ball. My opponent argues that ""It takes more skill to hit a ping pong ball in the exact spot that will make your opponent to miss than it does to hit a golf ball in the general vicinity of something on a huge golf course"" but the golf tournament victors do not simply hit a golf ball in any ""general vicinity"". There are many examples of incredible accuracy including the above video. http://www.youtube.com... My opponent also argues that ""the distance is irrelevant."", which would mean that golf and ping pong require the same level of accuracy, which would negate the resolution. My opponent agrees that he was comparing two very unlike things and that means that they cannot be accurately used to compare golf and ping pong, so the comparison he made in his first case is moot. My opponent then argues that the force required to hit a ping pong ball across the table is greater than the force required to hit a golf ball across the course. He cites that Force=Mass x Acceleration and plugs in a few numbers to calculate the force for each sport. His math is incorrect. 115 grams x 78 m = 8.970 Newtons is correct.(m is actually the incorrect unit for acceleration, but I assume he means m/s2, that is, meters divided by seconds squared)(1) However, 77 grams x 1.875 m would actually be .144375 Newtons. It's .077 x 1.875. I hope that this was a simple decimal error and not a deliberate attempt to skew facts by not converting the 77 grams that a ping pong ball weighs into .077 kilograms. The weight of a golf ball was properly converted into kilograms. Newtons are ""the force required to accelerate a one kilogram mass at a rate of one meter per second squared""(2) This means that the force required to send a golf ball the distance that golf balls are sent is much greater than the force required to send a ping pong ball the distance that ping pong balls are sent. This does not take into account constant motion however, but there have been no calculations done as to the force required for constant motion and thus it cannot be proved that constant motion is more stressful than the difference in force between golf and ping pong. My opponent's last argument includes is that ""In every type of action it is harder to hit a moving object"". This is actually false. The direction of movement is what matters. My opponent brings up the example of hunting deer and how it is more difficult "" to kill it as it is running away"", but this is only based on the direction of the movement of the deer. If the deer were running in a straight line in the same direction as the hunter fires the bullet in, the deer will be hit. Likewise, if a ping pong ball is sent towards your paddle, it requires no effort on your part to hit it. It does require some effort to hit a golf ball and some effort is more than no effort. I realise that professional ping pong players do not send the ball directly into their opponent's paddle, but so far I have no reason to think that the effort required to hit a moving ping pong ball a short distance is greater than the effort required to hit a stationary golf ball a very large distance, especially when the golf ball has so many variables affecting it. (1)-http://en.wikipedia.org... (2)-http://en.wikipedia.org... I am almost at the 7000 character limit, so I would like to thank my opponent Witty11 once more for his response."	CON	45
45	Sf6c3ab3f-Aa5065996	does golf is a real sport	the real deffinition of a sport is: all game that include physical exercise. so golf is just a game not a sport	CON	46
46	Sbb04abe6-A1f2d303c	Golf is not a sport	"First I will start with some definitions of ""Sports"" Sport: is an activity that is governed by a set of rules or customs and often engaged in competitively. Sports commonly refer to activities where the physical capabilities of the competitor are the sole or primary determiner of the outcome (winning or losing), but the term is also used to include activities such as mind sports and motor sports where mental acuity or equipment quality are major factors. Sport: Physical activity that is governed by a set of rules or customs and often engaged in competitively. Sport: An activity involving physical exertion and skill that is governed by a set of rules or customs and often undertaken competitively. I believe that these definitions prove my case all of these were taken from the Webster dictionary, the fact is a sport is something is an activity that involves skills be it throwing a ball 40 yards,running 100 miles, or hitting a tiny ball 400 yards into a hole. A sport is a competition involving rules and guidelines, and were skill comes into play. I think that we can all agree Golf is a game of rules and skill therefore it is a sport."	CON	47
47	S2e6a0d7e-Abd7a09b	Golf is better than soccer.	shut up lol...haha i didnt even think id get a debater lol and idk anything about soccer only golf lol and so! ur 2 yrs older :P	PRO	48
48	S953298b6-A71afc00	Golf is the most mentally challenging sport	Golf is the most mentally challenging sport	PRO	49
49	S8b62fc9c-Ac812f68d	Ping Pong is More of a Sport than Golf	Ping Pong is a very physically demanding sport and takes more skill and endurance than golf. Ping Pong takes Hand Eye coordination and is also physically stressful to the body where golf on the other hand is a sport that any one can accomplish with some what success. A golf Ball is a stationary object that you have to hit with an oversize club , where as in Ping Pong the ball is always moving.	PRO	50
50	S31ff7b7c-Adac937e1	Guns dont kill people; Golf on T.V. does	"I thank my opponent for the debate and the audience for the opportunity. I shall negate the resolution, ""Guns dont kill people; Golf on T.V. does."" ================================================ Definitions: guns- weapons consisting of a metal tube, with mechanical attachments, from which projectiles are shot by the force of an explosive. kill- to deprive of life in any manner; cause the death of. golf- a game in which clubs with wooden or metal heads are used to hit a small, white ball into a number of holes, usually 9 or 18, in succession, situated at various distances over a course having natural or artificial obstacles, the object being to get the ball into each hole in as few strokes as possible. T.V.- television; the broadcasting of a still or moving image via radiowaves to receivers that project a view of the image on a picture tube. ======================================== I contend that guns do kill people. When a gun is fired, the speed and strength of the projectile has the ability to make contact with a person and kill him/her. Guns kill people due to the force of impact the projected bullet makes with a person's body. I also contend that golf on television does not kill people. Simply broadcasting a game of golf on television will not cause the death of various people. Although some may argue that golf is boring, golf on television does not kill people; for it does not deprive life of people watching the broadcast or cause the immediate death of humans. ========================================= My opponent quoted: ""Golf on t.v sucks."" However, this does not create an argument and does not need a rebuttal. ========================================= The resolution is negated. I heavily urge a Con vote."	CON	51
51	S31ff7b7c-A4126122e	Guns dont kill people; Golf on T.V. does	Golf on t.v sucks	PRO	52
52	Sa452c48c-Ab569c84b	Golf is the most mentally challenging sport and requires the most creativity and skill	"Lets first address golf being a sport. The main argument against this is always the physical aspect, but u fail to see is the amount of energy exerted doesn't determine whether or not an activity is a sport. Your definitions proved golf is a sport because it is a physical activity, although it is not intense and by saying the definitions are vague, they are still the definitions, therefore your argument that golf is not a sport is pointless. Boxing can never be compared to golf in a mental aspect because in boxing there is no time to think. With your opponent constantly throwing punches at you, you can't think, u just react. In golf u actually have that time to think, if you just hit your ball in the trees, that whole walk u are thinking, ""I just lost the tournament"", or ""I'm such an idiot"". It is absurd to even compare the two, there is no other sport where a mental breakdown, can kill your entire game. You don't have any subs or anyone to relieve you, you have to power through your round. Your mind is pretty much your only asset and with the obstacles surrounding golf, it is constantly being attacked."	PRO	53
53	Sa452c48c-Acc9c056b	Golf is the most mentally challenging sport and requires the most creativity and skill	"I can name so many more sports that are so mentally challenging than golf. First off, is golf even a sport?? Webster's Dictionary defines the noun of ""sport"" as: a : a source of diversion : recreation b : sexual play c (1) : physical activity engaged in for pleasure (2) : a particular activity (as an athletic game) so engaged in ""A source of diversion"" - meaning something that diverts your attention, distraction essentially. So by that definition basically anything you do can be defined as a sport. If I paint my toenails as a means to divert my attention from something else... that's a sport. If I masturbate a gibbon as a distraction I'm engaging in a sport. If I paint a gibbon's toenails after having masturbated him... it's a sport. The second definition, ""sexual play"" refers to the use of ""sport"" as a synonym for sex which isn't really widely used anymore and doesn't apply to what we're talking about... although it may apply to the aforementioned gibbon. The third definition ""physical activity engaged in for pleasure"" is likewise vague and could describe anything you physically do for enjoyment, and the fourth definition is essentially the same as well.... like jerking off the gibbon. The Rose Center for Health and Sports Sciences in Denver attempted to argue that golf is indeed a sport because of the level of energy expended and the amount of calories burned (721 per round). Considering that an average golf round is 4 1/2 hours (according to Golf Digest) that translates to 160 calories an hour. By comparison they also found that an hour of billiards burns 216 calories, an hour of fishing 302, and a ""relaxed canoe trip"" 345. An hour of curling? Also 345. When your comparison falls short because more energy is expended during a ""relaxed canoe trip"" you FAIL. The only argument made here is that 18 holes of golf is ""okay exercise."" By the way, I burned almost half that amount of calories (350) by walking at a relaxed pace on a treadmill for 30 minutes today. Trust me- treadmill walking is most definitely not a sport. http://billytrouson.blogspot.com... Read this article as it rants on how golf is not even a sport. I will now state how boxing is one of the most mentally challenging sports there is. I'm pretty sure we've all had our fair fist fights or wrestling, but how hard was it mentally fighting that person I ask those who are reading this? The average punch for any person depending on weight, body type, etc, can vary from person to person. The average for a average person can come at 14 MPH at one punch. Your brain only has a second to react. I encourage you to watch my video I will post here, as it is quite entertaining. http://www.youtube.com... Already I state various reasons why golf cannot even be compared as a sport & is not mentally challenging."	CON	54
54	Sa452c48c-A29b70081	Golf is the most mentally challenging sport and requires the most creativity and skill	Lets start with the mental aspect, golf is mentally draining. U have to constantly think about what will happen if u hit the ball too far or too short, or too much right or left. U have to be mentally strong to win and u have virtually no help. Only in golf do u have to hit between trees, off of twigs dirt, rocks, etc... U have to be able to create opportunity where it seems to be none. The skill aspect is is easily shown, the amount of skill it takes to battle the natural challenges, put together with bunkers and water hazards and anything else placed to make the course hard. Only in golf do you have to worry about if u hit the ball two yards too far, its in the bunker or water. Golf as a whole is just a demanding sport and requires the most mentally, skill wise and creativity.	PRO	55
55	Sa452c48c-A1e0098da	Golf is the most mentally challenging sport and requires the most creativity and skill	"I can see how my aforementioned statements can be taken as me saying boxing takes no mental skill, that is not my opinion. Yes the pressure of a crowd, does a lot to a athlete mentally, but as u said, it can equally be said that no crowd can create the same mental strain. Without a crowd, there is no way to distract yourself from the millions of things going on in your mind. My opponent stated,""Mayweather just got knocked out, through his mental state of mind how is he gonna come back? Does he come back swinging harder?..."". If mayweather was knocked out he doesn't have to think anymore because the fight is over. This brings me to my point, in Golf there is no premature end. Yes u can replace the ball that you hit in the water, but you have to continue your round thinking about what had just gone wrong. However there is not just the crowd there to add mental stress there are also elements such as weather to take into account, unlike in boxing. In golf, you constantly are at the mercy of mother nature and she is very unpredictable. Dealing with 20mph right to left winds is definitely mentally taxing, especially if u are one stroke back at a major championship. Remember u are trying to get a small ball into a slightly larger hole, up to around 600 yards away, there is a lot that can go wrong in that stretch. So I respond to you saying i'm not educated in the sport of boxing, with have u ever played 18 holes, let alone 72 holes, i doubt it because you would understand the constant mental stress. So you my dear sir are not educated in the sport of golf"	PRO	56
56	Sa452c48c-Ac303d3e9	Golf is the most mentally challenging sport and requires the most creativity and skill	"You obviously did not read the article I posted. If your going to debate, you must listen to all statements. You are completely arrogant to my fact I stated above, & are COMPLETLEY blind to boxing using no mental skills. My opponent said ""Boxing can never be compared to golf in a mental aspect because in boxing there is no time to think."" Really? last I checked boxing fights in arenas like MGM Grand & Pay-Per-View fights, you have millions of peoples eyes on you. You feel the pressure yet? Lets get inside the ring (Fake dramatized mini novel about boxing. *Ding Ding Ding* ""Round 8 has begun and it's one hell of a fight here in Las Vegas MGM grand, Manny Pacquiao & Floyd Mayweather are putting a heck of a show on tonight for us ladies and gentleman. Mayweather throws a right jab, Manny takes the punch, Mayweather Swings & misses! OH! Manny hits Mayweather with a hammer right hand & he's down! can he get up!? Referee: 1,2,3,4,5,6,7, .... Mayweather gets up!"" This is just an example of a fight how the intensity can be & how the pressure can easily fall on you. Understand what I'm saying ok? Mayweather just got knocked out, through his mental state of mind how is he going to come back? Does he come back swinging hard? Does he just run around & play safe & wait to talk to his trainer? Behind your back you have half the stadium screaming ""Pac-man Pac-man!"". Do you feel the pressure yet?? This can be for any boxer, contenders, sparing, a belt fight, even just two high school kids fighting over a girl. As for golf though... You just hear the announcer say: ""Ok Tiger Woods is up, everyone be quiet now... he swings, oh! A miss!"" Yeah I understand how the awkwardness of a quiet zone focusing on one person can be hard but that is absolutely noting compared to boxing. One more thing, my opponent says: ""With your opponent constantly throwing punches at you, you can't think, u just react. In golf u actually have that time to think, if you just hit your ball in the trees, that whole walk u are thinking, ""I just lost the tournament"", or ""I'm such an idiot. It is absurd to even compare the two, there is no other sport where a mental breakdown, can kill your entire game."" Well excuse me but last I checked a knockout can end the game. As for golf you can hit it into the water and be like, ""Oh it's ok, I'll just put another ball here by the water"". Either my opponent just is irrelevant or just uneducated about the sport of boxing. To wrap this up, an environment can effect you anywhere! But if there's a million people watching what you are doing, that's two-million eyes on you."	CON	57
57	S331dbe36-A32726022	Is golf a sport	Well apparently, anything Pro states is considered fact, regardless of the lack of evidence to support his claims. I too wish to possess such entitlement, but unfortunately I am not capable of making such declarations. I'll leave this up to the voters to decide if they choose to adopt Pro's view of factuality as their own.	CON	58
58	S2c13cc23-A7d69a90a	Is golf asport	Not everyone has the opportunity to take a cart. I'm not allowed to, we have to walk for four hours straight. And its fast pace walking. There is much more then bending down to get a ball. I don't see you being able to walk fast for four hours straight with no break!	PRO	59
59	Sa452c48c-Afdf1735	Golf is the most mentally challenging sport and requires the most creativity and skill	"For the time that Pro was here he put up a good argument, Pro if you see this please make another account & add me we can debate again about this. But also just because Pro is not here doesn't mean I'm going to just stop debating, I'm a winner I want to win this debate. Through a boxers mentality he or she has to constantly keep in mind & that he can get hit or dropped in a blink of an eye. Boxers fight from 2-3 minutes & must be aware & cautious at ALL times, but in golf you only have to think for about 30 seconds because I'm assuming that's the average time a golfer uses to swing the club. Is the boxer going to uppercut to the gut, or jab 4 times to the face? If a boxer gets hit hard just one time this can take away his confidence because it can make him question ""can I keep up with him?"" or if you are giving your full force on every punch you throw & you see your punches are not phasing his or her opponent this can make the boxer question his own strength, for example: ""Are my punches that hard? Am I throwing them hard enough""? This can make the boxer throw more punches & drain his or her stamina."	CON	60
60	S6b8ef422-Af59d8bf2	Golf is not a physical sport	I extend my arguments.	PRO	61
61	S6b8ef422-Af29313b2	Golf is not a physical sport	Challenge accepted!	CON	62
62	Sf6c3ab3f-Adfba7861	does golf is a real sport	yes but thats why we are making this debate duh	CON	63
63	Sa2449587-Aa2e55841	Baseball is better than golf	Good game. I won.	PRO	64
64	Sa2449587-A51d5e63f	Baseball is better than golf	Nice try	PRO	65
65	Sa2449587-A6559776a	Baseball is better than golf	Extended arguments hope my opponent returns.	PRO	66
66	S2e6a0d7e-A4e302bba	Golf is better than soccer.	i give up lol im too young to look up crap lol....13 yrs old baby! :P	PRO	67
67	S2e6a0d7e-A2b5a37d6	Golf is better than soccer.	the opponent states that she's too young to do the research... I'm 15	CON	68
68	S2e6a0d7e-Adb913fbc	Golf is better than soccer.	she assumed and you know what happens when we assume don't you ... yea and two years is a slight difference in age... a majority of america marries at least 3 years age difference. she should be prepared for everything and with that i strongly urge you to vote negative for todays round	CON	69
69	S953298b6-Ac265fc06	Golf is the most mentally challenging sport	extend	CON	70
70	S953298b6-Adb10701	Golf is the most mentally challenging sport	I accept	CON	71
71	S953298b6-Ac265fc06	Golf is the most mentally challenging sport	extend	CON	72
72	Sdf72c7ac-Ac328e39f	Women and Contact Sports	"Thanks to Pro for a good debate. The Resolution The resolution could be implemented right away. Schools could “establish and promote” contact sports for women. The way they could do it is to take funds away from sports currently in the athletic program and use them to hire coaches and buy equipment for women's contact sports. The debate question is, should that be done? It should be done only if the advantages of doing so outweigh the disadvantages. . Pro contends that the resolution is really some sort of question of principle, and not a call for actual implementation.” One reason we know that the resolution is not a question of principle is that it calls for schools to “establish contact sports, including football and wrestling.” That goes way beyond saying that women should not be denied contact sports, it says that it should be done, regardless of tradition (e.g., the school has a tradition of strong women's basketball) or the desires of the schools athletes (e.g., for some reason curling has become a hot sport locally). . I used language studies as an example of the meaning of the resolution. Pro claim that my example could be interpreted as a matter of principle, not practice. Compare two possible resolutions: . R1. High schools and colleges in the United States should establish and promote the study of the Serbo-Croation language. . R2. High schools and colleges in the United States should establish and promote the study of the Mandarin Chinese language. . I claim R1 certainly fails, but R2 could be affirmed. There is nothing wrong with the Serbo-Croation language, but schools schools should not “establish and promote” it, because the advantages are not persuasive. R2 is different, Chinese is an important language in modern commerce and is rapidly rising in importance. Arguably it should displace French and some other languages in most curricula. R2 is logically taken as a practical resolution: the argument is that it can be done and schools should do it. Argument One: Benefits to Women If any new sport is established, there will a benefit to those who wish to participate. However, there is a disadvantage to those who are denied participation in the sports cut to establish the new one. Under the current system, new sports are adopted and dropped locally, based upon the school tradition and the interests of the athletes. Pro claims that women's wrestling is growing rapidly under the present system. He offers no evidence whatsoever that women who want wrestling are systematically denied. He has provided no evidence that even one women's football team was desired by athletes, let alone denied. Yet the resolution demands that women's football and wresting teams be established, whether anyone wants them or not. Argument Two: Sexism Pro's primary example of sexism was cheerleaders in football. Pro grants that the advent of male cheerleaders has done nothing to change the perception of cheerleading as a female sport. He introduces two new arguments in this final round that it's a matter of time and that some sports like track and field are inherently gender neutral. So not only running, but discus a shot put are gender neutral? Pro's contention is unsupported. I think the fundamental mistake is at this point being concern with sexism, I would ca it political correctness, in sports. At the time title IX was passed, c. 1970, it was a valid concern that women were not participating in sports. But there has been equal funding for 40 years, and four of the five most popular sports are enjoyed equally y men and women. the exceptions are football for men, and volleyball for women. I say, let the athletes do what they want to do. I argued cheerleaders are really entertaining the crowd, just as football players are entertaining the crowd. Cheerleading is not sexist, even though it appears so to Pro. Pro did not respond. Argument Three: Participation Con argues that many ore women are participating in contact sports, despite the barriers. What barriers? Pro provided no evidence that polar demand to establish a women's wresting team was denied due to the reasons he imagines. challenged Pro to provide evidence of demands for women's football, which he specifically says should be established. He d not cite any demand. Teams are not established solely because there is no demand. Suppose I claimed ""Curling teams should be promoted and established by schools in the US."" Further suppose that I then claimed this would overcome hared of everything Canadian, and the proof is that curling is growing rapidly despite the barrier of Canadian hatred. Clearly, the argument fails because ""hatred of everything Canadian"" was never prove to be the barrier. The barrier as lack of interest, no more. Interest rises as those who participate raise enthusiasm. that's the way contact sports for women will progress or not, depending on the enthusiasm of part cants. Counterargument One: There Is No Reason To Prefer Contact Sports Pro invokes Rule 2, that I cannot propose banning all contact sports. At no time did I say or imply that men's contact sports should be banned. I did not propose that women's contact sports be banned. Had the resolution been “Men's contact sports should be further established and promoted ...” I would have had the same objection as with women's contact sports. My argument is that if some extra money is made available for sports, then it ought to be put towards life sports rather than contact sports. Life sports are better because they promote good health over a lifetime. Therefore, a disadvantage of the resolution is that it takes athletics in the wrong direction. Counterargument Two: Existing Sports Would Have To Be Cut This was discussed under The Resolution. Counterargument Three: Life Sports Are Better n R2, Pro seemed to mostly agree that life sports were athletically equivalent, with the reservation that life sports did not tech team play. I pointed out that life sports included soft ball and doubles tennis. In R3, Pro introduced the new argument that contact sports were athletically superior. He cited football as being more intense than golf or biking. Life sports, however, include intense sports like tennis. How intense life sports running, swimming, and biking are is adjustable for age and ability. Those are the triathlon sports, clearly intense. Golf when practiced is more intense than football when not practiced. An advantage of life sports is that they are practiced after the school years. Pro's R3.7 says that golf is declining in popularity with young people, while tennis is increasing in popularity. That's fine, both are life sports. Pro then argues that women's football ought to therefore displace golf as a priority in school sports. The reason given for golf's decline is the high cost of golf courses and failure to develop a version of the sport for very young players. Tennis developed a low cost version for very young players. Despite the decline 1.8 million will take up golf in elementary school alone. Women's football remain close to zero in popularity. Pro offered no data women's football is even growing in popularity. It shouldn't displace golf unless it grows substantially in popularity. The data argues for tennis displacing golf, which it is doing on it's own. . Summary I have no objection to either men or women participating in contact sports. The present system allows that to happen. However, schools should not establish and promote contact sports for women, because doing so necessarily harms existing sports and provides no significant compensating advantages. Pro introduced new arguments and evidence in the final round. that's not a crime against nature, but it's a debate conduct violation. the claim I violated rule 2 was clrly invalid. The resolution is negated."	CON	73
73	S31ff7b7c-A6c62378b	Guns dont kill people; Golf on T.V. does	Arguments extended. My opponent has forfeited every round of this debate. I heavily urge a Con vote. Thank you.	CON	74
74	S31ff7b7c-A5139e6e5	Guns dont kill people; Golf on T.V. does	My opponent has forfeited the previous round and has failed to make a single argument. Arguments extended. I heavily urge a Con vote. Thank you.	CON	75
75	S31ff7b7c-Afe04c940	Guns dont kill people; Golf on T.V. does	My opponent has forfeited every single round of this debate and has failed to make a single argument. Arguments extended.	CON	76
76	S31ff7b7c-A687cdd72	Guns dont kill people; Golf on T.V. does	This debate has been quite challenging, but I am pulling through. All arguments extended. Reminder, my opponent has forfeited (essentially) every round of this debate. Thank you.	CON	77
77	S6b1404b6-A482bb169	The hardest thing to do in sports is to hit a baseball	Hardest thing to do in sports is NOT to hit a baseball. Just some facts: Fastest: fastball - 101/103 mph Jai-alai ball - 188 mph slapshot - 105.4 open-wheel racecar - 256.948 mph speed-skier - 160 mph Supposing the reaction time of an individual in baseball to be based on a 103 mpg fastball (instead of the more normal 90...) - here are the distances at which one has the same time to react: Jai-Alai: 109.5 feet Hockey: 61.4 feet Racing: 149.7 feet Skiing: 93.2 feet Any event happening closer than those thresholds gives an actor LESS time to react than a batter in baseball. Oh, and the batter knows the ball is coming. If any of these events are SURPRISES... Here are a list of many things in sports that are much harder to do: - pitch a perfect game - pitch a perfect season - pitch a perfect career - sink a hole-in-one in golf - sink a hole-in-one in disc golf - catch a jai alai ball from under 100 feet away - avoid a sudden collision at 225 mph - recover from a mistake in speed-skiing - in an ancient Mayan sport, the losing captain was killed - remaining alive was VERY hard Furthermore, several sports beside baseball require the athlete to perform some feat or risk death. The combination of these feats and the penalty involved renders them far more difficult to properly perform than to hit a fastball. These sports include: Jai Alai Speed Skiing BASE Jumping Free Diving Rock Fishing Bull Riding Supercross Solo Yacht Racing Street Luging ************************** I have shown a list of not only more difficult sports than baseball (wherein the acts must be harder than the acts in baseball if the sport is harder), and a list of many specific activities in sports that are all harder than hitting a baseball. NEGATED.	CON	78
78	S6e6e5f05-A61a28d73	Hitting a MLB fastball is the hardest thing to do in sports	My argument is that hitting a baseball is the hardest thing to do in sports. I'm not talking about athletic feats such as completing a marathon, pitching a perfect game, beating Tiger Woods in a round of golf, etc, etc. I am talking about stepping up to the plate against a Nolan Ryan or a Randy Johnson, the best of the best. Some may say Scoring a goal in a shootout is harder... maybe shooting a hole in one but i am sure that i can formulate an argument to deny, and prove wrong, any of your statements.	PRO	79
79	S49f41610-A8cc85730	Are Esports real sports	"Def. of sport: an athletic activity requiring skill or physical prowess and often of a competitive nature, as racing, baseball, tennis, golf, bowling, wrestling, boxing, hunting, fishing, etc. Skill OR Physical prowess. Playing Esports certainly requires skill of some sort. So does chess, by the way. And chess is recognized as a sport in more than 100 countries. Are you trying to tell me that playing video games requires no skill whatsoever? I'm trying to contain my laughter. ""Sports require physical exertion e sports have none whatsoever ."" Okay, so people playing Esports are completely immobile? Wow, how inaccurate I was calling you kid, by the way. Your grammar is childlike. And by childlike, I mean a little kid's."	PRO	80
80	S3c6a4e0b-A26d4a53c	Baseball is America's past time when it comes to sports.	"Making a statement that Baseball is ""America's past time"" is equivalent to saying it is the most important sporting activity today for America. While it easy to make the case that Baseball has been a very important sport for our country's history, baseball today no longer occupies the position of ""America's Past Time"". From a professional sports perspective, the NFL makes more revenue per season and the average franchise is more valuable than baseball. The NFL made $11B in 2011 and MLB made only $7B (http://en.wikipedia.org...). The average NFL franchise is worth approximately $1B and the average MLB franchise is worth $523MM (http://www.plunkettresearch.com...). More value per franchise means more people care. Plus, even though each team in MLB has 10x as many games as the average NFL team, they still make less revenue, another example that fewer people care. Further, if you simply take a look at how people spend leisure time in sports, baseball is very low on the list with more people spending time playing golf, basketball, running, soccer and swimming (among other activities). I concede that Baseball has been important in our history but the data above proves that it's prominence in America has faded."	CON	81
81	Sa452c48c-A482a6df6	Golf is the most mentally challenging sport and requires the most creativity and skill	I will skip this round because i'll have 2 more rounds left.	CON	82
82	Sa452c48c-A743647c	Golf is the most mentally challenging sport and requires the most creativity and skill	Well it looks like Pro has deleted his account.	CON	83
83	Safcd1521-A5048981e	is a -3 in golf called a (con) double eagle or a (pro) albatross	i think its a albatross because that is what all the pros call it	PRO	84
84	Safcd1521-A5e27d5df	is a -3 in golf called a (con) double eagle or a (pro) albatross	i am not debating with u. since we broke up i am not going to have anything to do with u...screw this debate i forfeit...i will debate with someone else besides you. THAT WAS A DUMB THING TO DEBATE AGAINST ANYWAY	CON	85
85	Safcd1521-A3adcd049	is a -3 in golf called a (con) double eagle or a (pro) albatross	srry	PRO	86
86	Safcd1521-Ad45cf7ca	is a -3 in golf called a (con) double eagle or a (pro) albatross	Whisc one do you think its called???	PRO	87
87	Safcd1521-A88fbdaca	is a -3 in golf called a (con) double eagle or a (pro) albatross	what does this debate on whatever have to do with anything...i dont even know what the hell that is.	CON	88
88	Se2ff8b36-A3b7d140c	Youth Sports is an excellent building block for children today.	"First, thank you for taking this debate. I know it is a little one sided but I am sure you understand my reasoning. I am a youth soccer coach and have personally seen the benefits of sports especially for the smaller children that have confidence issues. I have seen a child that was scared of the ball the first day become one of the best players on the team in two seasons. In round one my opponent said that sports ostracizes, and in an older age group I agree, but younger children are typically more accepting of others. I should have given a definition of youth sports in my opening debate. Youth sports are sports played prior to the beginning of organized school sports. ""A large number of people don't enjoy or feel confident engaging in sports."" I will start with confidence engaging in sports. This is where positive reinforcement from parents and coaches comes in. Children gain confidence when praised by those they look up to. At a young age, through sports, you can mold a child into being a confident individual even if they don't continue to play sports in later years. If a child does not enjoy sports or more specifically the sport that they are currently playing, it could be that they are just playing the wrong sport. If a child isn't as good on a team there are also sports in which an individual score goes to a team effort, such as gymnastics, track and field, tennis, golf, etc. As I said in round one, one of the great positive things that comes from sports is the ability to set and attain goals. These goal can be team goals or individual goals, either way it is a confidence builder for a child to see his or her own progress. Because I did not state a definition in the first round I am not going to argue my opponents third statement, only because I have never seen a 10 year old in goth. I will semi agree that sports do tend to support those with strong personalities and physical ability, however not every child on every team is an extraordinary athlete. There will always be weaker, slower children. The whole idea behind youth sports is not to mold our children into the next Barry Sanders or LaBron James, it is to teach them to become strong, self confident adults. A small, weak child may never develop into a world class athlete, but with good encouragement that child will learn confidence and have a higher self-esteem. They may even gain that sense of leadership that they will be able to apply to there everyday adult life. I may be biased because I am a youth sports coach, but when you see the benefits you can see how great these programs are."	PRO	89
89	S2ac397ba-A46a51fb2	eSports should be recognized and respected as official sports	"Thank you for accepting this debate Briannj17, I look forward to arguing this topic with you. For my first point I would like to define the noun sport. The definition by dictionary.com is, ""an athletic activity requiring skill or physical prowess and often of a competitive nature, as racing, baseball, tennis, golf, bowling, wrestling, boxing, hunting, fishing, etc.""[1]. Notice how it says an athletic activity requiring skill OR physical prowess. I bring this point because I find many people argue the point that eSports are not physical enough, and that anyone could do it. I can prove this false. Professional eSport players are not able to just jump in and be good. Many pros put in thousands of hours of work. They practice and scrim all day long to prepare for tournaments. Team Liquid claims to practice at least 50 hours a week, and team liquid isn't even great compared to some eSports legends. In the same article it is said two players (Known for being very good) often sleep only four hours a night and practice between 12 and 14 hours per day.[2] eSports players can also very easily lose jobs. Often esports are even watched more than large tournaments of what people consider, ""Real Sports"" as shown in this graph [3].When signed players are often given a gaming house to live in with the team while playing for them. They are expected to practice all day, only taking breaks to eat and sleep.[4] These teams can drop them at anytime. These players have to fight to stay on these favorable teams. Under performing can lose them a spot, lose them a tournament, lose them money, or even lose them a job. This is not even mentioning the constant flaming people get from sources of social media causing many players to leave the eSports scene from the constant berating. An example for this would be Dyrus from TSM (Team SoloMid). He underperformed a few games, got flamed by reddit, and eventually left because he felt he was letting people down. The same thing happened to TSM's old mid laner Reginald. This shows how stressful eSports can be. All of these elements together along with the competitive element and faithful community should show why eSports should be recognized as an actual sport. http://dictionary.reference.com... [1] http://www.businessinsider.com... [2] http://espn.go.com...[3] http://espn.go.com...["	PRO	90
90	Sdf72c7ac-A82d93547	Women and Contact Sports	The Resolution: The disagreement about the meaning of the resolution is resulting mainly from our contrasting view of what is meant by “should.” I will go back to my original point about offering different classes based on students’ abilities and interests. To argue against this on the basis that some schools lack funding or could not draw significant participation is to avoid the matter itself. By arguing that something should be done, I am arguing that it is good in itself. If the entire United States were destroyed by aliens tomorrow, it would still be a good idea in itself for schools to offer more classes. Con later equates my claim to the argument that schools should offer twenty-five foreign languages. I would say that they should! The fact that not all schools have the resources to do so does not make this a bad idea in itself. Argument One: Benefits to Women I now better understand what Con is arguing. I will refer him and readers to Rule 2. If contact sports are inferior to life sports, it logically follows that males should not participate in contact sports either. Unless Con can explain why life sports are better for women but not for men this argument is prohibited. Argument Two: Sexism Con makes a valid point in proposing that cheerleading is still considered a women’s activity even though men participate. However, I did not go so far as to say that it would change perceptions overnight or that it would eliminate problems entirely. I would suggest that it is easier for traditionally masculine activities to become gender neutral than for traditionally female activities to do the same. For one thing, males are likely to face more derision than females for violating gender norms. Sports like gymnastics, track and field, and soccer are considered gender neutral even though they were traditionally masculine. I do not foresee men’s powder-puff football taking off in the same way. There is simply no analogy. In the mid 20th Century males dominated college attendance in the United States, but now female attendance has equalized. [1] Positive social changes can occur, and we should take action to bring them about. Furthermore, cheerleading is in no way equal to football. They are about equal in popularity, but football receives far more attention. They are both technically there to entertain the crowd, but it is the football players who draw the crowd and it is their performance that ultimately matters. No one watches the Superbowl to see how the cheerleaders do. Con ignores the point about how women are overtly mocked and subordinated even in “legitimate” sports. The attitudes surrounding activities like “powder-puff” football are too obvious to ignore. Argument Three: Participation Con is right in principle here, but I will note that the example I gave was orders of magnitude larger than his. A vastly greater number of women than ever before are participating in contact sports even in spite of the barriers. If barriers were taken down then participation would increase exponentially at an even greater rate. I have already provided evidence of such high demand. Universities are establishing contact sports teams for women, and participation in high school contact sports is increasing. [2,3] There is strong research and consistent agreement among related organizations to suggest that offering such sports is beneficial. [4,5] Counterargument One: There Is No Reason To Prefer Contact Sports I will refer to Rule 2 again. Con is arguing that we should get rid of contact sports entirely, which is specifically not allowed. It is nonsense to say that this objection applies only to women. In any case, the fact that there is no reason to favor running intensive sports is not an argument against soccer and track. There does not have to be a specific reason to favor an activity in order for it to be productive. That some people prefer certain sports is sufficient. Con compares women’s contact sports to a variety of obscure activities, many of which are not sports. I am not advocating for alligator wrestling (sounds a bit dangerous), but if possible schools should offer even unpopular sports. They are limited by available resources, but in principle as resources increase more programs can and should be offered. Those schools that have sufficient resources should offer contact sports for women. Counterargument Two: Existing Sports Would Have To Be Cut Con equates what is true situationally to what is true in principle. Inability to fund women’s contact sports is not an intrinsic trait of all athletic budgets. One cannot possibly prove that it is a bad idea in principle just because not everyone has the resources to do it now. Consider the argument, “All sick people should receive medical treatment.” That is obviously not possible now, but it is a desirable outcome that we should strive for. Con has presented obstacles that must be overcome but has said nothing about the desirability of the goal itself. Unless Con can show that all schools in the US will never be able to afford these programs, all he’s left with is Title IX. Considering that fact that Title IX is itself criticized for precluding women from contact sports, using it as evidence is a little questionable. [6] If it is a problem then it should be modified in pursuit of the goal. Consider if I had contended that gay marriage should be allowed in the United States and my opponent cited the DOMA in opposition. My argument does not rest on unlimited funding; it rests on sufficient funding. Women’s football is not infinitely low on the list of priorities for the athletic budget just because it is not on the top. It is certainly above golf, bowling, and other less athletic sports of limited and decreasing popularity. [7] Counterargument Three: Life Sports Are Better Con seems to argue that golf and bicycling offer the same athletic experience as wrestling and football. There is an established difference in the level of intensity demanded by these different activities. More importantly, the experience for the athletes is very different, which is why football draws many participants who would not be interested in life sports. Con also creates a false dichotomy between life sports and contact sports. Both can be funded and offered to students. If he suggests that we should drop contact sports and replacement them with life sports, he is in violation of Rule 2. His arguments all lead to the unstated conclusion that we should eliminate contact sports for both men and women, a line of argument that was specifically prohibited. Conclusion: I apologize for not bringing up Rule 2 in the previous round. This was mostly my fault for not recognizing the implications of what Con meant by finite resources, and because I focused on rebutting his misrepresentation of the resolution as a mandate. His arguments for P1, N1, and N3 are against contact sports and not female participation, which is prohibited. Con has gone to great lengths to dodge the actual issue. His only legitimate objections are logistical problems that are not universally existent. The goal is for schools to establish and promote programs for women. There are financial and social barriers to this, sure. Overcoming these problems is part of what is entailed by the resolution. Positive changes do not come about if we let the immediate obstacles convince us that they are impossible. Sources: [1] http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu... [2] Round 1, Source 1 [3] Round 1, Source 2 [4] http://www.allacademic.com... [5] http://www.womenssportsfoundation.org... [6] http://www.outsports.com... [7] http://online.wsj.com...	PRO	91
91	Sf888e5a8-Ae4c9e849	Video Games are Sports	"Thank you for setting up this debate, I accept to argue that video games are not sports, that eSports are seperate from physical sports. Your definition of sport leaves out the bit about physical exertion that is prevalent in just about every online definition I've ever read, from Google to Merriam Webster to Dictionary.com. The definition of the noun ""sport"" according to Dictionary.com is: ""an athletic activity requiring skill or physical prowess and often of acompetitive nature, as racing, baseball, tennis, golf, bowling, wrestling, boxing, hunting, fishing, etc."" The key word here is, of course, athletic. Video games are not an athletic activity, no matter how quickly you can move your fingers. You said in your argument that professional gamers are athletes but not physical athletes, and if we take a look at the definition of ""athlete"": Merriam Webster: ""a person who is trained or skilled in exercises, sports, or games requiring physical strength, agility, or stamina"" Dictionary.com: ""a person trained or gifted in exercises or contests involving physicalagility, stamina, or strength; a participant in a sport, exercise, or game requiring physical skill."" Prize pools are impressive in eSports, but this does not contribute to the argument that eSports should be considered physical sports, I don't see how this helps your argument. Sports are competitions requiring physical exertion, and in the definition of ""sport"" listed above salary is not mentioned. How much professional gamers are paid has no bearing on whether or not video games are sports. eSports do appear on sports channels and sports news, but it is seperated from all of the other sports and addressed as ""eSports"". ESPN, the world's leading sports news source, has a section for eSports, but it is addressed just as eSports (http://www.espn.com...). This is because eSports are a subcategory of sports, they aren't the same thing, but they have a very similar competitive format. You brought up chess, saying that it is widely regarded as a sport. This is true, but there are good reasons for this. Chess requires peak mental condition, which requires one to also be in peak physical condition. To quote London Chess Conference: ""Peak mental condition requires being in good physical condition. Players need to concentrate totally for up to seven hours. As the stress and tension builds up, blood pressure, pulse and respiration rates all increase. Contenders for the world championships have nutritionists and fitness coaches."" There are numerous other reasons chess is considered a sport on that website, for example chess has been recognized as a sport by the International Olympic Comittee since 2000. In conclusion, video games are not sports, they are eSports. This is a subcategory, not the same thing, different in ways that prohibit eSports from being sports. I feel like I should clarify that I have no problem with eSports, I love eSports. I follow CoD eSports (since it's the game I discovered eSports on) and right now I'm trying to get into CS:GO and Halo's professional scenes. Sources: http://www.dictionary.com... http://www.merriam-webster.com... http://www.dictionary.com... http://londonchessconference.com..."	CON	92
92	S89f1fd16-Af30c1afa	The North Pole Players are the best sports team EVER	"When people think of the North Pole, they often think of Father Christmas and all the reindeer and pretty pretty snow, but what they really should be thinking about in my opinion is the best sports team anyone has ever heard of ever: The North Pole Players. If you visit my profile often, you'll notice the only rhing I've got written down in the ""Favourite Sports teams"" section is 'The North Pole Players' [1]. This is because I've heard of them and therefore know that they're the best team ever by far and no other team can compare to them. What makes them so good? I hear you say. Well, they're at the top of the leaderboard of North Pole Sports teams: #1 - The North Pole Players #2 - The North Nice Ice Mice (team now defunct.) #3 - Rudolph and Co. (All players now eaten) #4 - Father Christmas (team application denied because of lack of players) #5 - The Icicle losers (team not formed yet) #6 - the Curtains crew return for the sixth time (team on retirement) #7 - The present lovers (only one person in this team is old enough to play) #8 - The Tinsel tossers (have been on holiday since June 1993) #9 - Candy canes unite (team do not possess the ability to move) #10 - Manchester United (got lost on the way to the North Pole) Are they a football team? Are they a tennis team? Are they a cricket team? A swimming team? A rugby team? The answer is that they play every sport imaginable *. Whether it be racquets or brackets, the North Pole Players are good at everything sport-related. Here is the commentators' take on their last game: 1: WOW! Never have I seen such a good display of physical talent, and that's just the North Pole Players' entrance! 2: Okay, the game has started 1: No it hasn't, don't be silly commentator one! 2: Okey doke! It's just hard to tell in a North Pole Players game because they're always showing such amazing sports talent! *time passes...* 1: The first player has hit the ball. The other player passes it back. Now, the North Pole Player hits it straight back! 180! That's now a hattrick and we're not even 10 minutes into the match! 2: I concur! *more time passes...* 1: Only one lap to go. 2, How do you think this North Pole Player will do on his last length? 2: Perfectly! 1: That's correct! 2: I concur! 1: The Player catches the ball and then shoots it out of his mouth. It's gone out of the park! The crowd goes wild! 2: We can hear the crowd,1! It's noisy enough without you going on about it! 1: Okay! Calm down, 2! *more time passes...* 1: And the North Pole Players win in a record time of 15 seconds. What do you make of that, 2? 2: Perfectly! 1: That's correct! 2: I concur! So you see, the North Pole Players really are the best vteam ever. Now, Con will make his remarks. Thank you. Sources [1] http://www.debate.org... * - Excluding women's golf"	PRO	93
93	S50231541-A6c3e2b9	Transwomen Should Be Eligible to Play Sports in the Women's League	"Thanks, But this really isn't about proving someone wrong or right. Or convincing you one way or the other. There isn't really a right answer here. All I'm looking for is that you acknowledge the legitimacy of the viewpoint. It's terribly common for people to say if I'm against this I'm anti-trans somehow when nothing could be further from the truth. I want trans women to be able to compete and not have some large percentage of society put an asterisk next to their names when they win. There are plenty of people that oppose this for the wrong reasons or who cannot articulate those reasons. I understand the desire those in the trans community have to compete, And compete with their own gender if possible. I sincerely hope one day we can do this in a way people consider fair. That line is terribly hard to draw for normal sex-based sports, Which is the legit complaint most have. It's a bit hard to address your points specifically when you put '1' next to all of them. Probably in the future best to assign different numbers to each. I'll address them as I can. 1. The problem is 10% of biological males are superior to every single biological female. The argument you're using here would work for someone arguing female sports should not exist. That there should be only one league for all sexes. This is actually something that could work, But I'll address it in my solution section below. Again, The problem isn't that trans women could lose, It is that no female could possibly win against a trans woman that fell into the top 10% of biological males. (roughly) 2. The problem here is the difference between sex and gender has only recently been drawn. If the term ""women's league"" were updated to today's standards it would be 'female's league' referring to the biological sex one was born with. You're using current definitions of gender with old definitions of gender that matched 100% with biology. If we called it 'female's league' would you suddenly have no problem with the exclusion of trans people? I think not. So trying to win a debate along the same lines seems silly. When we created male versus female sports it was always intended to be sex-based. You can argue that some males will be 10% better than other males. The problem is there's not 10% of another biological sex that are impossible for ALL biological males to beat that are trying to compete with them and say there's nothing wrong with it. There is no telling biological females to ""just work harder. "" There are things that are impossible to do. You can't lift the car? Just work harder! I understand your point. Let me rephrase it in a way people on my side will understand better. You're saying that in sports some females can perform 10% better than other females, If not more. This is of course true. The thing is we have separate leagues for this. There are gold and silver leagues in soccer, D C B A leagues in tennis et cetera. We don't put an A member versus a D member and think it's an even contest. What you're essentially saying is that transwomen should be allowed to compete in female leagues. This means inevitably there will be a disproportionate number of transwomen in the higher female leagues, And that trans women can outcompete the best females if they are among the 10% of biological males to have that advantage over all females. Your view is that this is not a problem because they are the same gender. My problem is that while they are the same gender, They are not the same sex. We don't have gender-based sports. We have sex-based sports. If you take a poll of people who understand the difference between biology and gender, The majority would agree with this statement. So to repeat. You seem to consider these as gender-based leagues instead of sex-based leagues. Your view is perfectly consistent if this is true. The problem is relatively few people agree with that stance. Most people think they are sex-based leagues. If you take this view, You're putting people who are members of a biologically superior sex in a league of people in a biologically inferior sex. It's not a problem that members of the same subset of people can be 10% better than one another. The problem is when you take a second unique subset of people that are superior and pit them against them. In this case there is some percentage of this subset that will always win, And you're expecting people to congratulate the victors of the highest leagues when they are biologically incapable of losing without seriously slacking on their training. You then say ""just work harder"" to those who cannot possibly achieve that level. It's at least a bit dishonest. It really does seem like your whole position is centered around gender-based leagues instead of the commonly understood sex-based leagues due to the new definition of 'gender' not being perfectly consistent yet. So please, Answer this question: would you have a problem with it if we made sure to always say ""Female League? "" 3. You agree that ideally transwomen should have their own league. Why? You probably understand that they have this advantage. There may not currently be enough transwomen to kick all females out of the olypmics, But there is no guarantee that that will always be true. As stigmas against subsets of the population are removed over time, We learn just how many of them are out there. Gays were largely in hiding until they became more socially accepted. Atheists are largely still in hiding. I count transgenders much closer to Atheists than Gays in this case, Particularly trans athletes. Stigma still exists, Largely due to the fact that many 'cis' people have never had a conversation with a trans person. Just as largely, Because trans people are largely sick of having to explain themselves because they are such a small percentage of the population. Just as largely, Trans people may not be that good at explaining themselves. Largely again, Because they occasionally blow things out of proportion or misunderstand what people are intending with what they say, And they scream wildly at them. These small percentage of scenarios are publicized by right-leaning people way more than any of the normal scenarios and it furthers the stigma. All that being said, We have no reason to think that the trans community is not going to grow in the future. As stigma decreases, Hopefully the suicide rates will decrease and more people will come out of the closet. With these factors in mind, It is clear the trans community will grow. 4. I'd need to see your study showing african-american men have an advantage when it comes to global sports. You say 77% of NBA players are african-american which is no doubt true, But I can quite easily attribute this to culture, Not a biological advantage. That would be similar to me saying white people have a biological advantage in Golf, Which is not true. Whites that are affluent happen to play golf more. This is culture. Please provide a specific link to bone mass or muscle mass and the overall statistical advantage blacks have over whites in sports and I may accept your point. I don't need to stretch very far to disprove it. Either way, The advantage would be small enough to not come close to the bio male versus female gap, And I could more than likely attribute it to nothing more than the natural margin of error that comes with all studies. If blacks had some sort of statistical advantage it would not be racist to have separate leagues. Luckily for me, Correlation is not causation and your 77% NBA player link means nothing and I have a clear explanation for it. 5. There is no contradiction for disqualifying biological sex and genes. They're sex-based sports not gene-based sports. If everyone is training optimally it is 100% genes. But certainly, Not everyone is training optimally. Solutions We could eliminate sex-based sports if we were to develop a system that separated people into leagues like heavyweight/featherweight does. Nospace -Thoht"	CON	94
94	S9992d875-A18a45a26	High School Varsity Sports should be eliminated	"First, I would like to thank my opponent for starting this debate. Although I find this kind of argument to be inherently biased toward Con, I will try my best to 1) persuade voters that not all ""high school varsity sports promote teamwork and cooperation at a higher level than regular sports."" I will also try to 2) defeat my opponents claim that there is a correlation between participating in varsity sports at some point in ones high school career and becoming a professional athlete. 1) Not all high school varsity sports promote teamwork and cooperation at a higher lever than regular sports. 1a) ""Not all high school varsity sports promote teamwork and cooperation"" -- Wrestling is a high school varsity sport in which an individual bouts another individual of a similar weight class by using locks, holds, pins, take downs, and throws to help submit the other competitor on the wrestling mat. There is no point in any match where a teammate is allowed to assist or interfere with the individuals who are wrestling. Thus, each wrestler operates alone while he or she is wrestling in the match. The only way teamwork would be applied to wrestling would be to combine the statistics of each individual effort on the team, but even then its just combining data, the statisticians don't contribute to ""teamwork"" anyway. Golf can be explained in the same way with the exception of scrabble matches, where teams shoot from the same spot and keep the best score at the end of each hole. Tennis, with the exception of doubles matches, is also set up in the same manner. Swimming, minus relay teams, is done without the assistance of a teammate. Bowling is done by one person per frame, and again, only the combination of the final scores creates the illusion of teamwork. This concludes my point that ""not all high school sports promote teamwork and cooperation"". 1b) There are some sports that do include teamwork in the traditional form. Some of these high school varsity sports are baseball, basketball, football, lacrosse, ice hockey, and soccer. So I would like to rephrase the previous statement to read: ""Of the high school varsity sports that promote teamwork and cooperation, they do so at a higher level than regular sport."" I would like to contend this by saying first that you weren't specific in defining what a ""regular sport"" is, so I have to assume that it is something similar to what you would find in a high school varsity sport, but without the high school players. To me, this resembles a travel team that is for kids of the same age groups as high school students, but is associated with the city or some other organization that is not a high school. I have to reason to believe that outside of each coaches subjective teaching style, that there are any advantages to playing at a high school that would offer a higher level of teamwork and cooperation other than what is inherently offered in each respective.I would like to invite Con to bear the burden of proof to help support his statement there. 2) ""Most professional athletes in the world come from a varsity team at some point."" That is to say there is a correlation between participating in varsity sports at some point in ones high school career and becoming a professional athlete. -- This would suggest that by playing high school varsity sports, athletes are more likely to qualify for the professional league of their sport. I would disagree by saying that the chances of making it into any professional sport is very slim. Also, for every person who plays a high school sport and makes it into the professional league of their sport, there are thousands of kids who go through the same varsity sports, at the same schools, all across the country, that do not make their respective professional leagues. It is just pure numbers that support Con's argument. There are more kids attend high school than kids who do not attend high school all across the country. So by pure chance, there are going to be more professional athletes that attended high school than those who did not attend high school."	PRO	95
95	Sdf72c7ac-Ad7549a32	Women and Contact Sports	"The Resolution I accept Pro's rules. Pro neglected to define ""contact sport,"" but his examples of football and wrestling should suffice for this debate. Wikipedia gives the definitions http://en.wikipedia.org... The resolution is that ""High schools and colleges in the United States should establish and promote women’s teams in contact sports, including football and wrestling."" So at minimum high schools an colleges are compelled by the resolution to establish women's football teams and women's wrestling teams. This departs from present policy in which each high school and college makes an independent decision as to what women's sports they establish and promote. Whether the school is in Alaska, where winter sports prevail, or Hawaii, where ocean sports are popular, the women should have a football team -- or so Pro contends. Pro's Contentions Rebutted Pro gives no reason why tradition, local preferences, and the wishes of the women athletes should be overridden in favor of devoting scarce resources to a women's football team. Pro offers four contentions, but none support the resolution. Pro begins by reciting past history in which women were prohibited from participation in contact sports. There are currently no such prohibitions, and Pro cited none. If the resolution were that women's contact sports would be permitted, I would support the resolution. That's not the resolution. In fact Pro cites both the existence of women's wrestling and it's increasing popularity. That contradicts his notion that it is prohibited, and it undermines the notion that it cannot prosper without the resolution. P1. Benefits to women. Pro contends that sports benefits women. Sure. I agree. So why does that imply that a women's football team should be required. Men's football teams are not required, and Pro is not contending that those men are not benefiting from sports. So why should women's football teams be required? P2. Sexism. Pro argues that football is perceived as a macho sport. Pro doe not say why having a sport perceived as macho is harmful or how the establishment of a women's football team would cure any such problem. Some sports are considered feminine: synchronized swimming, gymnastic floor exercises performed to music, and gymnastics with apparatus. So, must we compel men's synchronized swimming, and so forth? Other sports like figure skating are perceived as feminine. The women's competitions draw considerably more interest than the men's, despite there being both men's and women's teams. Insofar as such perceptions exist, they do no harm, and having tams for both sexes does not necessarily remedy the perception. Cheerleading is not currently a sport, but Pro perceives it as a girls' activity. Male cheerleaders have been around for some time, but it hasn't changed Pro's perception. Sports need not be contact sports to be perceived s macho. Weightlifting is not a contact sport, nor the gymnastics rings competition. If Pro can find something wrong with a mach perception, then his resolution should be directed at macho sports, not contact sports. I am not arguing that sports perceived masculine or feminine ought to be preserved. My argument is that the decisions ought to be left to the individual schools and the participants. P3. Participation. Pro contends that women's participation in traditionally male sports is increasing. So how does that imply that every school should have a women's football team? Schools should respond to the choices of students, not attempt to indoctrinate them to Pro's way of thinking. If participation is increasing then some traditional sports will eventually be dropped and replaced with new sports. Football is not particularly dangerous, so that is not a relevant concern. ""More than half a million people suffered basketball-related injuries last year, compared to 485,000 hurt on bikes and 418,000 injured playing football."" http://www.livescience.com... Negative Contentions Here are my negative arguments: N1. There's no reason to prefer contact sports Contact sports have no advantage over other sports, so there is no reason to promote them. The two most popular school sports in Europe are soccer and gymnastics, and they are so popular that everything else is pretty much an also-ran. http://www.youth-sport.net... The popularity is shared by boys and girls. So is there some compelling reason why rugby ought to be promoted in Europe above their current favorites? Pro has the burden to prove there is something better, or there is no reason to force their establishment and promotion. I see no reason. the Europeans are doing fine without a very popular contact sport. In the U.S. the most popular boys sports are basketball, football, baseball, track and field, and soccer. For girls it is basketball, soft ball, track and field, volleyball, and soccer. http://www.livestrong.com... Football, the only contact sport, is clearly an oddity in that regard. Four of the five most popular sports are already available and popular with both sexes. N2. Existing women's sports will have to be dropped to add football and wrestling. Title IX, enacted in 1972, mandates that equal funds be spent on men's and women's sports. No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance... —United States Code Section 20,http://en.wikipedia.org... Funds for athletics are tight, but whatever is available is split equally. About 670 colleges have dropped men's wrestling as a varsity sport. http://www.usawrestlingnation.com... Even though wrestling is a cheap sport, especially compared to football, there are not enough participating men to justify the programs. http://www.collegesportsscholarships.com... Football remains popular, especially with high school boys. However, football is also suffering from lack of resources, with programs being cut. http://badgerherald.com... More than thirty major schools have downgraded their football programs or dropped it altogether. http://collegefootball.about.com... If men's wrestling and football are having great difficulties, there is no reasonable chance of them succeeding as women's sports. If the resolution were put into effect, money would be spent in futile efforts to establish and promote women's teams. The only place the money can come from is by discontinuing established popular women's sports. The inevitable result is decreased participation by women in sports. The resolution replaces popular sports with unpopular ones. N3. Life sports are better. If the resolution is implemented, it would attempt to entrench sports that cannot be played in later life. Sports like golf, tennis, biking, swimming, and softball can be played after leaving school. That provides for long term heath and exercise benefits. If any attempt is to be made to displace established sports, it ought to be done with the long term benefits to the participants in mind. I don't think there should be any general mandate, but there is it ought to be towards life sports. The resolution goes in the wrong direction. ------------ The resolution fails because because schools and athletes should determine what sports should be established and promoted, not external mandate. Resources for athletics are limited, so the resolution would displace popular sports with unpopular. Pro has given us no pertinent benefits to the resolution health or participation. The resolution is negated."	CON	96
96	Sdf72c7ac-A74bd024c	Women and Contact Sports	"The Resolution There is no enforcement body that demands resolutions be obeyed. The compulsion of the resolution is from the supposed superiority of the facts and logic supporting it over alternatives. A case is ""compelling"" if the conclusion cannot be resisted by counter argument. If the benefits of establishing and promoting contact sports for women outweigh the disadvantages, then no school will have sufficient reason not to establish and promote contact sports for women. Your school does not have a women's football team. It's very likely your school is obeying Title IX and is now equally funding men's and women's athletics. If the resolution is affirmed, then whoever is in charge of the athletics program should drop an existing women'ssport, hire a football coach for a women's team, buy the needed equipment, and promote the new team. There might be some peculiar circumstances -- a school for the blind might be exempted from football -- but the logic should be compelling in every normal case. Your school should be compelled by the logic of the affirmative case to carry out the resolution. The current circumstances are that women's sports are guaranteed equal funding by law and which sports are established and promoted are determined by the schools and the interests of the athletes. Pro has offered no compelling reason to abandon that way of doing business. 1. Benefits to women The resolution states: High schools and colleges in the United States should establish and promote women’s teams in contact sports, including football and wrestling. But in R2, Pro says ""If it is not logistically rational to have a football program, then a football program should not be established."" If it s not logistically rational to have a football team, then the resolution fails because the resolution claims it is rational to do so. Admittng that it may or may not be rational depending upon circumstances negates the resolution and concedes the debate. So what are the claimed benefits to women? Pro concedes that contact sports are no better than other sports. I claim that contact sports are worse, because contact sports are not life sports, and moves the women's program away from life sports. 2. Sexism Pro's premise is that promoting contact sports for women would reduce sexism. My rebuttal is if we examine sports traditionally thought to be feminine, having male participation has not diminished that perception. There are male cheerleaders, but nonetheless Pro vigorously maintains that cheerleading is a female sport. (I said cheerleading is like a sport. Pro says it is a sport. It's being a sport better supports my case.) Pro responds that what happens in male sports, i.e., sexism is not eliminated by equal access, does not apply to women's sports. Male cheerleaders have no affect on cheerleading being perceived as a female sport, but Pro expects that having female football players would change the way football is perceived. That's sexist. I'm shocked. the psychology is the same, it is attached to the sport, not the participants. Pro's case rests upon football having cheerleaders. If cheerleading is a source of evil permeating society, then the cure is to ban cheerleading, not to try to make football players out of cheerleaders. Cheerleading really is not a problem,. Society should not demand that men and women always be interchangeable. I don't agree that cheerleading is subordinate. Cheerleaders are working with the crowd of spectators, not with the football players. Football players are there to entertain the crowd, and cheerleaders are doing exactly the same thing. I think cheerleaders know they are part of the event, not subordinate to the game. 3. Participation Pro cited statistics that women's wrestling has increased substantially, so therefore it proves there is a sweeping demand for contact sports. If a sport has 20 participants when it's introduced and 100 participants a few years later, that's 500% growth. If tiddly-winks were introduced as a sport, we would expect the same thing to happen. It depends upon starting from zero an a small number of people being accommodated. Consider, “ Curling is a fast-growing sport that incorporates strategy, teamwork, sportsmanship and social interaction into a fun-filled game.” http://www.stateoforegon.info... Fast growth does not indicate broad demand. I challenge Pro to produce evidence of broad demand by women for women's football. If it replaced another sport, overall participation would drop. N1. There Is No Reason To Prefer Contact Sports Pro agrees there is no reason to prefer contact sports. A resolution is affirmed if the advantages outweigh the disadvantages. So when Pro grants there is no reason to prefer contact sports, it means there is no advantage in terms of athletics. The only claimed advantages are in the realm of social engineering. Pro argues that if something is not offered than it is ""denied"" and so contact sports should be offered to remedy the denial. Similarly, most students are denied caber tossing, alligator wrestling, log rolling, knife throwing, sumo, harri jasotzea (stone lifting), and rope skipping . N2. Existing Women's Sports Would Have To Be Dropped Pro says the point would be true if athletic budgets were fixed. I provided evidence that athletics budgets are in fact contracting, with men's football and wrestling being dropped. Pro provided no evidence that budgets are expanding or could be expanded, beyond the theory that funds could be raised. The resolution is that schools should establish and encourage women's contact sports. Schools work within budgets funded by taxes. Sports like Little league are funded by contributions, but those are not within the school system. The debate is ""in the United States"" and in the United states schools have fixed or, more likely, shrinking, athletics budgets. To understand by point consider a resolution, ""Schools in the United States should offer courses in no fewer than twenty-five foreign languages."" That would be great if unlimited funding were available, but we know that is not the case, and it is unreasonable to assume unlimited funding is the case. If the resolution were prefaced with, ""If funds are available ..."" it would be a different story, but that is not what is proposed. Pro argues, ""The fact that men's teams are being cut is not an argument that men's teams shouldn't be established and promoted, is it?"" It's an argument that new teams of a certain type shouldn't be established or promoted, unless there was a case for cutting the existing teams. N3. Life sports are better. I n the real world there are finite resources. In reality, contact sports compete with other sports for ""establishment and promotion."" I contend that life sports should be preferred because of the lasting benefits. Pro claims that contact sports have the advantage of being a team sport. Pro's two main examples are football, a team sport, and wrestling, not a team sport. There is a wrestling team, but matches are one-on-one. Life sports include baseball and doubles tennis, both team sports. Pro argues that life sports all lack ""physical skill and coordination, and competitiveness."" That's not the case. Life sports include tennis, golf, racket ball, and skiing. Summary Pro claims the debate is set in a fantasy world of unlimited resources. In the real world the resolution is negated. Pro further claims that affirming that contact sports should be implemented does not mean that there is are compelling reasons to actually implement them, but rather only to wish it. That's admitting the resolution does not have compelling reasons behind it."	CON	97
97	Sdf72c7ac-A593812b7	Women and Contact Sports	Resolved: High schools and colleges in the United States should establish and promote women’s teams in contact sports, including football and wrestling. Rules: 1. If a debater forfeits a round, he/she forfeits all 7 points and the debate. 2. It is assumed that males shall also participate in contact sports, the argument that all contact sports should be eliminated is not allowed. 3. No semantics or unreasonable interpretations of the resolution/arguments. 4. No new arguments in the last round. 5. As per my opponent's request, all sources must be posted in the debate. Introduction: Young men in the United States have been competing in contact sports for centuries. These sports promote physical fitness and foster an attitude of healthy competition and a drive for success. As I will go into later, there are a huge number of benefits to participating in sports, especially for children and young adults. Unfortunately, women have limited opportunities to participate in many of the most popular and physically demanding sports. There are virtually no women’s football teams, and females comprise about 2% of high school wrestlers. [1][3] Only a few colleges offer women’s wrestling teams and there are virtually no women’s football teams. [2] This restriction on athletic participation is unjustifiably discriminatory. The United States has a dismal record on allowing women to participate in sports. As today, most of the justifications for why women were not allowed to participate were based on false assumptions. As a runner, I have read of the example of the women’s 800 meters multiple times. The event was cut from the Olympics until 1960 because of the exhausted state of the finishers. [4] Of course, it is madness to assume that at the end of a race at the Olympic level the finishers wouldn’t be exhausted. Despite restrictions on women’s distance running, it now regularly takes a time close to 1:55 to win an Olympic medal in the women’s 800. The doubts about the physical ability to women to participate in this competition were completely unfounded. With the following arguments, I think I will be able to prove that the lack of opportunities afforded to women is undesirable, unnecessary, and unacceptable. Argument One: Sports Benefit Women. Studies have consistently shown that sports are beneficial to children. They increase self confidence, teach kids life lessons about winning and losing, and require cooperation and social skills. Many sports, especially football and wrestling, have complex rules and require strategic thinking in order to have success. Sports also increase physical fitness, reduce weight problems, and improve body image, especially for girls. [5] Therefore, it is only reasonable the both boys and girls should be encouraged to participate in sports throughout their time in school, and colleges should allow everyone equal opportunities to continue participation in these sports if they offer them. Argument Two: Sports and Sexism Football is entirely a male sport, and the players are encouraged from the sidelines by cheerleading squads comprised almost entirely of women. The attitude behind this is exactly what it suggests: males are the performers who participate in the real competition; women may cheer them on from the sidelines but they are never real participants. The glorification of male exploits and the delegation of women to the position of observers send a very overt and very real message about what the social expectations are for men and women. These attitudes are irrational and ultimately reduce the subconscious views that women have for themselves; they can only be harmful and should be challenged rather than encouraged. The existence of “powder-puff” sports cements this idea. [6] The female substitution of ‘real’ men’s sports is given a silly name and softened-up rules appropriate for those who cannot handle the rigor of a serious competition. However they are played off, these competitions are little more then a mockery of female athletes and the competence of women in general. Athletics should elevate, not insult, the physical prowess of human beings regardless of sex. Argument Three: Appeal of Women’s Sports All indicators seem to suggest that participation by women traditionally male dominated sports is increasing. The number of girls participating in high school wrestling has risen dramatically. [1] This participation is no doubt serious decreased by the fact that women do not have their own teams. This places them in constant unfair competition, and some people discourage them from participating because they consider it inappropriate for women to compete with men in contact sports. Both of these problems could be remedied by offering women the opportunity to join female-only teams for these sports. There is good reason to believe that these sports would attract a significant number of participants and rapidly increase in popularity. Argument Four: Concerns about the Physical Limitations of Women Are Unjustified If women participate against other women in contact sports, there is no reason to suggest there would be a higher rate of injury than experienced by men in these same sports. Because women are smaller and physically weaker than men, they are less able to cause harm. If anything, women are more physically resilient relative to their size and strength than men. I would suggest that men are more likely to hurt one another in athletic competitions because resistance to injury does not logically scale linearly with strength. [7] Many of the assumptions about the risks to women posed by these sports assume that they would participate against men. Well, even the fastest woman in the world would not be a serious contender in the men’s 800 meters at the Olympics. That does not mean that women cannot compete against each other in track and field. Conclusion: It would be highly beneficial for high schools and colleges to establish programs in contact sports for women and encourage them to participate in these programs. They are known advantages to participating in sports for people of all ages, and it is especially important for children and youths. Treating women on an equal ground in sports is furthermore an extension of an acceptance of women as equal competitors elsewhere in life. Women may not be able to fairly compete against men due to physical differences between the sexes, but their sports should not be treated as below those even of boys in primary school. Sources: [1] http://www.nytimes.com... [2] http://collegiatewomenswrestling.com... [3] http://en.wikipedia.org... [4] http://www.runlikeagirlfilm.com... [5] http://parenting.families.com... [6] http://en.wikipedia.org... [7] http://en.wikipedia.org...	PRO	98
98	Sdf72c7ac-A9669993b	Women and Contact Sports	"Introduction: Thanks to my opponent for accepting this debate. His response was extremely strong and I look forward to discussing it. The Resolution: Con suggests that the resolution implies or suggests an external mandate requiring educational institutions to implement certain policies. I would advocate no such imposition and specified neither an authority nor a policy to carry out such a mandate. When I say that high schools and colleges should do something, I mean it would favorable for them to do so. There is a clear and significant difference between the suggestion that something should be done and that it must be done. Furthermore, the resolution is a blanket statement refering to educational instutions in general and cannot be expected to be applicable on a case by case basis. At a school with a graduating class of twenty, it would not make sense to establish a football team. It would also not be effective to offer honors or remedial classes. Still, ceteris paribus, these classes do benefit students. I would suggest that the resolution be interpreted in the same way. It does not have to be universally true to be generally true. Defense of my Case: Con asserts, as is factually correct, that there are no prohibitions against women participating in certain sports. My introduction to the debate is frequently an exposition on the background of my position and my thoughts on the matter, and I did not mean to suggest that it was the current state of affairs. The fact remains that women are passively denied the oppurtunity to participate in certain sports. If there is no women's wrestling team, women do not have the oppurtunity to participate in this sport. They might be permitted to compete against males, but this competition is unfair and has a greater social stigma; both of these factors may discourage women from participating in an activity that could bring them both personal enjoyment and health benefits. The barriers with football are even more pronounced. Argument One: Benefits to Women Con's only argument is that though sports teams are beneficial, they should not be required. The resolution does not specify a requirement. If it is not logistically rational to have a football program, then a football program should not be established. This is true of any program. It does not refute the resolution because this level of strictiness is in no way required. Argument Two: Sexism While Con brings up a number of related cases in his rebuttal, he does not address the matter at hand. I would suggest that educational institutions provide men with oppurtunities to participate in traditionally femenin sports, and I would suggest that women be give more oppurtunities in traditionally masculine sports that are non-contact. However, these issues are outside the scope of the debate. I would suggest that promoting these teams would have an effect on social perceptions. People are feel discouraged from participating in activities that people like them are not normally involved in. They can be motivated to try positive things through the active promotion of oppurtunities for them. [1] Con cannot ignore that fact that the differences between the male expectations in sports and the female expectations overtly suggest that the male role is superior and the female role subordinate. Cheerleaders literally stand on the sidelines of the competition, and powder-puff sports are an intentional mockery of the real game. As the rhetoric of football greats exhorts the roles it prepares young men for, the roles that cheerleading prepares women for are clear. That these attitudes would have lasting implications is blindingly obvious. I would also like to make two corrections to Con's case. Cheerleading is considered a sport in some areas, included the state of Wisconsin. It has clear athletic elements. In any case, the statement that it is a girl's activity is not merely ""[my] perception"" as Con puts it. It is estimated that 97% of cheerleading participants are female, so to describe this simply an interpretation is bordering on the invention of factors. [2] In addition to this, I am compelled to note once again that I have not suggested that these decisions should not be left to the schools. Argument Three: Participation Once again, the resolution does not say that every school must have a women's football team or that they must be externally forced to. It does not outline a policy or authority. I have contended that ceteris paribus it is beneficial for schools to establish women's teams in contact sports. Con's counterarguments seem to support my case more than his. He says that schools should respond to the choices of students. Well, the 500% increase in the number of female wrestlers in the past decade is a cleary indicater of what students want. [3] He also argues that football is not a dangerous sport, which seems helpful to the cause of promoting access to football programs. Argument Four: Concerns about Physical Limitations This was a preemptive argument on my part. I will assume that Con dropped it because it is not important to his case. This should not be held against him. I will leave it out if he continues to do so. Counteragument One: There Is No Reason To Prefer Contact Sports I agree will Con on this point. However, it's not an effective argument. There is no reason to prefer sports that involving lots of running, yet this is not an argument against soccer and cross country. The resolution implied no mandate, and it certainly implied no requirement to promote contact sports over other sports. Women are already allowed to participate in many of the most popular sports, so it would have been pointless to debate about that. None of this changes that fact that many females want to participate in contact sports and it would be beneficial to give them a chance to do so. Counterargument Two: Existing Women's Sports Would Have To Be Dropped This contention would be true if we assume that athletic budgets are fixed. However, althetic teams frequently do a great deal of fundraising, especially at the high school level. [4] As I have stated ad nausem, no one will be forcing anyone to allocate funds in a certain way. I don't know why Con considers this to be the logical extension of a resolution that states at a certain course of action is generally beneficial, but he uses this objection in every argument. In a situation with tight funds, starting new programs of any kind is not desirable. The fact that men's teams are being cut is not an argument that men's teams shouldn't be established and promoted, is it? It simply means that it is not financially feasible to do so. That fact that we should do something does not mean we must do it in spite of logistical or financial problems that arise on a case by case basis. Programs that can afford to do so should promote women's contact sports. Counterargument: Life Sports Are Better Con makes another generally agreeable point that does not effectively counter the resolution. Contact sports should do not have be promoted at the expense of life sports. However, some people simply prefer contact sports or would be more likely to get involved in them. A girl who would rather play football than swim should be given the oppurtunity. Many of the sports Con provided are frequented used in cross training for contact sports in any case. [5] Furthermore, these sports all lack many of the vital components of contact sports, including teamwork, physical skill and coordination, and competitiveness. One does not gain the same experience bicycling as by being on a Varsity football team. Sources: [1] Economics: The Ideas, The Issues by Jerry Evensky [2] http://en.wikipedia.org... [3] http://www.nytimes.com...;(formerly source 1) [4] http://maineaf.com... [5] http://en.wikipedia.org..."	PRO	99
99	S3c6a4e0b-A9624cc41	Baseball is America's past time when it comes to sports.	Do football would be the most popular sport among spectators. But baseball is our countrys past time. Because football is popular now doesn't make it our past times baseball should be brought back into the lime light and honored as the great game as it is. These sports are in two different seasons. The summer is warm and people are out and about. But the fall and winter is cold while people are inside and have time to watch the games for football	PRO	100
100	S3c6a4e0b-Af6bc5863	Baseball is America's past time when it comes to sports.	"SPorts have been the back bone for this great country. When there is war, when there is peace, there is sports. Baseball has been around since the late 1800's and has been the biggest sport played in this country. It is what brings people together and is one of the toughest skilled played game there is. Baseball has some many traditions that comes with the game that is so exciting to watch. Such as the 7th inning stretch, the umpire yelling ""play ball"", and hot dogs shared between a father and son as the game starts. The players have traditions all their own. Whether on the field or off the field the game has changed live and made this country happier and better with every game played."	PRO	101
101	S3c6a4e0b-A617a41cb	Baseball is America's past time when it comes to sports.	Given that American Citizens generally choose other activities or sports besides baseball and spend more time and $$ watching other professional sports than baseball, it's clear that Baseball is no longer America's pastime. The data presented in my prior round serves as support for my statement. I will waive my right to participate in the last two rounds as I believe my argument is complete.	CON	102
102	S3c6a4e0b-Af8acbc10	Baseball is America's past time when it comes to sports.	"I accept the debate with the understanding that when you stated that Baseball is America's ""past time"" what you likely meant to state is that Baseball is America's ""pastime"". ""Past Time"" is a moment of time in history, not present day. ""Pastime"" means something that amuses and serves to make time pass agreeably (http://www.merriam-webster.com...), specifically in relation to sports in this debate. Pro, state your case."	CON	103
103	S3c6a4e0b-A5cd2938e	Baseball is America's past time when it comes to sports.	My argument is that it is Americas past time. All these other sports are now so popular in the U.S., that now it is important to keep baseball up there as the most important game in this country. I was speaking about present day and how it is the same as it has always been for baseball. Nothing has changed when it comes to the game. Pure and simple. Baseball is important to keep around and play because it connects us with our past. It is our countys past time. It has made this country better, game by game	PRO	104
104	S49f41610-Ac01137e2	Are Esports real sports	Okay first of all chess is not a sport it is even less physical exertion than e sports. Sports require physical exertion e sports have none whatsoever . They are not sports.	CON	105
105	S49f41610-A80209d4a	Are Esports real sports	First of all This is a friendly debate so no trash talk please. Second I never said E-sports require no skill. On the contrary they require a lot of skill, but what I have problem with is that people consider them athletic to be an athlete. To be an athlete you have to physically train to be better at your sport but with E-sports you may train for your competition but it has no physical value. Def. of a sport an activity involving physical exertion and skill in which an individual or team competes against another or others for entertainment. See you have to have physical exertion. You may have some physical exertion in e sports from moving your hands but you have more physical sleeping than you do in e sports. So could I set up a competitive sleeping competition and then it would be classified as a sport? No! sleeping is not a sport and therefore neither are e sports. https://www.recode.net... https://www.theodysseyonline.com... https://www.reddit.com...	CON	106
106	S49f41610-Af83340d6	Are Esports real sports	E sports are not real sports you sit at a computer and hit the keys where as real sports you are actually doing something. I think it is outrageous that people consider these real sports.	CON	107
107	S49f41610-A8fc7529	Are Esports real sports	Okay, listen here. Just as a clarification, I play badminton (sometimes competitively) and used to compete in track in field., and I play video games as entertainment. Some people play sports for entertainment as well. There are different types of video games. Not all of them are sports- RPG games cannot, but playing Esports competitively can. As someone mentioned in the comments, there are plenty of sports that require little physical conduct, like Go! or Chess, which, as I said before, is recognized as a sport in over 100 countries. You need to practice strategy and hone your skills to be able to stand a chance in a competition for these things, especially chess. Physical sports also require strategy, I got the definition from Dictionary.com. Also, I'm fairly sure that the definition of sport is not for entertainment. I mean, it could be, but many people play them professionally. There are also several other similar definitions that you can look at by scrolling down the list on this link: https://www.google.com... As Yos said, and I and many others have experienced, playing the games considered as Esports require incredible reflexes- pro gamers can even make as many as 400 moves on a keyboard per second, which is more than four times the average person. I may have been incorrect in my definition, but having good reflexes can certainly be counted as physical prowess. ESPN showcasing a gaming match further proves that it should be considered a sport. Esports teams are coached, like and pro athletic team would be, and some teams are even owned by people in the way football teams are. http://www.dailymail.co.uk... https://www.forbes.com... That's all for now, maybe we can debate this again? Thank you for this debate.	PRO	108
108	S49f41610-A375916e4	Are Esports real sports	Lets go, kid. I think that Esports should be considered real sports, as well as Major league gaming. Chess is considered a sport. Why shouldn't Esports be?	PRO	109
109	S6e6e5f05-A91e82839	Hitting a MLB fastball is the hardest thing to do in sports	Not only is hitting an MLB fastball not the hardest thing to do in sports, it isn't even the hardest pitch to hit in baseball. In a study done on 2009 pitchers. They showed who had the best pitches (looking at the individual pitches of the pitcher) and found that the top 10 pitches, not one of them is a fastball. So even the best fastball pitcher in the league couldn't make it to the top 10 (while the slider holds 3 of the top 5 spots). [1][2] Now that is a study going from pitcher to pitcher. But lets look at the actual pitches (on the whole, independent from individual pitchers). In a study of Fastball (FB), Changeup (CU), Curveball (CB) and Sliders (SL), looked at how often each pitch is thrown, how often it is hit, how often it is hit for a home run, and how often it is thrown based on the count. [3] The fastball is the most likely pitch to be hit for a home run, and the fastball is the least likely to be swung and missed, only 6% of fastballs are swung at and missed, 94% of the time, they are either hit, or just watched go by. Fastballs are also the most likely to be hit (38% of the time, be it fall, for a hit, or getting out, but contact is made), with curveballs being the lowest at 29%. [3] I do believe that this proves, without any question, that both fastballs in general are not the hardest pitch to hit (in fact one of the easiest) and that the best fastball is not harder to hit then the best slider or the best curve or even the best change up. [1] http://online.wsj.com... [2] http://mlb.mlb.com... [3] http://www.hardballtimes.com... I await PRO's further arguments.	CON	110
110	Se2ff8b36-Af8976ff7	Youth Sports is an excellent building block for children today.	I'll be honest, I thought you were referring to older children (teenagers basically) as you didn't specify the age. It is impossible for me to argue against younger children engaging in sports unless I invoke a ridiculous argument like physical or mental handicap. I propose that this debate be called a draw as neither of us clarified our positions clearly enough, but I can forfeit if required.	CON	111
111	Se2ff8b36-A89c2fcfb	Youth Sports is an excellent building block for children today.	I have to start by saying that the reason I picked this subject is because I have met several parents who think that youth sports are corrupt and politcal. For this reason they do not allow their children to participate in youth sports. My goal is to show the positive sides of youth sports that applies to any child. Youth sports today provides many positive things for children: Team work Leadership Physical Fitness The ability to set and accomplish goals The ability to work in a team is a quality needed in almost every adult job in the world. Leadership not just meaning being able to lead people but also being able to follow. Where following is not always looked upon as leadership, if a weaker person sees someone following a specific person then it is easier for that person to follow as well. Thus by follow a good leader they in turn learn to be a leader. If for nothing else sports are good for physical fitness. In this time where the obicity rate in children is sky high, sports is just the thing to keep children in shape. And then the ability to set and accomplish goals. Many people in this day and age set goals that they are not able to accomplish. Why is this? Because many people where never taught how to set reasonable goals. Sports is one way to teach children how to set attainable goals and then work to reach them. Another great thing that comes from sports is that it gives a parent a chance to give their child positive reinfocement. This is not to say that no negative effects will come from sports, but the negative effects can easily be avoided by making sure that coaches are positive role models and have the childrens best interest in mind.	PRO	112
112	Se2ff8b36-A9fa74559	Youth Sports is an excellent building block for children today.	Firstly, to be honest, I agree that sports are important. But to play devils advocate... Sports ostracizes... A large number of people who don't enjoy or don't feel confident engaging in sports. People who don't fit the natural stereotype of people who are sporty (you don't see many goth quarterbacks). It tends to encourage and support those with a strong personality and/or natural physical ability, which inherently discourages those that don't, and they are the ones that usually need it the most. It depends on the school, teacher and fellow students to a large extent, so I had to generalize.	CON	113
113	Sf888e5a8-A50c9c5ee	Video Games are Sports	After reading your argument, I conclude that it's incredibly solid. I concede that at some point, video games will be considered sports at the same level of competitive physical sports. At the moment, eSports is not widely regarded as a sport outside of the eSports community (I'd personally have no problem with it being accepted as a real sport, but that has no bearing on the argument), as the president of ESPN said that video games are a competition rather than a sport, and Colin Cowherd publicly voiced his disdain for competitive gaming at the professional level on his show, The Herd (although it may be worth noting that these men were born in the 1950s and 60s respectively). Thanks to pro for showing me the reasons why you think the way you do, you have officially swayed me. I concede.	CON	114
114	Sf888e5a8-A55a61640	Video Games are Sports	"It is a controversial topic that sparks feuds from both sides of the coin; are video games really sports? However, many fail to note a plethora of points and concepts that more than confirm the idea that video games sports. The definition of sports, although varying with different diction and colloquialism across many textbooks, is ""a game played either as recreation or competition."" The argument is not semantics. Just as you can hunt game for sport, you can play video games as a sport. Whether it is physically taxing or not is irrelevant - as an example, the game of chess is widely accepted as a sport, but the game is a battle of not physical, but mental stamina. Those who play the game are indeed ""athletes"" - just not physical athletes - these video game athletes are playing sports. Video games have been gradually becoming accepted as sports, making appearances on sports channels and news worldwide. The professional scene in what is now being referred to as ""eSports"" is no joke - the prize pools for games such as Dota 2 or Halo 5: Guardians have been large, from a wallet-pleasing two million USD to a bank-crushing twenty million USD. These prizes compete with what many professional baseball or basketball players can make in a year; to say that these eSports cannot qualify as ""true sports"" is ludicrous. All around the world, there are many arguing for or against the idea that video games are sports. Only one side is correct. Due to the nature of video games, their current professional standings, and the definition of what a sport really is, it is factual that video games are a sport. Information on eSports prize pools: http://www.esportsearnings.com... Information on physical sport salaries: https://en.wikipedia.org..."	PRO	115
115	Sf888e5a8-A781bfc9b	Video Games are Sports	"Thank you for the humble response. I have checked your sources, and the definition that you provided for ""sport"" is definitely there. However, you should also put your eyes on the other definitions which also fit the criteria of video games. A second note on this, too, is that textbook definitions are dynamic.. Even if a dictionary's first entry says ""physical,"" I'm sure that it is subject to change, because there are too many other factors telling us that eSports are definitely ""sports."" You say that prize pools don't contribute to the idea of eSports being physical sports. This was not my intention; I know that video games are not especially physical! However, the prize pool certainly attests to eSports being ""true sports,"" such as your example of chess, which I will address soon. The reason that the money involved backs up the idea that they are sports is because it provides an example of how competitive they have become. It shows us that they are skill-based games that are taken very seriously at a professional level; thus, they are ""sports."" You may disagree with me due to your beliefs on the meaning of ""sports,"" but it's at that point that it becomes semantics. You say that eSports appear on a separate category, and you are correct, as they are not physical sports. They are indeed a subcategory, but they are still sports, hence e""Sports."" They are shown on ESPN because they are sports - after all, you said it yourself; they are a sports news source. It's an example of how close society is coming to accepting them as full-fledged ""sports,"" not just a subcategory; it's all for very good reason. Your quote from the London Chess Conference is very interesting. However, I argue that video games are very similar. While not always as intense (it depends on the game and importance of the specific match in question), physical readiness is always a factor in mental capability, and video games is no different in how it is required. It's all physiology, and it is very important. You also say that chess has been recognized as a sport by the International Olympic Committee since 2000, but that is irrelevant to your point. One day, video games could receive the same recognition - it may sound far-fetched to you, but it is quite plausible in retrospect. To summarize; the textbook definition of sport is dynamic and biased towards previous beliefs (those beliefs being that video games are not a sport, which is why the physical part was clarified in the first place), the prize pool of eSports serves as an example to how competitive it really is, and video games do in fact also require some form of physical preparation and readiness."	PRO	116
116	S2ac397ba-A84e5f387	eSports should be recognized and respected as official sports	Before I begin this summary I would to say that it has been great debating with you and apologize for taking so long to reply, the holidays had caught me up. Now, on the main topic. eSports should very well be respected as a sport in my eyes and definitely in the eyes of every proclaimed professional athlete participating in these games. It is obvious that sports can be defined by not only Physical effort, but expert mental prowess (e.g. Poker), which is shown throughout many eSports such as League of Legends, Counter-Strike, and Starcraft. These players in the top of these sports lead the top of the 1% of players who even manage to make it to this level of play, putting in countless hours of practice to remain respected and good. With these points in mind, I say we respect these eSports as Sports.	PRO	117
117	S2ac397ba-A75a7a388	eSports should be recognized and respected as official sports	Thank you for being timely and never forfeiting. This is quite a hot topic to dig through. I would like to finish off by saying that esports should not be considered a sport because of all the reasons above. These include Differences between sport and competition The actual definition of sport, The lack of physical or real world communication So in conclusion, for all the athletes that have made there way to the top by hard work and physical conditions that believe sports should stay in the real world, I personally believe that sports should stay physical. My name is Brian N. Johnson, thank you for your time.	CON	118
118	S2ac397ba-Af4e24a28	eSports should be recognized and respected as official sports	"What is a sport? The topic is widely debated throughout the world. Is cheerleading or dancing or darts a sport? Where do we draw the line? When it comes to videogames it simply is not a sport. It is a competition. Sports are defined according to every other site besides yours as, An activity involving physical exertion and skill in which an individual or team competes against another or others for entertainment"" http://www.oxforddictionaries.com... https://www.google.ca... Although many sports are competitive a competition is not defined as a sport. ""an event or contest in which people compete"" .https://www.google.ca... Videogames or egames are just a competition the same as spelling bees, checkers, chess they are not considered sports. According to ESPN president he declares that egames are not a sport. Supporting me in my arguments. http://ca.ign.com... He gives similar reasons as the ones I chose. Saying,""It""s not a sport "" it""s a competition. Chess is a competition. Checkers is a competition,"" Preparation for such events doesn't make anything a sport. I have to prepare to go to school. Yet school is not a sport. I have to prepare my mind and body to be in a state of mind to write a strong argument yet arguing is not a sport. Just because you have a skill doesn't make it a sport for both physical effort and skill is required to make something a sport. For the reasons listed above I believe it is clear why egames are not considered a sport and should not be considered a sport. Thank you. I look forward to my opponents response."	CON	119
119	S2ac397ba-Af92415e0	eSports should be recognized and respected as official sports	"You do bring some interesting information to table, but I can bring some counter-arguments to your statements. You said eSports are a competition. This is true, and as you said many sports are also competitions in your third paragraph. By saying this we can say some activities can be Sports while still being a sport. I see eSports as the same way, and some others do too. I could argue Poker is a competition, but it is respected as a sport. ESPN even recognizes it as a sport and there is not much a physical aspect to it. Poker is a mental sport, you must be focused and smart, much like eSports. Going on with the topic of ESPN, and what the John Skipper said. He may say that eSports are not sports. He can have his opinions, but officially the U.S does recognize eSports as Sports, and Foreign players from places as far as Asia, Europe, and even Africa coming to the U.S for gaming tournaments can get Visas with the identifier, ""Professional Athlete""[1] For my last point this round I would like to bring Razer's eSports associate manager Drew Holt-Kentwell's words on this matter into it. He says,""According to Merriam Webster, a 'sport' is 'a contest or game in which people do certain physical activities according to a specific set of rules and compete against each other, eSports is a competition, absolutely. Moreover, gaming athletes have to train bodily and mentally to be competitive or they lose. eSports requires extraordinary coordination, hyper-fast reflex responses, teamwork, and physical and mental dexterity and endurance "" often for extended periods of time under the pressure of strictly enforced game rules."" He then goes on to say, ""The legitimacy of a sport really comes down to its cultural impact, adding that professional gamers are already recognized for work visa purposes for competitive events just like real-world athletes."" [2] If these players are being recognized on this level by governments, then why should they not be recognized by networks such as ESPN, and the people of the U.S. http://www.forbes.com...[1] http://www.polygon.com...["	PRO	120
120	S2ac397ba-A11529f2f	eSports should be recognized and respected as official sports	"Alright time to get down to work here. Your argument is now based on the fact that there are other less physical competitions that are considered sports however there is some problems with that. Should we start drawing the line on what a sport is? By definition there are already games that are considered sports that shouldn't be. Such as pokers, chess, and the only one important in this debate videogames. Let's examine virtual verses reality. Every sport that is a sport has interactions between two or more people. Someone you can touch and interact face to face with. Egames does not have such teamwork as hockey, basketball, Soccer or any other ""classic"" or real sports. Stressful situations does not make something a sport. If you can make a good comparison between a classic sport and egames we may have something. However all we have is people glued to monitors. If esports is going to be considered a sport all videogames will become a sport. Rough and tumble interactive skilled sports is what has been the sports since the beginning. From the stoneware when ancient hunters would hunt wooly mammoths, sports have been around since ancient times. It is not time to make a virtual reality where what I watch on TV is other people watching a screen. For the definition of sports and the difference between reality and virtual it is clear that now is not the time to confuse the two. http://mp1st.com..."	CON	121
121	S89f1fd16-A10b9c08a	The North Pole Players are the best sports team EVER	Put any team on that leaderboard and the North Pole Players will always come out on top. You just have to be a qualified sports leaderboard maker, which I'm afraid to say that Con isn't. The reason all of those teams are defunct or something is because the North Pole Players whooped the opposing side's sorry bottoms so hard that they simply could not continue in the same way. Con claims it's too cold to play volleyball and provides a source, but the source doesn't say anything about it being too cold to play volleyball. Plus, it's the North Pole so you can play sports like Iceberg punching and walrus throwing without too much bother in organizing it. There are stats, I will show you: TEAM NAME: The North Pole Players STRENGTH: 10/10 ATTACK: 10/10 DEFENCE: 10/10 SPECIAL ABILITIES: 10/10 OVERALL: 10/10 TEAM NAME: (Every other sports team in the world) STRENGTH: 0/10 ATTACK: 0/10 DEFENCE: 0/10 SPECIAL ABILITIES: 0/10 OVERALL: 0/10 I think I've proved once and for all that the North Pole Players are the best sports team ever. Thank you.	PRO	122
122	S89f1fd16-A11691bcf	The North Pole Players are the best sports team EVER	Thank you KingDebater for instigating this challenge. I will now post my opening arguments, and refute my opponent's opening arguments. My opponent lists 10 teams, and had the North Pole Players at the top. But if you look at the next 9 teams, all of them say that the team is defunct, or the team has not been formed yet. Thus, the North Pole Players do not have any valid competition, which means that they cannot be the best team without having competition to play. Also, the average temperature of the North Pole, is too cold to play volleyball, or any other outdoor sports, which therefore means they do not play every sport imaginable [1] Another reason is that there are no stats to show for the North Pole Players. Every sporting event in the world has stats. Without statistics to show how the North Pole Players have done in comparison to the other teams (which is none), we do not even know how the North Pole Players have fared in any games they have played. My opponent has not provided any reasons to show why the North Pole Players are the Best team. I eagerly await pro's round 2 argument. Thank you. [1] http://polardiscovery.whoi.edu...	CON	123
123	S50231541-A7cd76e73	Transwomen Should Be Eligible to Play Sports in the Women's League	"Happy to think with you today. For those that missed it my opponent has posted their R3 in the comments. I'd ask that no one votes conduct to me because of this alone. There's not a clear right answer because I have no way of convincing you 100% that my way of thinking about these matters is the ""right"" way to think of them. There is inherent unfairness in sports based on genetics. These differences are celebrated. However, We have distinguished different leagues based on sex because there is a large subset of males that will beat every female in a wide variety of physical contests. The problem we're having is that you see transwomen as women and females. We have not been able to fully transition anyone to the opposite biological sex they were born as yet. Until we can transition them fully, The arguments for separating sports by sex will apply to the argument against transwomen who enjoy biological male advantages competing against biological females as well. You call them transsexuals in the sense that they (some of them, Not all) are trying to transition to the opposite sex, But we both know this process is not yet complete. Our science is not advanced enough to do this. When studies can confirm that there are no inherent advantages for the average transwoman and the average biological female then we can say the competition is fair if those transwomen have undergone the procedures that the transwomen in said study had gone through. So your view is that they're trying to transition and they're mentally women. We both agree it seems so far that they still possess the same inherent advantages from their biological male status. The problem is you're allowing this advantage strictly because they are women, And you think the definition of 'fairness' in sports should be expanded to allow this. I disagree. The definition of fairness as it exists today would exclude biological males from competing against biological females regardless of how they are trying to transition. In fact, Not all transwomen do go through with the surgery or want to. Your argument for transsex only works for those who actually want to transition to females as well as just the social norms that apply to women. Not all of them wish for that. So no, I don't think there's a super compelling reason to value your side. I don't think there's a compelling enough reason to value my side to convince YOU that it is the correct one. However, I'm asking that you consider the feelings of the majority of biological females who have to compete against those with biological advantages that no biological female could compete with. Your argument that SOME transwomen won't win against SOME biological females isn't the issue. It's that those that DO fall into the percentage of biological males with genetic potential that outclass EVERY female will ALWAYS win. The biological females have no chance. This is why they were separated in the first place. It's one thing to be optimistic and tell females to try to raise themselves to their highest potential. It's another to ask from them the impossible. We don't put females into competitions where they are outclassed in every physical way and tell them to just try harder. You, In my opinion, Are being extremely insensitive to those biological females that are put into this situation. An extreme contradiction in your opinion seems to be that competitions aren't for ""winning. "" That any female to competes to win is wrong by definition shouldn't be competing in the first place. This is an opinion. One shared by relatively few. We all want to win. We all want to fight and achieve victory. If I created an AI and put it in a body that was 1-10% better than ANY biological male and programmed it to think it was male so it could be allowed to compete against men, That is not battling in any sort of fair sense. You're saying that biological females shouldn't want to compete to win, To just compete against themselves, Yet you're saying that transwomen should be allowed the chance to compete to win instead of just competing against themselves. This is a contradiction in your view. Why don't trans women just compete against themselves instead of forcing biological females to compete against unwinnable opponents? This isn't a point you can just waive away with ""I respect females and believe in them! "" We have math behind this. Serena Williams would stand no chance against many of the top 100 male tennis players. To repeat, Your position is insensitive to one group of people in an attempt to be sensitive to another group of people, The majority of which don't even agree with your position in the first place without surgery and hormones for extended periods of time, All of which has not been proven to get transwomen down to biological female levels. If winning isn't part of the competition you feel transwomen should value, Why not let them compete against biological men? Especially those who aren't doing the surgery and taking the hormones. It is a much more fair competition, And those who are taking surgery and hormones are only as disadvantaged as biological females are against trans women, If not a little less! If it is fairness we value, Transwomen should be competing against biological males. If competition is ONLY for improving onesself then let them compete against those who can give them a real run for their money and push them to their limits. If it is gender alone that we value, Then they should compete against women despite the inherent unfairness of it. I submit that I am more interested in fair competition than gendered competition. I don't accept that transwomen are females. This distinction I have made clear with my own definitions. I don't think that many in the trans community would even disagree with this if I explained my position with them. I'm all for the eventual full transition from male to female and hope it happens as soon as possible. I'm hoping for a lot more than that with eventual third full sexes et cetera. To say I need to ""prove"" I'm pro-trans by agreeing with you on a point that I doubt most trans people would fully agree with is irrational. Not every opinion expressed by trans people is correct. Not agreeing with those opinions they are incorrect on is not anti-trans. I don't have to prove myself in this fashion. To suggest such is at the least mildly insulting. If transwomen want to compete in the short term without stirring up waves until studies prove to society at large that they are not unfairly advantaged, They should seek to compete where they are at a disadvantage, Or against each other. If fairness truly doesn't matter to you and you don't think that the possibility of achieving victory is at least some motivation for biological females pushing to do their best and achieve their potential, Then I don't have a convincing argument that will change your mind. All I can say is that people do value that. I believe your opinion that victory and winning are not important is inaccurate. I think that making sex based leagues because of the biological advantages of men was a good move. I like seeing more people able to compete in leagues where they can win and feel great for doing so. Some people are born with physical impairments that will prevent them from ever becoming an elite athlete, Even if they love a certain sport more than anything. There are leagues they can join that allow them to compete at their level. There is no league that biological females will be able to join to allow themselves a chance at victory against the biologically advantaged transwomen if they are allowed to compete with no holds barred, As my opponent would wish. The suggestion of having a league that they could achieve victory in would be called anti-trans and those females would be looked down upon just because they wanted a chance to win. Until transwomen can trans fully to bio female and studies confirm this, This should not be. -Thoht"	CON	124
124	S50231541-A8c1b414	Transwomen Should Be Eligible to Play Sports in the Women's League	In case the title wasn't self-explanatory enough, this is a debate on whether or not transwomen should be eligible to play sports in the women's league. I will argue that transwomen should be eligible, While my opponent shall argue against this. Here's my argument. 1) Transwomen are still women. 1. To differentiate transwomen from ciswomen is to reduce women to a body part, When in reality, Women are more than just one part of their body. 2. Being born without certain human parts doesn't make you less of a person, Just as being born without certain female parts doesn't make you less of a woman. 2) Women come in all shapes and sizes. 1. One shouldn't have to have an hourglass figure to be considered a female, Nor should one have to have a lack of physicality. 2. Though transwomen are built different from ciswomen, Even ciswomen are built different from one another; no woman is built the same from head to toe. 3) Transwomen were born males: not athletes. 1. While the male body tends to be stronger than the female body, It's not guaranteed to be, Meaning that a ciswoman is capable of being stronger than a transwoman. 2. Fitness and nutrition play a bigger role in someone's capabilities than gender does. 4) Gender isn't black and white. 1. Contrary to popular belief, There are a dozen feminine characteristic traits, As opposed to just one. While both genders have some of them, Neither gender has all of them, Meaning that female attributes of which a ciswoman might be deprived of, A transwoman could actually have. 2. Which female attributes anoint someone a female is a matter of opinion, Rather than a fact, And to base rules off of opinions is not only prejudice but is unnecessary, Because the facts are there, And the fact is that no feminine characteristic trait is more feminine than any other (femininity is femininity). 5) There are pros and cons to everything. 1. While many athletes strive to be bigger and heavier, Others aspire to be smaller and lighter (such as gymnasts, Figure skaters, And horse riders), Causing a transwoman's inherent nature to be just as much of a disadvantage in the women's league as it is an advantage. 2. Rather than being more or less equipped, Transwomen are just differently equipped, As all women are, From each other. There's my argument. A big thank you to my opponent for agreeing to accept this challenge.	PRO	125
125	S50231541-A58ddf9fd	Transwomen Should Be Eligible to Play Sports in the Women's League	"Happy to think with you today, I'll address your points first then move to my own. 1) We don't disagree. Trans-women are women. 2) We don't disagree. Women come in many shapes in sizes. However, We disagree a bit. More on this later. 3) Transwomen were born males, Not athletes. 1. The male body is not just stronger than the female body. It is superior in various ways. Larger quantities of blood means oxygen can circulate better, For one. The statistic we should be looking at is that Male athletes tend to outperform female athletes by a consistent 10% in most categories. With that 10% in mind, Elite athletes tend to be the top. 1% of females or males respectively. However, Way more than the top. 1% of males can beat the top. 1% of females. There are a LOT more than. 1% of males that will be superior to those elite females in nearly every way. Females can win against any male in many cases. However, This doesn't mean the playing field is even. This is the whole reason we have separated sports based on biological sex. Because females would nearly all be eliminated from competition if they were forced to compete with the more than. 1% of males that have this advantage over them. That being said, Transgender people do not lose this biological advantage if their gender does not match their biological sex. This is why having them compete in female sports is not fair to the females. We are trying to include a small portion of the population and alienating a massive majority by doing this. Just because the top. 1% of the female elite athletes have a chance against males doesn't mean we put them into male sports. Just because there is a subset of females 3 standard deviations from the norm that can compete against some males doesn't mean we should allow people who are biologically male and share those advantages to compete against them. Even if this were true, We aren't just talking about elite athletes in this post. We're saying that ALL transwomen should be able to compete in female leagues. That means trans women will on average be 10% superior to females. Females will gradually, Particularly if trans persons increase as a percentage of the population, Take the place of all females in their leagues. This is literally biological men competing against females. If you are for this, You have to be for the annihilation of female leagues, And us having only one league for all persons. The types of transwomen who this actually effects will probably be more athletic than other transwomen on average. Females were born females, Not athletes as well. This is flawed logic. 2. Fitness and nutrition play a bigger role than someone's biological sex does. Gender is irrelevant to sports. Biological sex and genes make 100% of the difference between two athletes who train optimally. This includes fitness and nutrition. 4) We don't disagree. Gender is largely a social construct. This is not what is important to me in this debate. I am pro-trans. This debate is about biological superiority which transwomen, On average, Have over biological females. 5) ""There are pros and cons to everything"" 1. You could make arguments for the inclusion of transwomen in any league which biological sex does not lead to superiority. These are largely outliers however, And is not a concession of the debate on my part. In general men outperform men 10% in most cases. 2. Transwomen are differently equipped the same as biological men are differently equipped from biological females. Precisely the same. To argue that all transwomen should be allowed to compete in all female sports is to argue that all biological men are 'differently equipped' and should be able to compete in female sports. Not all transwomen can compete against all women, But neither can men! Your argument, To prove your point, Has to be for the annihilation of sex-based sports. ---My arguments. 1. Summary of my argument against Cloe Trans women are biologically male. They share the 10% superiority in most athletics that males enjoy. That they are women is something I do not question. They still have the 10% superiority biologically, And thus you cannot include them by default unless your position is that all biological males should be included in female sports as well. 2. Expanding The matter is more complicated than your initial arguments. Few in the trans community that I've spoken with and seen agree that transwomen should be able to compete in female sports. I have found no statistics on this though, Which is unfortunate. A significantly larger portion of the trans community, From what I can tell, Believes transwomen should be able to compete IF they have had sex reassignment surgery and have been on hormones for some period of time. The reasoning behind this is that while transwomen still have penises and testicles, The recommended healthy testosterone is the normal biological male range. When they have had these removed, They can take blockers to put it at the biological female range. Their estrogen levels can be taken to the normal female range prior to the surgery, But they will still have the same advantages as a biological male prior to this. 3. From where does the Biological Male advantage stem? The problem with letting trans women compete who have had reassignment surgery and estrogen for a number of years is this still does not eliminate the totality of the advantages biological male have over biological females. A study by Stephane Bermon and Pierre Yves Garnier shows a full 1/6th of world champ track and field biological male athletes were below or at the female range of testosterone, Yet still outperforming females. Another study shows that even after prolonged hormone treatment, Transwomen maintain more bone density and muscle than biological females. These studies go to show that hormone treatments alone do not close this large gap in performance. It's possible that over the course of decades of exposure to larger amounts of testosterone, These benefits don't simply vanish in a year or two of hormones equivalent to the opposite sex you were born as. Based on previously cited studies, It seems that more than testosterone goes into the 10% gap between bio males and females. 4. Different Views on Sports There are two differing camps of people when it comes to one specific issue in sports. Do we allow performance enhancing drugs or not? Currently in most leagues we try to be 'fair. ' The definition of fair in this case is that everyone competes with what their body naturally does, And what performance gains they can get from dieting or exercise. Drugs are prohibited largely. When it comes to 'fair' sports, Transwomen are allowed to control their levels of testosterone and estrogen. Biological females are not. This comes into play even more when transmen are concerned. They are literally using performing enhancing drugs. I've looked for examples of transmen winning athletic events against biological men. I can't find any myself. Why do you think there is such a large disparity in transwomen victories and transmen victories? To conclude, The short of this is that biology is complicated. We don't know specifically what needs to change to give transwomen an equal playing field. Transwomen regardless of hormone therapy or not share some of the inherent advantages that their biological male status has conferred to them. My opponent must make an argument that bio males and bio females should be competing against each other to say transwomen who don't go through therapy and reassignment should be able to compete against females. Post-reassignment and 2 years of therapy, They still have advantages. The same argument still applies. Females should be able to compete against whomever they wish. I don't mind if they want to compete against men or transwomen. They should simply not be forced to. Out of a desire to include a few, You alienate the many. May your thoughts be clear, -Thoht"	CON	126
126	S50231541-Ae42389d1	Transwomen Should Be Eligible to Play Sports in the Women's League	"Apparently, In round one, Autocorrect mistook my commas for periods and capitalized the first letter of every word following them. I'm sorry to anyone who found this glitch distracting. If it happens again, Please forgive me, As it is beyond my control. To my opponent, That was actually a well thought out argument. No one could argue with that, The fact that a lot of thought went into it. I'm not going to argue with you for the sake of arguing with you. I'll give credit where credit is due and give you credit for not sounding as absurd as I would imagine someone on your side of the debate to. Know that your argument is not going in one ear and out the other; I'm listening. If you can prove me wrong, By all means, Please do. I want to take this matter in the right direction, Whether that's in my direction or not. You did your research, Which I appreciate, And you provided me with information of which I didn't have prior, So shame on me and more power to you. While you've yet to convince me of your argument, You've further explained it, And I'll admit, I understand it a little better. Now that I know what your problem is, Allow me to assure you that it doesn't have to be a problem. ""The statistic we should be looking at is that Male athletes tend to outperform female athletes by a consistent 10% in most categories. "" 1. While most of the time, One cisfemale athlete is as good as the next, Every now and then, Few will be 10% better than the rest, And transwomen would simply be among those few; if we're allowing their superiority, I don't see why we can't allow that of a transwoman's. ""That means trans women will on average be 10% superior to females. "" 1. It shouldn't be a matter of whether transwomen are ""superior"" to ciswomen but whether transwomen are women themselves. If transwomen are women, Then they should be allowed to compete in the women's league by default. Even if transwomen are biologically 10% superior, Some cismen are genetically 10% superior to other cismen, But because they're still men, They're still eligible to compete in the men's league, Despite their genetic superiority, Just as transwomen should still be eligible to compete in the women's league, If they're still women, Which you admitted they are. It's women verses women, And if a transwoman is a woman, Then she's a women, Point blank; even if they win game after game, Athletes are allowed to have winning streaks. So long as the transwomen aren't performing at a level that ciswomen are medically advised not to keep up with, Their capabilities should only push ciswomen to work harder. ""Females can win against any male in many cases. However, This doesn't mean the playing field is even. "" 1. The playing ground isn't even, Nor is it supposed to be. Advantages are what differentiate the winner from the runner-ups. If no one had any advantages, There'd be no competition; everyone would run at the same speed and finish the race at the same time. ""This is the whole reason we have separated sports based on biological sex. Because females would nearly all be eliminated from competition if they were forced to compete with the more than. 1% of males that have this advantage over them. "" 1. We separate males from females because the average cisman is significantly stronger than the average ciswoman, But even if a ciswoman proved herself to be as strong as the average cisman in the men's league, We would have her remain in the women's league regardless, Simply because she's a woman, Just as we should place transwomen in the women's league, Simply because they're women, Also. 2. Transwomen would not outnumber ciswoman; there's not that many of them in general, Let alone pursuing the sports industry. This is why transwomen can't compete among themselves; the competition would be scarce. If transwomen are to populate and outnumber ciswomen over time, Then I agree that they could start their own league and compete among themselves, But until then, I see nothing wrong with sharing. 3. Just as biological sex contributes to one's performance, So does race. Because African-American men have been said to have higher bone mass density, They're thought to accumulate greater muscle mass. Since 77% of NBA players (according to ESPN) are African-American, It could be said that they're dominating the men's basketball league in the same way you fear transwomen will dominate the women's league, Meaning that, Unless you're racist and think we need to exclude African-American men, You're contradicting yourself in saying we need to exclude transwomen. ""The types of transwomen who this actually effects will probably be more athletic than other transwomen on average. "" 1. While average transwomen are stronger than average ciswomen, They're not inherently stronger than athletic ciswomen, Meaning that if a transwomen is dominating the women's league, It's because of her athleticism, Rather than her biological disposition, Which wouldn't stand a chance against the physicality of a pro athlete, Even if a ciswoman. ""Biological sex and genes make 100% of the difference between two athletes who train optimally. "" 1. If both (biological sex and genes) make 100% of a difference, Then disqualifying one and not the other is a contradiction of which can only be rationalized by either accepting both or accepting neither. 2. First, You say that no one should have biological/genetic advantages, And then you say, Because everyone is training optimally, That that's all anyone has to rely on, Which is another way of saying no one should have the only thing anyone has. ""Your argument, To prove your point, Has to be for the annihilation of sex-based sports. "" 1. Your argument, To prove your point, Has to be for the annihilation of diversity in sports. 2. You can't allow certain types of women to complete in the women's league without being prejudice against those of whom you're excluding. ""Do we allow performance enhancing drugs or not? "" 1. No, Because people would overdose trying to one-up each other. ""Drugs are prohibited largely. "" 1. More so because athletes would overdose on them than because it'd give them an unfair advantage. Even pro wrestlers in the sports entertainment industry aren't allowed to take drugs, And drugs wouldn't change their performance because it's predetermined, But because they're dangerous, They're prohibited. 2. Water or any form of hydration improves an athlete's performance more than anything, But because everyone has access to fluid, We don't see it as being an advantage, But if drugs were safe, Everyone would have access to them, As well, And then we wouldn't see them as being an advantage, Either. ""Currently in most leagues we try to be 'fair. ' The definition of fair in this case is that everyone competes with what their body naturally does, "" 1. If this makes sense to you, Then, By your logic, Having transwomen compete in the women's league is only fair, Because they're women (as you agreed) who are simply competing 'with what their body naturally does. ' ""When it comes to 'fair' sports, Transwomen are allowed to control their levels of testosterone and estrogen. Biological females are not. "" 1. They're only allowed to lessen their level of testosterone. ""This comes into play even more when transmen are concerned. They are literally using performing enhancing drugs. "" 1. They're using prescribed drugs? This is like accusing an athlete with asthma of cheating for opening their airways and allowing oxygen to flow freely in and out of the lungs with the use of an inhaler. If they're deprived of oxygen, We have to provide them with some, Just as we have to provide testosterone to transmen because they're deprived of that. ""Why do you think there is such a large disparity in transwomen victories and transmen victories? "" 1. I'm not arguing whether transwomen have an advantage but whether it's okay that they have an advantage, And according to your definition of ""fair, "" it should be. There's my second argument. Here's to round two."	PRO	127
127	S9992d875-A8f773448	High School Varsity Sports should be eliminated	Varsity sports provide an environment that parents and other people trust. Students can be role models if tehy can do well in the sports. PS HI james and alan. No help given to u guys lol.	CON	128
128	S9992d875-A8be2d580	High School Varsity Sports should be eliminated	I do not appreciate Con's lack of seriousness in this debate and would like to make my final statements. My opponent has not refuted any of my points, nor has he provided any support or examples for his arguments. He used no references to support his points, and only used vague statements to explain his reasoning. Also, my opponent started this biased argument and took the side of Con, which is inherently the side that is favored. I feel that taking up a challenge is a part of a good debater, so took this debate, hoping for a challenge, but what my opponent has set up is nothing more than a high school athlete, trying to be right about high school sports. As weak as this debate was, I tried my best to convince you, the voters, that my opponents arguments were poorly constructed and supported. I have shown that 1) not every varsity sport promotes teamwork and cooperation, 2) of those sports that do promote teamwork and cooperation, they do not do so at a higher level than travel teams. I have also shown that 3) although many sports athletes did participate in high school varsity sports, only a very small percent of varsity athletes make it into professional sports. This means that high school varsity sports do not help all athletes, and that only a very select few who have natural talent and work hard by training and practicing have a chance of making it into the professional sport of their liking. It is not based on whether or not they played varsity sport in high school. 4) Also, if high school sports were eliminated there would still be plenty of opportunities (such as travel teams and city teams) for students in high school to participate in the sport of their choosing, to help develop their skills for the collegiate level or professional levels. Therefore, varsity sports are not necessary to exist in a high school parameter. Thank you all for your time, and I hope that just because Con has set up what seems to be a trap, you will honor my efforts to make a good debate out of something that normally wouldn't be debated, even though the integrity of the website was checked by my opponent even creating this debate. I am new to this website and hope that it remains a place for intelligent people to discuss important and controversial topics, and not a place where debaters friends will blindly vote for their friends instead of the person who had better conduct and reasoning in his or her debates.	PRO	129
129	S9992d875-A256a1552	High School Varsity Sports should be eliminated	My opponent mentions that only a very small fraction of people on varsity teams actually pursue athletics in their life. It may be a small percentage, but they are still people nonetheless. By eliminating high school varsity sports we are denying this group of people the chance to even participate in a more competitive environment with other people of similar skill levels. Why is it that we should eliminate this environment where everyone benefits and improves?	CON	130
130	S9992d875-Aa547b4a3	High School Varsity Sports should be eliminated	"My opponent has shown that he does not disagree in what I have said about the small fraction of people who played high school sports who play professional sports. However, my opponent brings up a new point that I will need to address. This point is that ""by eliminating high school varsity sports, we are denying this group of people (the less than 1% of people who make professional sports leagues) the chance to even participate in a more competitive environment with other people of similar skill levels."" As I stated earlier, there are other leagues outside of the high school varsity teams that compete at high school varsity levels. Travel teams, and public city leagues offer very competitive leagues and can lead a player to gain the skills and fundamentals necessary to play in the professional sport of their choosing. Of course, it is up to the individual player whether or not he will practice or be disciplined out side of the sport. Which brings me to my next point. I feel that personal discipline, training, and practice outside of the games and practices that varsity sports offer, make each athlete talented enough to enter their professional sport. Suppose a player decides not to play in high school, but practices at home and decides to go out for his college team, in order to further pursue a professional career. High school is not a necessary component in making a professional player. A small point that I would like to make is the story of Michael Jordan's high school career. ""Jordan loved sports but failed to make his high school basketball team as a sophomore. He continued to practice and made the team the next year."" (1) A player with the natural talent and love for the game can still drive himself to a professional career outside the parameters of a varsity sport. I have shown that high school varsity sports are not necessary for entry into the field of professional sports, that most high school players do not make it to a professional level, and that not all varsity sports promote teamwork and cooperation as stated in my opponents opening argument. Now to answer the big question: Should we eliminate all varsity sports? I feel that this is a loaded question, because high school sports don't have any outright negative effects on kids. It contains sportsmanship, competition, and builds athleticism in students. Although I have shown that it is unnecessary under the contexts of Con's argument, I have to address ""why"" we should eliminate varsity sports. As Pro, I have to say that we could offer better alternatives than what varsity sports offer to kids of the same age. I will make a few small points here: A) Not all athletes attend high school. For the athletes that do attend high school, they do not get the chance to play those kids who did not attend high school. Therefore, we should replace varsity sports with a league that everyone can try out for in the city, and offer different levels of competition for different caliber athletes. B) Varsity sports generally entail more spending, to pay for the coaches, assistant coaches, equipment, jerseys and so on. This is often paid for by asking for handouts, fundraisers, and donations by alumni of the school. C) Families who are involved in select teams or travel teams do spend a great deal of time together. The result is often closer bonds between family members. The higher level of competition means that the skills of the athletes also improve. For talented young athletes, participation in a select team can be a stepping stone to a spot on a college team or even a pro tryout. (2) D) Travel teams often get a wider range of talented teams from other divisions because they are not restricted to the district or the other local high school teams. (1) http://www.notablebiographies.com... (2) http://grandparents.about.com..."	PRO	131
131	S9992d875-A3bd485a8	High School Varsity Sports should be eliminated	High school varsity sports promote teamwork and cooperation at a higher level than regular sports. Most professional athletes in the world come from a varsity team at some point. Are we to deny them this chance?	CON	132
132	S26f1a2c3-A366165ec	Destroying the pleasure of watching certain sports	In today’s society, we have reached a point where a significant majority of the population is extremely sensitive towards domestic violence of any form, but particularly coming from a man directed towards a woman. Unfortunately, a wide variety of extremely popular sports are to a certain degree very violent such as: boxing, kickboxing, rugby, MMA or American football. Certain matches between a male and a female, no matter the winner will, cause a huge amount of visual discontent among viewers as no one wants to see a man knocking unconscious a woman with an uppercut. This would send a terrible message about violence against women and would be extremely unpopular and subject to large numbers of complaints. Subjecting women to such violence in these sports, even if the women in question puts up a good fight, will as a result of the sensitivity of many towards this kind of violence decrease the popularity and thrill of these otherwise extremely exciting sports. 	PRO	133
133	S26f1a2c3-Ac6fbebb2	Destroying the pleasure of watching certain sports	Firstly, passionate viewers of these violent sports are not watching them only for seeing blood and broken noses, but for the technical abilities and the strategic tactics in these sports. As a result, they tend to focus more on the speed and precision of one’s uppercut than rather on the effects it has on the opponent’s body, thus they will be able to ignore the violence towards women, as they currently do towards men. Secondly, if indeed there is a part of the population who watches violent sports but is averse to watching if there is violence involving women, then they should feel nothing but excitement when a woman will win a boxing match for example against a man, overcoming this irrational stereotype. This is because a lot of this hatred against violence against women even in a competitive situation is based on the idea that the woman is both powerless in front of the man and not willing to fight him; essentially a view that women should be subservient. Obviously, neither of these points stands when talking about professional sporting competitions. 	CON	134
134	S6b1404b6-Aa590de3f	The hardest thing to do in sports is to hit a baseball	And again... disappointing.	CON	135
135	S6b1404b6-A96ff0cc3	The hardest thing to do in sports is to hit a baseball	Really? He has posted no argument at all - I win by default.	CON	136
136	S6b1404b6-A6129cab5	The hardest thing to do in sports is to hit a baseball	I will let con go first	PRO	137
137	S6b1404b6-A1b4c1cdb	The hardest thing to do in sports is to hit a baseball	"Pro has yet to put forth an argument... sad day. Oh and - ""uh I dont foreit, just to let you know"" - dan1 in the comments field. Meh."	CON	138
138	S3c6a4e0b-A4ba5c877	Baseball is America's past time when it comes to sports.	You said past time was a time in history and not present day...your talking present day. I'm talking past. In my eyes, case closed.	PRO	139
139	S3c6a4e0b-A9e8f418f	Baseball is America's past time when it comes to sports.	No response? Therefore baseball is America past time.	PRO	140
140	S6e6e5f05-A4ab1e373	Hitting a MLB fastball is the hardest thing to do in sports	"ZAP! In less time than it takes you to ready that word Randy Johnsons famous 100Mph+ fastball would be out of his hand and into the catchers mitt. ZAP! A baseball thrown at 100Mph thrown by ""The Big Unit"" reaches home plate in less than 2/10 of a second. Thats half the time that it takes you to blink your eye. A baseball is 9 1/4 inches round, weighs about 5 ounces and half the time is the same colour as the pitchers jersey. On average there are only 750 peoeple in this world at any given time who are Paid to be able to come close to hitting this monstrous pitch and out of those 750 only a handful that can hit it 1/10 times squarley.(750 being the maximum numbers of players in the MLB before September where that number becomes 1200 due to the expanding rosters) These are the men then make their careers playing the game. No one is better than the players in the MLB and not even they can hit it more than once or twice out of ten times. If not even the Proffesionals can do it then why could anyone else even dream of it?"	PRO	141
141	S6e6e5f05-A3bb90c9c	Hitting a MLB fastball is the hardest thing to do in sports	I will extend my arguments and I hope that what prevented my opponent from being able to post in the last round in not serious, nor long-term.	CON	142
142	S6e6e5f05-A11bceede	Hitting a MLB fastball is the hardest thing to do in sports	I extend my arguments one more time and let it close that way.	CON	143
143	S6e6e5f05-A4f832756	Hitting a MLB fastball is the hardest thing to do in sports	Since you are going Pro, I will await your argument and your evidence.	CON	144
144	Se2ff8b36-A5ed2b0e4	Youth Sports is an excellent building block for children today.	That is fine we can call a draw. sorry for the misunderstanding and thank you for the opportunity. kg	PRO	145
145	Se2ff8b36-Ac890b0dd	Youth Sports is an excellent building block for children today.	A draw it is then, don't know how that works exactly but I assume I have to comment in the final round.	CON	146
146	Sf888e5a8-A94631007	Video Games are Sports	Thank you for extending my knowledge on this topic.	CON	147
147	Sf888e5a8-A75f59be8	Video Games are Sports	Perhaps we will go against each other again over a different topic in the future!	PRO	148
148	S2ac397ba-A328e2712	eSports should be recognized and respected as official sports	R1- Accept R2- Arguments R3- Rebuttal R4- Summary (No new points) I will be arguing for eSports to be recognized as a sport to avoid any confusion. Good Luck!	PRO	149
149	S2ac397ba-Aa011e2ee	eSports should be recognized and respected as official sports	Sounds like a beastly idea. I am interested on why you think this. I am prepared to combat your arguments Therefore I accept.	CON	150
150	S89f1fd16-A298a813b	The North Pole Players are the best sports team EVER	Thank you, Pro for your argument. Pro says there is no competition left, because the North Pole Players defeated them so badly that they could not continue. But how can a team get beaten so badly they are eaten, or defeat a team that hasn't even been created yet? Also, by saying a team has only one player, pro must mean that that team is ineligible. Con says that the source I provided does not show that it is too cold to play volleyball. But it does show that temperatures are very cold, and that they are as low as -32 degress, and since volleyball is a sport played in the summer, then it is too cold to play volleyball, which also means that the North Pole Players do not play every sport. Also, the stats pro provided tie to the first part of my argument. Teams that do not exist, or hav been eaten cannot have statistics. Pro has not proved that that the North Pole Players are the best team. Thank you.	CON	151
