	id	conclusion	premises	stance	rank
0	Se95c9f90-Aff7b4d4e	U.S. presidential primaries should be held on the same day in every state.	"Argument 1: Underfunded Campaigns of Small Candidates A national primary would give a huge advantage to better-known, better-funded candidates since only they would be able to finance the expensive advertising and large campaign operation needed to run a national ""get out the vote"" effort in all states. Lesser-known candidates without extensive campaign operations would not have an opportunity to reach out to voters in retail-style fashion and build support. Moreover, densely populated states with higher delegate counts would become the dominant focus of the campaigns and the media. In addition, political parties would have little control over the selection of their eventual nominee, and state party leaders would no longer have the flexibility to set their primary or caucus dates according to state-specific considerations, such as redistricting issues, state holidays, or other state and local elections. In 2008, at least 24 states held a primary on February 5, resulting in what was essentially a de facto national primary. Super Tuesday became Tsunami Tuesday. The situation was so bad for overwhelmed campaigns, party leaders, and election officials that the two parties worked together to ensure their rules for 2012 would help avoid a repeat."	CON	1
1	Sfcff81a7-Abb2f685d	Polling stations during Elections should be conducted over a longer period than a single day	"This is my first debate, so forgive me if I""m not exactly sure how it works. Here is my best case for single day polling: I submit that voting should be on one day only and as a secondary statement submit that the day could be moved to Saturday, if needed. No absentee mail in ballots should be allowed either. 1. Internet access is widespread in America (about 75% at home according to US census) that people who cannot make it to a polling location on a specific day can still vote. People who do not have access to the Internet certainly have reasonable means to find access (friend, library, school, work). Anyone who claims they absolutely cannot get to the Internet for any reason probably means they did not get to a connection because they did not value the vote. http://www.census.gov... 2. A single day vote may actually increase voter turnout. If the day is made special like Super Bowl Sunday, perhaps turnout will increase over the current apathetic levels. Last year, television ratings for the Super Bowl were about twice as high as the rounds that led up to the single day game. The reason is that it was made special, the weeks preceding the game lead up to the Super Bowl, and it was limited time frame. Those factors bring in the casual fan. On an anecdotal level, ask people next year after the game who did not watch to provide you a reason. My educated guess would be they did not watch because sports does not interest them, not because they could not find a television or device to watch it on. http://www.huffingtonpost.com... http://www.usatoday.com... 3. Inconvenience is not the major reason people don""t vote. As it is now, most states have absentee ballots that allow citizens to mail in their ballots over the course of weeks in some cases. Yet, voter turnout is still low. With the option of mailing in a ballot or showing up at the polls, participation is not low because people cannot get to a physical location on a Tuesday, it is low because the non-voters don""t care to vote for a variety of reasons. Some major reasons are: people feel like the government has for whatever reason let them down, they don""t follow politics so they don""t care to vote and the Electoral College technically elects the president so why bother? 4. I would be in favor of moving the single day from Tuesday to Saturday. Since more people work on weekdays than weekends, the Saturday date could increase voter turnout as well as provide opportunities for local celebrations and parades. If an election day were ever to bring in the casual voter like Super Bowl Sunday brings in the casual sports fan, the aforementioned civic celebrations might be the only avenue. 5. I will admit that computers can be hacked and online voting on a single day could open the process up for fraud. However, I would submit that just because a problem exists does not mean the activity should always be avoided. When cars became faster, engineers designed seat belts, they didn""t avoid driving over 20 miles per hour. Election fraud is rampant now anyway (will the word Florida suffice?). Also, online identity theft occurs but people still shop online and go on social media sites, they just need to be more careful. Since we won""t be eliminating all online activity just because it can be dangerous, why would we avoid online voting?"	CON	2
2	Sfcff81a7-Af755c90e	Polling stations during Elections should be conducted over a longer period than a single day	I often wonder if the single day voting is meant to curb voter fraud. No I don't think so. I think its discrimination against the poor and those that have to work 2 or 3 jobs to survive and feed their family. Suggestion 1 to improve voting: I think that the first time people register to vote (age 18 or above) they should be required to give a fingerprint, than at least there would be a record to identify an individual without having to require a photo ID. I don't see how a fingerprint would be invasion of privacy and it would also be free. You only have to prove who you are once with a birth certificate or other suffiecient form of ID (barring any scaring on your fingers). If this database could be used solely for elections and not accessible to law enforcement (of course could we trust them?) You'd only know a person's finger pad pattern, not what they look like and people would not have to have a photo ID if they didn't want to. Then, you could take your time to vote. Voting at your own convenience. Currently its just a tv spectacle with winners being declared often before even 50% of the vote is in for districts and states. Its not as if the switch from incumbent to the next elected official is happening that next day. Usually its like 3 months till the handover. Pretty much everything must kowtow to the tv networks. Too much money for tv. Sports are slaves to tv as well. For those that want national ID cards or required photo IDs YET they want total privacy and no records to match who voted for who, you can't have both. Suggestion #2: Better yet, align voting and taxes, then if you want to vote you have to pay your taxes (which should already be the case, even if you owe nothing or expect a refund) No taxes, no vote. Citizens benefit from services and infrastructure provided by taxes and it is their duty to pay them, voting should also be a duty of a citizen. EVEN putting the voting date on Saturday is still going to be impossible for some people. There aren't absentee ballots everywhere. Why not go further and make Voting Day a national holiday? Say President's Day? or Veteran's Day? All non-essential businesses are closed and all essential ones required to only have half day. We have holidays for really stupid crap (some just commercial holidays really), but we should celebrate voting. Representation is what we revolted from England for Still, having enough time to vote over the period of time of a week, a few weeks, or some agreed upon length of time, would be best and not have any more problems than we already have. At least then there could be no excuse for not voting. As of now many people have an excuse and some a legitimate complaint Also, voter intimidation at a polling station would take a lot more effort if it had to be manned for longer than a single day and hopefully happen less	PRO	3
3	Sfcff81a7-A27136114	Polling stations during Elections should be conducted over a longer period than a single day	"""I often wonder if the single day voting is meant to curb voter fraud. No I don't think so. I think its discrimination against the poor"". Response: with all the avenues available on a single day vote (Internet at library, shelters, could provide other government locations) voting would not only be available to all Americans but it could be convenient. 2. ""...Those that have to work 2 or 3 jobs to survive and feed their family. Response: currently all states have a form of absentee voting (vote via mail, early, etc...). Here is a link to every state""s absentee voting policy: http://www.ncsl.org.... Additionally, if the single day voting were a national holiday, that modification would eliminate work issues. Either way, every state in the country currently allows citizens to provide their work excuse and vote early. 3. ""Suggestion 1 to improve voting: I think that the first time people register to vote (age 18 or above) they should be required to give a fingerprint, than at least there would be a record to identify an individual without having to require a photo ID. I don't see how a fingerprint would be invasion of privacy and it would also be free. You only have to prove who you are once with a birth certificate or other suffiecient form of ID (barring any scaring on your fingers). If this database could be used solely for elections and not accessible to law enforcement (of course could we trust them?) You'd only know a person's finger pad pattern, not what they look like and people would not have to have a photo ID if they didn't want to."" Response: with so much difficulty passing voter ID policies, logging fingerprints would prove implausible for two reasons. First, one argument against voter ID is that some have difficulty finding their birth certificate or other forms of ID. Second, many feel it is an invasion of their privacy and denies them their right to vote. Although I support voter ID laws, the fingerprint policy would be a step up in both categories. 4. ""Then, you could take your time to vote. Voting at your own convenience. Currently its just a tv spectacle with winners being declared often before even 50% of the vote is in for districts and states. Its not as if the switch from incumbent to the next elected official is happening that next day. Usually its like 3 months till the handover. Pretty much everything must kowtow to the tv networks. Too much money for tv. Sports are slaves to tv as well."" Response: if the vote were done over a period of weeks, the spectacle and drama would be dragged out and exacerbated even more than it is now. For example, television shows such as The Bachelorette rely on this type of drama to generate ratings. Presidential elections that only occur once every four years would play right into this type of sensationalism. Additionally, the voting could not occur during the transition period between November and January. During this time, the president-elect needs to conduct business related to a smooth transition between leaders. Therefore, the vote needs to be finalized by early November, it cannot drag on for months. Although the Electoral College process does not officially elect the president until much later, there has never been a President-elect who was not officially elected by the Electoral College. 5. ""For those that want national ID cards or required photo IDs YET they want total privacy and no records to match who voted for who, you can't have both."" Response: displaying an ID in order to vote but maintaining total privacy on the actual person the voter selected is completely possible. The ID provides the voter the ballot, the voter then votes privately. 6. ""Suggestion #2: Better yet, align voting and taxes then if you want to vote you have to pay your taxes (which should already be the case, even if you owe nothing or expect a refund) No taxes, no vote. Citizens benefit from services and infrastructure provided by taxes and it is their duty to pay them, voting should also be a duty of a citizen.(I agree both are duties, but like I argued in Round 1, apathy is the problem)"" Response: The IRS is currently backlogged as it is (see link below), so involving them in the voting process would provide an even more significant delay. Additionally, the IRS experiences tax evasion fraud as well as their own surveillance scandals (see link below), so convincing Americans to provide fingerprints would be next to impossible. Lastly, you mentioned single day voting being a burden on the poor. Surely attaching a financial requirement to the vote (albeit a legally assessed tax) could provide a disincentive to conduct both actions (paying taxes and voting) and could also create discrimination similar to post-Civil War poll taxes used to deny African Americans their right to vote. It also could provide the undue burden on the poor that you refer to at the start of your argument. IRS backlog link: http://www.cchgroup.com... IRS scandal link: http://news.investors.com... 7. ""EVEN putting the voting date on Saturday is still going to be impossible for some people. There aren't absentee ballots everywhere. Why not go further and make Voting Day a national holiday? Say President's Day? or Veteran's Day? All non-essential businesses are closed and all essential ones required to only have half day. We have holidays for really stupid crap (some just commercial holidays really), but we should celebrate voting. Representation is what we revolted from England for"" Response: every state has a policy to allow citizens to vote on a day that is not the national voting day: http://www.ncsl.org.... I think our common ground is, however, to make voting day a national holiday. 8. ""Still, having enough time to vote over the period of time of a week, a few weeks, or some agreed upon length of time, would be best and not have any more problems than we already have. At least then there could be no excuse for not voting. As of now many people have an excuse and some a legitimate complaint Also, voter intimidation at a polling station would take a lot more effort if it had to be manned for longer than a single day and hopefully happen less"" Response: As I stated in Round 1, the reasons people provide currently are many times just excuses since there are plenty of avenues for citizens to vote under our current system. It would also be easier for people to intimidate voters since the government would have a tough time manning polling locations for weeks or months instead of for just one day. I had fun with my first debate, thanks for posting, this is a great topic."	CON	4
4	Sfcff81a7-A8f514b71	Polling stations during Elections should be conducted over a longer period than a single day	There are a number of inconveniences when it comes to voting in American elections, but foremost it is getting to the polling station on the particular day. In our computerized society I see no reason for there to be single election days besides for the drama it creates and TV dollars it generates. I propose that polling during elections be at least a week's worth of time A few assumptions to be kept in mind 1. all results will be held till the end of polling 2. systems in place to ensure no re-voting or fraudulent voting Round 1 Opening statements Round 2 rebuttals to Round 1 Round 3 closing arguments	PRO	5
5	Se95c9f90-A79892a15	U.S. presidential primaries should be held on the same day in every state.	Unfortunately, my opponent never provided us with any original arguments, so I am without anything to refute. Having said that, I am still able to make my own argument: Argument: Having the primaries in every state is something we should employ. We should do this because it would increase voter turnout. As it stands now, as it becomes obvious as to whom is going to win each party's respective nomination, people in states that vote later will be less likely to vote because they see it as a waste of time. On the other hand, if each state were to vote on the same day, the future of the nomination would be more in doubt, making it more likely for turnout being higher. Higher turnout ensures that our system of government remains strong, keeping us out of chaos.	PRO	6
6	S6937d4fe-A1ff2327d	Discrimination on the basis of religious beliefs should be legal in the workplace	"With many thanks to slobodow for accepting this debate, I should acknowledge that my story in the opening round was indeed ""highly unlikely"" but was so deliberately in order to exaggerate the perfectly valid point that people of faith enjoy special privileges over other employees in the workplace. For example, British Airways' rules used to state that employees' ""jewellery must be worn out of sight, beneath a uniform"" but now certain members of staff are allowed to wear jewellery openly. But who are these specially privileged workers? The senior management? Employees with long-service records? Staff that have received outstanding achievement awards? No, this extra benefit is only extended to workers with religious beliefs - anyone else openly wearing jewellery could be sacked on the spot. (1) Now let's say you were living in America prior to the last election and you turned up for work wearing a pro-Obama peace t-shirt like this one: http://shop.cafepress.com... Your boss might very well ask you not to wear it for fear of upsetting Republican customers, right? Now let's say you turned up for work wearing an anti-Obama Christian t-shirt like this one: http://www.christianshirts.net... Your boss might like to ask you not to wear it for fear of upsetting Democrat customers but he couldn't because it symbolises your faith and you are, therefore, protected by law. Okay, now let's say you are offered a job as a bank teller and the manager tells you that your hours of work are 9.30 a.m. to 4.00 p.m. Mondays to Fridays and 9.30 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. on Saturdays. Imagine you are a political activist and your committee meetings are held on Saturday mornings and you explain to the bank manager that you are unable to work on Saturday mornings for that reason but he replies that the hours of work apply to all tellers and that they form part of the contract of employment. What are you going to do? Either give up your political activities or turn down the job, right? Not so if Saturday happens to be the Sabbath in your chosen religion though. You can turn round to your future boss and tell him that you will take the job but he cannot enforce the terms of the contract of employment upon you and make you work Saturdays because contract law is subordinate to national legislation and that if he attempts to either refuse to employ you or penalise you for not working Saturdays you will drag him and the bank through the courts. Now that's not just or equitable, is it? In response to my opponent's final point: ""Discrimination is not disallowing holidays it is allowing people to insult people of separate religions due to their religious beliefs."" Holidays are not the real issue here as, while an employer is obliged to grant a religious employee special days off work in respect of their faith, they normally come out of their annual leave entitlement, which is a fairly reasonable comprimise. However, when it comes to slurs, employees are insulted at work for all sorts of reasons - it could be due to their appearance, their personal habits, their political ideals or their religious beliefs. In most cases these matters are dealt with by the way of internal disciplinary procedures but in the case of religious insults the Company can be held vicariously liable for their employees' ill-considered remarks in a court of law and suffer substantial financial losses as a consequence. In the final analysis, someone's life-long, deeply-held political beliefs cannot, and should not, be considered legally less valid than another person's religious beliefs and employers and non-religious co-workers should not be penalised as a result of this legislative assumption. Thank you. (1)http://www.thisislondon.co.uk..."	PRO	7
7	S419ec682-A2de81daf	May/June Beginners Debate Tournament: Voting should be mandatory	"I) MV undermines liberty and democracy Restrictions on liberty should be limited to things that infringe/undermine the rights of others. The Constitution of the United States grants specific powers to the federal government and The Bill of Rights therein contains certain rights that the federal government is obligated to defend. The first amendment states ""Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press"". (1) By forcing someone to voice something they would not otherwise voice, we would be abridging their freedom of speech. This also forces individuals to, at times, violate their conscience. In the 2016 presidential election, 1 in 4 people disliked both major party candidates. (2) Many of these voted 3rd party but many also felt that no presidential candidate was worthy of their vote. In this type of situation it is wrong to force someone to exercise their democratic voice to support a candidate they do not approve of. II) MV doesn't incentivise political learning Forcing people to make a decision is not equivalent to ensuring they make that decision intelligently. Many people choose not to educate themselves on political matters because they view such things as unimportant to them or uninteresting and an effective way to address this would be to address the root cause. Rather than compelling people to draw political conclusions (this provides no incentive for actual political learning) we should be educating them on how specific laws will affect their lives. There are many ways to do this and doing so would increase voter turnout and would do so voluntarily. The other issue that mandatory voting would exacerbate is that of political misinformation which is extremely high. Nearly 1 in 3 Americans believe President Obama is a Muslim. (3) This is one example of the alarmingly inaccurate ""news"" being propagated on social media platforms as well as seemingly credible media sources. This effect manifests itself clearly as only 40% of the American public trust of media to report ""the news fully, accurately, and fairly"". (4) Those who are most vulnerable to misinformation and biased reporting are those who study politics least thoroughly which would undoubtedly be those who currently pay the least attention. Mandatory voting undermines the integrity of our elections by forcing the politically ignorant to vote on things that they don't know much about. III) MV doesn't lead to better representation for those most affected We should not force individuals to vote for things that they feel don't affect them. Allow me to illustrate this point with a a personal example. In my city, a special election was held that proposed a couple measures that I felt did not apply to me in the slightest. For instance, there was a measure that would increase a city tax on gas in order to provide additional funds to the school system. I did not grow up in this city and I will be leaving it in a few months. I have no investment in their school system and the tax would barely affect me because I usually buy gas on my commute to a nearby town. I believe in the importance of voting (and did so in my county, state, and general elections) but when the law doesn't pertain to me I would rather allow those who are affected offer their more knowledgeable and personally invested voice. This allows those whose voice truly matters in that city to govern that city more effectively. Those that are apathetic are more likely to vote strictly on what is claimed without verifying the claims of the potential representative or law. Therefore, forcing those who lack incentive to verify claims would undoubtedly lead to increased pandering and decreased political honesty rather than actually effective policy. This undermines the integrity of our elections and does not bolster representation. IV) MV punishes the lower class Analysts and sociologists agree that socioeconomic success is linked with higher voting turnout. According to Loretta E. Bass and Lynne M. Casper, ""Previous research shows that 'citizens of higher social and economic status participate more in politics. This generalization...holds true whether one uses level of education, income, or occupation as the measure of social status'... those with higher stakes in society are the most likely to go to the polls -- older individuals, homeowners, and married couples."" (5) This means that those affected most by mandatory voting laws will be those of lower social and economic status. Of those that didn't vote in the 2016 US presidential election, about 1 in 3 said they couldn't afford to or couldn't get the day off work. (6) Most nations and provinces that implement mandatory voting laws rely on heavy fines to incentivise voting which would clearly be devastating to minorities, younger individuals, and those in poverty. Once again we see that instead of incentivising voter turnout and addressing root causes of low voter turnout, mandatory voting discriminates, punishes, and threatens the lives and economic well-being of the most vulnerable members of society. In conclusion, democracy should never be wielded as justification to force the disadvantaged to act against their will under duress even if some may believe it to be 'for their own good'. Mandatory voting undermines liberty and democracy by unnecessarily restricting freedoms guaranteed them in the constitution. Mandatory voting also undermines elections by failing to address the root causes of low turnout such as political dissatisfaction, political ignorance, and political apathy. 1) https://usconstitution.net... 2) http://www.gallup.com... 3) https://www.washingtonpost.com... 4) http://www.gallup.com... 5) https://www.census.gov... 6) http://m.huffpost.com..."	CON	8
8	Se95c9f90-A5f9c23ad	U.S. presidential primaries should be held on the same day in every state.	My opponent seems to be absentee debating.	PRO	9
9	Se95c9f90-A61b13366	U.S. presidential primaries should be held on the same day in every state.	I'd like to thank my opponent for creating this debate. PLAGIARISM My opponent has plagiarized his entire first round argument from the following websites: https://quizlet.com... http://www.usnews.com... I ask the voters to consider this when voting on this debate.	PRO	10
10	Se95c9f90-A1e2e741e	U.S. presidential primaries should be held on the same day in every state.	Unfortunately, my opponent has forfeited this round. Hopefully he will return to the debate next round.	PRO	11
11	Se95c9f90-A921b8705	U.S. presidential primaries should be held on the same day in every state.	Maybe my opponent is busy voting.	PRO	12
12	S419ec682-A5d976f9f	May/June Beginners Debate Tournament: Voting should be mandatory	"I will begin by rebutting my opponents opening argument and will follow that with refuting their arguments against my opening arguments. ""I. MV surfaces the general will through wider representation"" Essentially the argument presented here is that more voices will be heard which leads to greater representation. The problem is that there is no reason or evidence to substantiate this claim. Almost 1 in 5 people who did not vote claimed to be too busy, almost 16% actually admitted to simply being disinterested and 4% claim to have just forgotten. These people (almost 40% of non voters) are generally apathetic to the political process. This mean they will not spend enough time sifting through the claims made by politicians to verify that they have an effective track record or that their proposals will actually do what they claim. Additionally, allowing people the choice to vote allows them to decide what issues are important to them which will actually lead to greater representation. Conversely, forcing people to vote in elections that they are apathetic towards will exacerbate the issues of misleading news headlines and political pandering/dishonesty for votes. MV leads to less representation for those who actually want to understand the particular issue while inconveniently forcing people who don't care to vote on things they know little or nothing about even if they start listening to a little more news (which they probably wouldn't) ""II. MV dismantles bad tactics"" My opponent claims that MV would force politicians to appeal to everyone rather than simply special interest groups. He also makes the claim that appealing to special interest groups undermines the voice of minorities. To substantiate his claim he uses an example of how a minority group (American Jews) lobby the government for policy that is more favorable towards Israel. One doesn't have to look very deep to see how this argument is self defeating. Jewish people are a minority. Yes, they are a financially successful minority in the aggregate as was pointed out, but a minority nonetheless. However it is important to note that American Jews are particularly invested in issues in the Middle-East and specifically Israel. It is precisely this attachment that makes their voice especially important because they are far more likely to be more educated on the history and current events of the region. My opponent failed to provide any evidence of harms presented by the existence of interest groups let alone that the harms outweigh the benefits. Interest groups are often minority groups and they are a way for those educated and invested in a particular issue to channel their voice louder than their numbers would otherwise allow. ""III. Voting is a civic duty"" My opponent makes the claim that voting is a civic duty and that they therefore ought to have a legal obligation to vote. He attempts to substantiate these claims by comparing one's obligation to vote to other involuntarily performed civic duties like paying taxes. The difference between taxes and voting are really quite apparent. By not paying taxes, one is essentially refusing to do their equal share of upholding the systems of our government and therefore they are undermining the rights that the government is obligated to protect. With voting this is not the case. Voting is a civic opportunity and by not voting, the only person ""harmed"" is the non-voter by not putting forth their voice to decide what they want the government to be. Voting is essentially an extension of free speech. Forcing someone to say something is illegal hence the 5th amendment right to remain silent. Additionally, if I do not feel qualified to vote on a particular issue or for a particular office because I don't feel adequately knowledgeable on the subject/candidates then I am upholding my government more by abstaining. ""IV. MV increases voters political knowledge"" My opponent points out that political engagement encourages political knowledge but this obviously ignores the fact that being forced to vote is not the same as engaging in the election process as one requires actually placing value on the election process and the other simply motivates people to check a random box under fear of force or fines. It is wrong of my opponent to suggest that ""people will be forced to think rationally the minute they fill up the ballot"". Thinking rationally is no replacement for actual knowledge and study on the subjects in question. My opponent uses the CSES project to substantiate the claim that political awareness increases under MV. After reading through the study, it is quite apparent that the study was far from conclusive in proving an increase in political knowledge under MV. It also does not prove greater political knowledge, only an ever so slight increased political knowledge with age and an ever so slight trend toward more evenly distributed political knowledge between some social groups. Even then it does not prove this for all factors as in the case of household income which has an even more severe impact on voting tendencies in countries that have ""moderately enforced"" or ""strongly enforced"" mandatory voting laws. (2) This means poorer people have less political knowledge in comparison to those in higher earning households under MV. Regardless though, we should seek greater average political knowledge rather than focusing on more equally distributed political knowledge. In the study my opponent cites, it was proven that countries with voluntary voting systems tend to have greater political knowledge on average than countries with strongly or moderately enforced mandatory voting laws. (3) This strongly counteracts any accrual of knowledge that may come with age because it shows the negative impact of MV on political knowledge overall. Having effectively dismantled and refuted my opponents arguments I will move forward with rebuilding my case as I refute my opponents rebuttals. I) MV undermines liberty and democracy My opponent claims that MV strengthens democracy because it benefits those who vote by through the positive effects of being represented. I have already explained why MV doesn't lead to greater representation but my actual criticism of MV in regards to democracy in this contention was that by abridging freedom of speech (which includes our democratic voice) we undermine democracy. In order to justify this attack on liberty/free speech, my opponent uses the example of jury duty. As I already explained however, an individual abstaining from voting does not harm the rights of others to a governmental system that represents them. This separates it from duties like taxes and jury duty which do directly impact the rights of others to an effective government. The only one ""harmed"" is the non-voter and even then there are plenty of instances where an individual would find less harm in the choice to exercise their free speech to not vote against their conscience for a candidate they disapprove of or abstain due to an awareness of ignorance to the issues of the legislation/candidates being voted on. II) MV doesn't incentivize political learning Pro reasserts his point about how political knowledge will increase more with age under MV. I already addressed the flaws in his conclusions drawn from this study. Nevertheless I will restate that the CSES also acknowledges that countries with MV have lower averages in regards to political knowledge. (3) Thus the age point is irrelevant. My opponent claims teaching citizens the actual effects of legislation is not relevant to ensuring people vote intelligently. I would contend this. It is essential. We can do this through investing in better civics education in schools and through political activism which encourage people to vote and educates them about the topic as well rather than forcing people to draw conclusions and hoping they research it when doing so. Pro also claims that as people are exposed to propaganda/fake news they will be more equipped to recognize it as such. In making this claim my opponent is misrepresenting the effects of propaganda on society. The more people are exposed (particularly those who are apathetic/inattentive and currently choose not to vote), the more likely they are to start believing and spreading that misinformation. III) MV doesn't lead to better representation for those most affected My opponent disregards my example because of trivial details that he claims make my example an exception to the rule. The whole point was to demonstrate that there are many reasons that cause one to be apathetic to a particular election/vote that does not affect the individual. My opponent did not really respond to my point about how politically apathetic/ignorant people are more likely to accept claims made to pander to them without verifying their truth except to say that pandering is not a big issue because the right to vote is still intact. Pandering is a problem because it encourages political dishonesty when groups simply vote based on claims made by a politician to support their cause without verifying those claims. If people can leave ballots blank then there is no point in MV. Apathetic non-voters will simply leave ballots blank but be inconvenienced by taking the time to go to their ballot box. IV) MV punishes the lower class (and the incapable) My opponent attacks his own argument here by suggesting alternative solutions to low voter turnout like extended voting periods and national voting holidays. The point remains that MV is essentially a threat of punishment to the lower class. Also, 14% of non-voters didn't vote because they couldn't due to handicap/illness. (1) Punishment isn't the solution. 1) https://bipartisanpolicy.org... 2) http://www.democraticaudit.com... 3) http://www.democraticaudit.com..."	CON	13
13	S419ec682-A27cc306d	May/June Beginners Debate Tournament: Voting should be mandatory	"I thank Deonatus for an understandable lengthy rebuttal, but let us not be fooled with quantity. In this last round, I shall refute his assertions, expose his fallacious logic, and display what true quality is. I.The General Will This metaphysical argument stems from the ideology of Jean-Jacques Rosseau, the general will. My point remains unscathed as Con did not counter this philosophy with another, and by doing so the next violates the rules as I didn't stipulate new arguments in R4, but was available in R3. The contention still holds its might for flagging what the collective will is. Even with a mass of polarized ideas, the result will always be the general desire of the people. The philosophy states that the more diversed, the more genuine the general will is. With less people, more of special groups, and a voluntary voting system, the general will is not at its finest. Also, the sources here were bent images, inflated.Con did this many times and I shall expose this unacceptable behavior as we go on.Con said almost 1 in 5 people who did not vote said they're busy. The right figure was 18.9%, far from 20%, far from almost. There's absolutely nothing wrong with writing the exact but it was surely done for appeal. Moreover, the chance to vote shouldn't be dismissed with just an 18.9 or 3.9 figure. There are millions of us that could change the Congress and the future policies of our nation. The people's power to improve the government should be taken seriously. This strengthens our democracy and political will for change. Also, let me put an end to political pandering that had been such a problem. Pandering basically means to do what one demands even though it's not proper, good, or reasonable. When this occurs, people are sure who deserves the vote more since pandering sheds light upon the misdeeds of coercion and dishonesty. I shall refute more of their assertions herein as we go through where they are most suited. II.MV dismantles bad tactics Con asserts that my argument defeats itself because Jewish lobby groups are minorities themselves. However, Con attacks the objective and omits the subjective value, the real focal point that intrinsically links to whether they are singled out from the others in the society in which they live for differential and unequal treatment, and who therefore regard themselves as objects of collective discrimination. Therefore, the minority status is conditioned by questions of political power, not only in cold numerical. Ostensibly, in the context of my arguments, the minorities are the people who are politically weak, oppressed, unheard, and abused. The Jewish lobby groups are strong communities that have power to control running officials and influence votes. With MV, we undeniably level the playing field that constitutes equal opportunities for problematic communities. III.Voting is a civic duty Again, voting is a civic right. There are government tasks that infringe the right to freedom of speech, but is needed to support our democracy's health. One is jury duty, we are forced to do this even though it clearly violates the 5th amendment. We harm the potential condition of our nation when we leave it to the higher classes and ruling elites, Con says we don't, but we actually harm the rights of our brethren when sly tactics become available and oppressed minorities are unheard. Even one of Con's sources, the Brennan Center of Justice, states that the right to vote is the most fundamental right in an electoral democracy, which people are sometimes deprived of.[1] When we vote, we not only exercise our civic rights, but also fortify our democratic stability. IV.MV increases voters political knowledge Con attacks the CSES data because it helps political knowledge with just an ""ever so slight"" increase. This is false. The study concludes that political knowledge does accrue with age, and to deny this would deny simple, natural logic and reason. Also, the study showed that men tend to be more knowledgeable about women, but with MV enforced, the gap was fixed with the result of evenly distributed knowledge. This strongly supports the notion of General Will, women representation and equal opportunity. Moreover, Con has used my data wrongly and again proves to my favor since the study proved that strongly enforced and voluntary systems show the same correct answers, but weakly enforced systems show the leading points.[2] Still,enforcement is better than no enforcement. Moreover, MV highlights a progressive growth through time, it may be effective now, but it will be more effective then. Con failed to refute how habit grows out of tradition, which helps accrue knowledge, and is prospective in the long-run. When there's a presidential election, we are apt to get involved in social media and pour out our thoughts while acquiring some in the process. This is a natural societal stimuli during elections and is arguably hard to perturb and erase. Black propaganda will be there, but in today's time the media can easily provide what's true or not, especially when interviews are made and politicians can explain what is false or not. After the elections, things will go back to normal and the people have 6 years to know what was outrageous and remained precise; the next time there are elections, the people would know. Humans are rational beings.Once we vote, we do things rationally. Again, we may be less rational in voting now, but we will improve as we go on. ---- I.MV doesn't undermine liberty and democracy It strengthens the integrity of our government and its valued democracy. I have already explained why by not voting, we harm the future state of our nation, undermine integrity, and prolong the problems of our abused brothers and sisters. II.MV does incentivize political learning I have strongly refuted this. Accrual of knowledge will prospectively help higher voter turnout, enthusiasm, and representation. III.MV leads to better representation for the most affected MV levels the playing field no matter what happens, it eradicates targeting strategies, and pays equal opportunity for the unheard to rise up and represent themselves. This is the most heroic value of MV, its salvation. Other than that, activistic movements can be deployed with leaving the ballots blank and spoiling votes. This can be essential data for further research and study, which in turn would help better social programs and policies. Especially when it is the presidential elections, there are millions of us who can finally change the congress, the policies, and the nation's future. MV is a transformative tool, that when utilized again and again, becomes the best arsenal for political change and betterment. IV.MV doesn't punish the poor and disabled Previously in this section Con said of voters who failed to vote, about 1 in 3 said they couldn't afford to or couldn't get the day off work. The right figure was 31%, not 33.33%. Con failed to be exact and truthful, for '3 in 10' is a whole lot less from '1 in 3'. Con asserts I attack my own argument, however, it is their own argument that self-refutes.Con provides data from BPC's Democratic Project, which helps election administrators ensure that all voters who are eligible to vote can successfully participate in the democratic process.[3] Con's 14% data remains true, but it turns counter-intuitive for the source supports my argument by giving ways to assist voters with disabilities, from accessible voting machines, polling places, curbside voting options, web-interfaces for completing absentee ballots..they must incorporate available, workable solutions into the process to reduce the number of Americans who report that disability and illness keeps them away from the polls.[3] With the aforementioned, voting holidays, scheduled voting periods for the busiest businesses, and express agreements, voter turnout will increase. It is greatly essential that our people's voice is represented to ensure the uttermost integrity and honor. In conclusion, I have strongly refuted Con's fallacious and inconsiderate assertions, they remained negative and oblivious to the fact that MV helps in the most profound and sympathetic way. The metaphysics of the General Will remains powerful and unscathed, and is an infallible philosophy. We level the playing field for every eligible voter and dismantle bad tactics, uphold our civic duty, safeguard the future of nation, political knowledge and voter enthusiasm accrues with age, strengthen our integrity and democracy, represent marginalized minorities, and helps the lower class. I have successfully laid out information the most accurate way possible, while my opponent resorts to giving bent images of their statistics, and used sources that were absolutely counter-intuitive and counter-productive in their part. Thank you for a wonderful match, I hereby affirm the resolution. And may everyone cast their votes and voice in the future. [1]http://www.huffingtonpost.com... [2]http://blogs.lse.ac.uk... [3]https://bipartisanpolicy.org..."	PRO	14
14	Sfcff81a7-Ade73083b	Polling stations during Elections should be conducted over a longer period than a single day	Nothing new to add, will be happy to respond to arguments counter to Rd #1.	CON	15
15	S419ec682-A53aa93e1	May/June Beginners Debate Tournament: Voting should be mandatory	I thank Deonatus for a comprehensive and well-written introduction. I hope we can both maintain this level of intelligent exchange throughout the match. Without further ado, I shall advance my rebuttals. I. MV doesn't undermine liberty and democracy The liberty and well-being of the members of the state remains intact under the implementation of MV. There is absolutely no reason to think otherwise. We must understand that when we vote, we choose not just an ordinary individual, but the future leader of the nation, the grandest of all positions. Once we support our government and vote accordingly, we strengthen our democracy, for there exists a reciprocal manifestation of trust, pride, and benefits. The results of the elections are materializations of our civic service that soon evolves into a democratic cycle of voting the servants of state and serving the state's voters. Con, in their attempt to use the first amendment to support their position, had unequivocally failed. Under their logic, MV abridges the freedom of speech. But, would jury duty be abridging the freedom of speech as well, given that flawed ratiocination? Governments force people numerous tasks such as jury duty, paying taxes, etc. But, that is because civic duties strengthen the democratic mutuality. And, voting is a civic duty. II. MV does incentivize political learning MV does motivate people to pursue needed knowledge about the upcoming election period. Let me reassert what I have said the last round; MV's implementation displays a prospective growth as the years go by. Since it is imposed that citizens are to duly report to precincts and cast a ballot, the natural reaction will be reading and talking about candidates and exercising it traditionally, making it a force of habit. Again, according to the Comparative Study of Electoral Systems (CSES) project, in which data came from 133 election studies, held in 47 countries between 1996 and 2013 states, it is strongly proven that political knowledge accrues with age.[1] Con stated that it is better to teach people about the effects of specific laws and everything that comes along with it. This may be a fair start on educating people, but it is not apropos to the political context of elections. Also, the issue of misinformation will also cease once the people are accustomed to fake news and black propaganda brought by MV. The surest way to educate a massive population about politics is to lead them to it, hands-on, and the effect will be nearly as big as the numbers. For an ounce of practice is worth a pound of theory. III. MV does lead to better representation for those most affected In this section, Con had remarked the perceived frivolity of voting to the apathetic, such as himself in the context of the example. However, his transient character is not the right analogue for the permanent figures of the state. These cases are special. But, nine times out of ten, people are permanently staying in a town, also adding the fact that it may be a poor and oppressed community. In that case, the people should vote. And, MV's a divine blessing for their curse since it strengthens representation and broadens the chances of a better life. Spoiled votes, with undertones of pandering and dishonesty, which Con truly despises, are strong political messages that the ruling government should take note. These actually imply an activistic movement against the incumbent and can be taken as essential data for further study and research. Also, pandering is not that big an issue since the right not to vote still remains intact. Ballots can be left blank. This would also banner a significant message of change and people power. IV. MV helps the lower class Even without MV, higher social classes tend to vote more than the lower classes. However, this is a meager problem. Longer periods for voting can be imposed along with MV, thus making it more convenient to people who have a hard time traversing from provinces or wherever they are settled. Also, express agreements made between subordinates and bosses are effective measures in dealing natural voting delays. The government can also schedule a later voting session for the busiest businesses or even declare a holiday. Time management can be dealt with, but managing the woes of the people is a different height. Again, MV broadens representation, especially for the poor, abused, unheard, forgotten, and oppressed. MV increases the chances of their burdens finally or insidiously resolved. With that being all said, I shall wait for the rebuttal. [1]blogs.lse.ac.uk/politicsandpolicy/compulsory-voting-results-in-more-evenly-distributed-political-knowledge/	PRO	16
16	S419ec682-A8c7a39af	May/June Beginners Debate Tournament: Voting should be mandatory	"I. Mandatory voting (MV) surfaces the general will through wider representation. Democracy's core value is upholding the right of every member of a sovereign state to voice out their individual will. Once individual wills are concatenated, the general will of the collective, even amidst an intermixture of conflicting ideas, emerges beyond the friction. This philosophy aims to not only allow people to banner their individual interests but also to seek out what the collective thought truly is. Instituting mandatory voting induces a broader voter representation that boldly strengthens this democratic philosophy. It allows every qualifying citizens to cast a ballot, making the results deserving of stature. Outside metaphysics, a larger turnout would find the legitimacy of the elected politicians far from being underminable because of stronger political participation. II. MV dismantles bad tactics. Possessing the broadest range of voter representation cancels political strategies to target special interests groups. When politicians see that they could rake votes in this particular group more than the other, fiercer campaign efforts are showered towards that particular group. This, in turn, would make minority groups hopeless to have their needs finally catered, their woes symphatetically resolved. A strong example of this is how Israel pulls liberals and democrats to its favor. ""One person who has spoken candidly about this is Bishop Desmond Tutu of South Africa, who was awarded the 1984 Nobel Peace Prize. Addressing an audience in Boston, he said: ""But you know as well as I do that, somehow, the Israeli government is placed on a pedestal [in the US], and to criticize it is to be immediately dubbed anti-Semitic ... People are scared in this country, to say wrong is wrong because the Jewish lobby is powerful -- very powerful.""[1] ""Two well-known Jewish writers, Seymour Lipset and Earl Raab, point""ed out in their book, Jews and the New American Scene: ""During the last three decades Jews [in the United States] have made up 50 percent of the top two hundred intellectu""als... 20 percent of professors at the leading universities ... 40 percent of partners in the leading law firms in New York and Washington ... 59 percent of the directors, writ""ers, and producers of the 50 top-grossing motion pictures from 1965 to 1982, and 58 percent of directors, writers, and producers in two or more primetime television series.""[1] This article tells how compelling Jewish lobby groups and political elites are in getting their concerns catered and desires favored due to their numerical superiority, in which are sourced from being the most influential and powerful people collectively. This is why mandatory voting's impact is needed. The impact of this policy is to seismically level the playing field when it comes to magnetizing votes. Since, the policy renders any sly and unfair tactics undeployable, saving the marginalized groups of political inequalities. III. Voting is a civic duty. Voting is more than just a right. It is a civic duty that should be exercised every election. It is a duty for the people to erect a new government with which a reciprocated benefit takes place, citizens vote, elected officials serve. This beneficial mutuality is analogous to taxes. We pay taxes to experience the privileges the government provides. Once we fail to, are we still deserving of its services? I think not. And, that would certainly speak the same for voting the future ruling government. Moreover, MV as a duty is also a tool that when utilized, strengthens yet again, the democracy of the nation. Abiding a civic responsibility constitutes firm discipline, undebased reverence, and trust, that our government will reciprocate what we put forth for its legitimacy and power. IV. MV increases voter's political knowledge. Political engagement encourages political knowledge. The curiosity and call to rationalization moves the voter to explore the depths of political knowledge. There may be less knowledgeable and savvy voters, but people will be forced to think rationally the minute they fill up the ballot. And, most of the time, adults get to hear anecodotes and personal experiences regarding the candidate's attitude and track history. So, to deny the onset of disseminating news, and divulged political views, is to deny the intrinsic societal stimuli during a period of election. In the majority of cases, political knowledge doesn't pose a grave threat to the end results. But, implementing MV would pose a threat to social biases ever-present in countries that follow a voluntary voting system. According to the Comparative Study of Electoral Systems (CSES) project, in which data came from 133 election studies, held in 47 countries between 1996 and 2013 states: ""Finally, previous research shows political knowledge, like other forms of knowledge, accrues with age. Here, the interaction of compulsory voting and age has no discernable effect, even with the large number of respondents. If anything, it has an almost invisibly small positive effect on political knowledge. This may reflect the accrual of knowledge over the lifecycle, as citizens in compulsory systems will have voted on average more times than those in voluntary systems and we expect participation in elections has some informative effects. ""In conclusion, compulsory voting "" particularly where it is enforced with sanctions or fines "" does appear to result in more evenly distributed political knowledge than voluntary systems.""[2] The key findings here was that voters' political knowledge increases gradually over the course of time. So, it may be true that when it is implemented now, the voters will be forced to know facts, but it will be truer then, when the people would finally learn to look at the political spectrum with enthusiasm and maybe out of practice, and have accrued knowledge of what political context genuinely entails. In conclusion, let me summarize my points. First, the democratic philosophy of the general will as an essential value that perpetually strengthens the newly elected government's legitimacy is unassailable through mandatory voting. Second, through this policy, social bias and marginalization will be dismantled while cultivating political equality. Third, a civic duty such as voting is imperative to abide and helps strengthen our democracy. Lastly, political engagement through voting increases political knowledge ceaselessly and is proven prospective in the long run. With that, I temporarily end my speech. [1]www.ihr.org/leaflets/jewishlobby.shtml [2]blogs.lse.ac.uk/politicsandpolicy/compulsory-voting-results-in-more-evenly-distributed-political-knowledge/"	PRO	17
17	S6937d4fe-A5a94eccc	Discrimination on the basis of religious beliefs should be legal in the workplace	"In many countries it is illegal to discriminate against someone on the basis of their religious beliefs. (1, 2, 3) First of all, I should like to make it clear that discrimination in the workplace on the basis of ethnicity or sex should be outlawed because an individual has no power to choose whether to be born black or white or male or female. However, people do have the freedom to choose their religion, or, indeed, to follow no religion at all. To illustrate my point, imagine you are walking through an airport terminal when you are approached by a pack of Christian evangelists who tell you that if you don't repent of your sins and let Jesus into your heart and give them your credit card details you are going to go to Hell in a handcart. Then, while you are still digesting these words, a bunch of Hasidic Jews come up to you and tell you that the Christians are talking out of their arses and it's the Children of Israel who are God's chosen people and that unless you convert to Judaism and join their synagogue (basic membership fee $3,000 per annum, payable cash in advance, please note a strict ""no pay no pray"" policy is maintained) you will be condemned to suffer in the fiery pits of the underworld for ever and a day. Now, at that moment, a group of radical Islamic clerics wade into the argument and tell you that only pious Muslims who give 2.5% of their annual income in alms and warriors who die fighting in the cause of Allah will be ushered into Paradise and all non-believers will be punished eternally. Okay, so you duly evaluate the various arguments and decide to sign up with the Jews. So, having agreed to abide by the 'ten commitments' (4) and having handed over a substantial wedge of cash and having made an appointment to get your, er...self, snipped by a knife-wielding Rabbi, you say farewell and make your way towards the departures lounge. ""Oy vey!"" cries one of the Hasidic recruitment officers, ""Remember the Sabbath day, that you may sanctify it. (Exodus 20:8)"" ""You what, mate?"" you reply. ""You can't fly today because today is Saturday which is the Shabbat, the Jewish sabbath"". (5) the Rabbi says. ""Yes, I see"", you say, ""but I've got a vital business meeting in Tokyo first thing on Monday morning and because of the length of the flight and the time difference, if I leave tomorrow I won't arrive in time and my company will forfeit a multi-million dollar deal as a result"". ""Well, that can't be helped, I'm afraid"" the Rabbi continues, ""You'll have to call your boss and tell him you can't go because you've converted to Judaism and the Torah commands you to observe the Shabbat"". So you call your boss at home and explain that you have found religion and that the holy scriptures command you to stay at home and do sod all on Saturdays and that he can stick his deal up his Gary Glitter as far as you are concerned and that there's nothing he can do about it because it is a matter of religious observance and that it's illegal to discipline employees for complying with their spiritual obligations. As a result, you get to go home and spend the weekend relaxing with your friends while your boss calls one of your non-religious colleagues and explains to him that he will have to abandon his terminally-ill wife's hospital bedside, leave his kids with his brother (who happens to live in a crack house with a convicted paedophile, an escaped mental patient and a recovering pyromaniac) and get on the next flight to Japan in order to cover for you. But would this arrangement be fair to your employer or your co-worker? I don't think so but this sort of thing happens all the time. (6) Clearly, in a secular society, laws that protect the right of employees to practice their religion should not be allowed to interfere with the commercial interests of their employers and legislation that punishes companies for discriminating against people of faith should, therefore, be repealed. Thank you. (1)http://www.adviceguide.org.uk... (2) http://ec.europa.eu... (3) http://www.eeoc.gov... (4) http://www.convertingtojudaism.com... (5) http://www.jpost.com... (6) http://www.bsos.umd.edu..."	PRO	18
18	S6937d4fe-A5467bd20	Discrimination on the basis of religious beliefs should be legal in the workplace	"This arguement my opponant presented is based on a highly unlikely story. Its like saying eagles should be hunted because what if an eagle sees a kid playing with his pet mouse, goes for the mouse and accidently bites the kids fingers off, and the kid dies of bleeding to death. For one lets think of the majority of these situations, most religious holidays that have an excuse from work are not frequent, most religions dont have so many holidays they dont work, in jewdaism its only 8 days of chanuka, still have to work though, yom kipper, where you dont have to work, rosh hashana, dont have to work, and shabbat nights where you still have to work. as cited here http://en.wikipedia.org... http://www.jewfaq.org... http://www.religioustolerance.org... Also your argueing ""Discrimination on the basis of religious beliefs should be legal in the workplace"", meaning you can descriminate other religions, and your arguement that converting causing some one to be late is possible is irrelivant to that. Discrimination is not disallowing holidays it is allowing people to insult people of seperate religions due to their religious beliefs. Allowing such would cause for to much controversy, personal grudges, and distracting debates minimizing work flow."	CON	19
19	S419ec682-Aa868220c	May/June Beginners Debate Tournament: Voting should be mandatory	"I would like to thank Nuevo for the debate, I have enjoyed our exchange. I will start by briefly addressing the false claims and conclusions my opponent has presented. I will then explain how the Con arguments have outweighed those given by the Pro side in this debate. I General Will My opponent presents a philosophical argument that while potentially alluded to was not explicitly stated. After reading and rereading the closest statement to this argument was done in round 2 when my opponent said in his conclusion, ""First, the democratic philosophy of the general will as an essential value that perpetually strengthens the newly elected government's legitimacy is unassailable through mandatory voting."" Whether or not my opponent is violating debate rules by including an argument that was not stated with any clarity and was not extended through round 3, I will leave to judges. I believe that I adequately responded to this with my arguments (Con I and Con III) which I will elaborate on when I extend my arguments. The accusations my opponent makes about the supposed abusive misrepresentation of statistics in my argument is, to be frank, absurd. 18.9% vs 20% is not a substantial difference and is within the margin of error for the statistic anyways. Beyond that I wished to illustrate the statistic with a simple, real-world illustration. 1 in 5 people is more accurate than saying 1 in 6. The rounding was insignificant, more accurate for illustration, and it certainly wasn't abusive. Pro claims 1.1% was significant error on my part ironically, Pro then states that 18.9% and 3.9% are an insignificant portion of non-voters. It is not insignificant, 18.9% makes up the second largest reason for people not voting. He also ignored the 15.7% that said they were not interested. As I stated in my actual argument, together that makes up almost 40% of non voters who were generally apathetic. II MV dismantled bad tactics Pro misrepresents my criticism of the Jewish lobby argument. I was pointing out how interest groups can give a louder voice to a minority (by which I mean small group) who are significantly more knowledgeable of their interest because of their investment in a given policy. I was not simply saying Jewish people are oppressed and therefore deserve a louder voice. III Voting is a civic duty As I already addressed, this argument falls with his comparison to taxes and jury duty. I have already pointed out that unlike those two duties (which are necessary for government to function) the decision to not vote is an exercise of of free speech that only limits the voice of the individual deciding to not vote. If I decide not to vote, I might not be as represented in government though if anything this gives greater power to the right to vote for others so the only ""victim"" would be oneself. If I decide to not do jury duty, I am undermining the right of others to a fair trial. If I do not pay taxes, I undermine the right to government protection guaranteed to all Americans under the Constitution. IV MV increases political knowledge Pro seeks to prove that the accruing of knowledge with age by a factor of 0.2 (with a .1 margin of error and only when strictly enforced) is significant. It really isn't because as I pointed out MV is linked to lower overall political knowledge unless the MV was weakly enforced. Pro didn't specify what level of enforcement they support but it seems that Pro will need to choose between lower political knowledge (strict) or no accruing knowledge with age (weak). As I stated before the evidence is far from conclusive that MV has any significant effect on political knowledge as evidenced by the inconsistencies between levels of enforcement and the small sample size (particularly in the weakly enforced sample group of 2 countries). Pro focuses again on how MV seems to close the gender gap in political knowledge but totally ignored that it increases the political knowledge gap between rich and poor. Regardless, overall political knowledge is more important than decreasing gaps between social groups. Averaging out the political knowledge of all countries with implemented MV laws shows that they have equal or even slightly less overall political knowledge than those with voluntary voting systems. Pro then suggests that the longer MV is implemented the more effectively knowledge will accrue with age. Their is no evidence of this not does Pro present any. Instead, he talks about how people who voluntarily (though he doesn't acknowledge that as a factor) engage in voting tend to be interested and research more. This ignores that almost 40% of non-voters are apathetic to the process and force does not make someone suddenly care about anything other than avoiding the potential punishment. I will now move on to my arguments and why Con should win this debate. I) MV undermines liberty and democracy Pro's argument against this ignores liberty and focuses on how democracy will be strengthened but fails to prove this in their arguments. We should not force people to vote when there is no candidate they feel they can vote for in good conscience. This infringes on constitutional rights of free thought and speech without any cause except to force them to do what Pro believes is in their best interest. Government shouldn't make life decisions for people, it should preserve peoples rights and Pro did not explain why that should not be the case. II) MV doesn't incentivise political learning Pro's only attempt to substantiate his claim against this was an inconclusive study that I already refuted and used against him. Pro does not successfully refute the point that apathetic people do not become engaged with force, especially if they have the option (as Pro asserts) to leave ballots blank. In my arguments I have suggested other methods to increase voter turnout that do not infringe on constitutional rights and that would be more effective such as investing in better civics education and political activism which educate and motivate apathetic voters far more than threats. Pro has neglected to explain why these methods would not prove effective while being more moral in its preservation of constitutional freedoms. III) MV doesn't lead to better representation for those most affected MV does not eradicate targeting strategies, those always exist in elections. Furthermore, Pro suggests that leaving ballots blank under MV is virtuous even though it destroys the whole point of MV by giving an easy cop out for the apathetic (almost 40% of non-voters) that results in them being inconvenienced and their rights infringed upon without their voice being heard anyway. Not voting says the exact same thing as a mandatory blank ballot but without restricing freedoms. I would also add that this is where propaganda, pandering, and political dishonesty come into play. People who don't vote tend to be significantly less educated on current and historical politics. This means they are far more susceptible to political dishonesty and media dishonesty/bias. The politically ignorant are politically ignorant because of greater apathy to politics which means they are less likely to verify the validity of claims made by media or politicians. They will instead sway in favor of empty political promises (or pandering) rather than doing the research to better represent their values. This is where Pro's ""General will"" argument fails as well. Uneducated and apathetic voting does not lead to greater representation or a stronger democracy. I'm not sure why Pro doesn't recognize that the arguments I've made throughout the debate under this contention as well as my first contention (MV undermines democracy) are sufficient response to his ""metaphysics of the general will"" argument. I suppose I will simply trust the judges to see his claim for what it is, empty. People will be more represented when they care enough to represent themselves. My personal anecdote about not voting shows this. When it affected me (federal, state, county elections) I educated myself because I knew it mattered. When the special election occurred I looked at the measures and knew they did not affect me so it was unimportant for me to educate myself on those issues and I decided not to vote. Had I been forced to vote I would not have researched because I was not going to be affected. Therefore my voice would have potential to stand against others who were more invested in and educated on the issues. IV) MV punishes the poor and incapable Once again, instead of addressing the actual argument, Pro chooses to nitpick my rounding of a statistic by 2%. Again, I rounded because 1 in 3 was more accurate than 1 in 4 and I wanted readers to be able to picture actual people rather than unillustriative percentages. My argument stands that many were unable to vote due to financial obligations and MV would simply increase that burden thus punishing the poor. To refute my argument about those that couldn't vote due to illness or disability, Pro provides many solutions to the problem. I would like to thank Pro, because in doing so they perfectly illustrate that the problem of voter turnout can be cured by other means. If those people will now vote because their reasons for not doing so have been satisfied then there is no need to bully them into doing so. Voter turnout can be addressed without threatening our most vulnerable (poor and disabled). That was the whole point of this argument and Pro proved me right. Pro solved the problem MV aims to fix with things other than MV and in doing so substantially removes any benefit from MV policies, leaving only the threats and restrictions of freedom. Conclusion- Pro failed to substantiate claims of stronger democracy and greater political knowledge under MV. Pro failed to justify infringements on freedom. Con has promoted more moral and effective alternatives which Pro acknowledges. MV is immoral and ineffective."	CON	20
20	S419ec682-A175977cf	May/June Beginners Debate Tournament: Voting should be mandatory	I would like to begin by thanking my opponent Nuevo for participating in this debate/tournament. This is not our first debate with one another and I look forward to discussing this new topic with you. I would also like to thank any readers and judges for taking the time to participate in this debate. In this debate I will be accepting the role of Con. I will be arguing that voting should not be mandatory. I accept the rules and format offered by Nuevo. Seeing as Pro has not done so, I will be providing a couple definitions. (1) Definitions: Voting- to choose, endorse, decide the disposition of, defeat, or authorize by vote (Merriam Webster) Mandatory- required by a law or rule (Merriam Webster) I give my best wishes to my opponent and look forward to an interesting debate. 1) https://www.merriam-webster.com...	CON	21
21	S419ec682-Af685f5aa	May/June Beginners Debate Tournament: Voting should be mandatory	Greetings to one and all! Finally, it's time for the May Beginners Debate Tournament Finals Match-Up. I am Nuevo and I will be arguing for the resolution. We are all aware of the fact that It is kind of an upset to see that this is the first and last debate of the tourney due to continuing failure in communication, but I assure you that this will be a great debate between me and Deonatus. And, this will not be the last you'll hear our names. With that being all said, let me advance the rules. Round 1 is for greetings and acceptance. Round 2 is for the introductory arguments, no rebuttals. Round 3 is for rebuttals and, if you wish, new arguments. Round 4 is for final rebuttals and conclusions and/or summaries. I wish Deonatus luck. And, may the odds favor the one who compels the best.	PRO	22
