	id	conclusion	premises	stance	rank
0	S64a697e7-A4cccf903	assisted suicide should be legalized	"So you were simply toying with me, as goes for me as well. Let me explain myself. Having poor spelling and grammar affects the strength and overall effectiveness as it will give a bad impression for the voters; thus, they will vote for me for having better spelling and grammar as a result. With your arguments, they are lacking in both quality and quantity, and voters will penalize you for low conduct. Also, you continue to personally attack and offend me by using elementary vocabulary that only children use to make a comeback to those that have offended them. Therefore, that is not only seen as childish and immature, but you will also be penalized by the voters and you should be embarrassed and ashamed of yourself for doing that. Debates do not permit personal attacking of opponents; if this was a real debate, you would have automatically already lost this debate. Opponent also does not seem to understand my arguments; must I simplify it for you? I argued that rights are man-made, superficial, and they can be taken away when abused (similar to a privilege), and that since God is a divine entity and not a mortal intelligent life-form, He cannot get involved in such affairs. I also said, to refute your argument, that although death can be pre-determined by natural factors, they can be affected by unnatural factors as well (just like how factors like condoms, birth control, and abortion can determine if a baby is born or not). I also stated that humans do have the knowledge and power to decide if their loved ones should die or not. However, when I mentioned about the existence of suicidal and homicidal people, opponent did not understand what I meant and assumed that I was going off-topic and irrelevant to the debate. In ways it is, which is why I have put it within brackets and not between commas. But it is also relevant to the debate since I am trying to use those kinds of people as a metaphor to simplify how humans have the knowledge and power over death. If you were to actually connect my argument with that ""irrelevant example"", you would understand, but clearly, irrational people such as you cannot comprehend metaphors and thus is useless to refute against your inferior mind. You are saying that such criminals should be put in jail; you are correct in that, yet you fail to understand what I am trying to prove with it. I meant that, in a metaphorical sense, murderers have the power and knowledge to determine whether a person dies or lives - as goes with suicidal people (but only with themselves). Do you understand now? Yes, if you want to die, then by all means, commit suicide in private or see a doctor to assist in suicide. Life is precious as you said but if you are living a terrible life in which you must endure through endless pain and suffering everyday, such as an ill patient with an incurable disease or a child with abusive parents, then there is little point in trying to continue on with one's daily lives. Of course, some situations you can ease the situation, but in cases where you can't (like the patient example above), then that person going through such pain and suffering should simply kill themselves to end their lives and stop the suffering. Now, I won't go on about the negative effects of not assisting in suicide as this debate is about the legalization and not about euthanasia in general, so I will leave it at that. After recommending to bring in sources, you finally start to by bringing in statistics. You fail to back that up as there is no link or citation of the source; thus, making your statistic unreliable and false. I suggest you do that in the next round, and make sure that it is a trusted source and not a random source, thank you very much. Yes, it may be abnormal with suicide rates skyrocketing more than ever when compared to the past and in certain countries such as Japan and South Korea, but the government can prevent it through other methods besides making euthanasia illegal. Some ways are to educate the public, understand the causes, discipline people at a young age, and the like which can eventually decrease and even prevent/reduce the suicide rate. I have unknowingly helped you by giving advice on how the government can prevent suicide rather than legalizing it, but opponent has continued to have incorrect spelling and grammar, as well as low conduct even after I have disciplined opponent to prevent it."	PRO	1
1	S8e58c781-A5ebf5007	should illgle immagrants be allowed citezenship	i think that illegal immagrants should not be allowed citezship because they came to this country illegaly. they should have got a green card or a passport so they could come here legaly.	CON	2
2	S397892cd-Afdd386a3	Should the United States have stricter immigration laws.	To start the 3rd round I will apologize for my error in losing topic in the second round. Opponents argument You said that the current unemploment in the U.S is 5.5% and that it is expected to lower but I don't see how considering a lot of our jobs are being sent overseas and a lot of the jobs here are being taken by immigrants who will work cheaper than most Americans. Issues with legal and illegal immigration I believe that immigration laws should be stricter on legal and illegal immigrants. I think the law should be stricter on both legals and illegals immigrants. I think the law should be stricter on legal immigrants is because many come to this country without even knowing our language, I understand that the U.S does not have an official language but English is the most spoken in the U.S today. This is important because how can we cooperate with each other is neither of us can understand each other. But that is the only major concern I have with legal immigrants but illegal immigrants are a different story. When the first thing someone does when they enter our country is break a major law and not get punished accordingly then there first impression is that we have weak enforcement of our laws and they are more likely to break laws. Another problem is when children enter the country they expect people to feel sorry for them and then they want Americans to spend tax money on flying in illegal immigrant when it would be the same price if not cheaper to fly the children back to there home country. My final issue with illegal immigration is that when they come here they don't pay taxes but they use things that cost government money like schools and library's. Ways the U.S could improve on our immigration laws. A few ways to improve our laws on legal immigration is that we should require that they know basic English before getting there citizenship. But I do have a lot of respect for people who take the legal route to entering our country and I hope we can teach each other many things. A few ways the U.S could improve on its illegal immigration is that if you come into this illegally no matter your age you should go on trial for deportation and if you don't get deported and you want to use our schools and other government paid things then you should at least pay some taxes and not expect other people to pay them for you. I have been honered to debate you, and you have definitely challenged my views on immigration. May the best man win.	PRO	3
3	Sbf9475f7-A6018f9e	gay marrige should be legalizzed	"I will start by refuting my opponents claims and statements. Your definition of the word marriage is wrong,some countries do have gay marriage. Like : Netherlands: On April 1, 2001 the Netherlands became the first country in the world to legalise same-sex marriage, with the same rights as heterosexuals. Includes the right to adopt. Belgium: Homosexual couples in Belgium have almost the same rights as heterosexuals. They won the right to marry in 2003 and in 2006 parliament voted into law a bill allowing homosexual couples to adopt children. Spain: In 2005 Spain became the third member of the European Union to pass a law allowing same-sex marriages. Gay couples can adopt children, whether they are married or not. Canada: Canada adopted a national law allowing gays to marry and adopt in July 2005, though most provinces had already allowed same-sex unions before that date. South Africa: The country legalised same-sex unions and adoptions by gay couples in November 2006, becoming the first African nation to do so. Norway: A 2009 law allowed homosexuals to marry and adopt children. Civil partnerships have existed in the country for 20 years. Sweden: Sweden's homosexuals have been allowed to wed in religious or civil ceremonies since May 2009. Portugal: Under a 2010 law Portugal legalised gay marriage, while excluding the right to adoption. Iceland: Prime Minister Johanna Sigurdardottir married her long-time partner in June 2010 as a new law legalising homosexual marriages came into force. Same-sex couples who have lived together for at least five years have had the right to adopt children since 2006. Argentina: Gays in Argentina became the first on the South American continent to be able to wed and adopt, after legislation passed on July 14, 2010. Denmark: Denmark, the first country in the world to allow gay couples to enter into civil unions in 1989, voted overwhelmingly in favour of allowing homosexuals to marry in the state Evangelical Lutheran Church in June 2012. Uruguay: Uruguay voted in April to allow same-sex marriages nationwide, making it only the second Latin American country to do so. New Zealand: New Zealand on April 17 became the first Asia-Pacific country to legalise same-sex marriage, after a decades-long campaign. Partial Rules Gay couples can marry in nine US states, as well as in the capital Washington, while parts of Mexico also allow same-sex marriage. Brazil this month gave a de facto green light to same-sex marriages after its National Council of Justice ruled that government offices could issue marriage licenses to gay couples without having to wait for Congress to pass a law allowing gay unions. Expected Soon Britain: Same-sex couples in Britain have had the right to live in civil partnerships since 2005 but cannot marry. British lawmakers voted in February in favour of controversial legislation allowing gay marriage, despite fierce opposition from members of Prime Minister David Cameron's Conservative party. The bill has since been scrutinised by a committee of lawmakers and will be debated again in the lower House of Commons on Monday, followed by a vote on Tuesday. If the vote passes, the bill will go before the upper chamber, the House of Lords, before becoming law. Civil Unions A number of other countries have adopted laws that recognise civil partnerships and give couples more or less the same rights as heterosexuals. Countries to have recognised civil unions without yet accepting gay marriage include Germany (2001), Finland (2002), the Czech Republic (2006), Switzerland (2007) and Colombia and Ireland (both 2011) If there are countries were gay marriages are allowed the oxford definition Is wrong,because it is ignoring the fact that in some countries gay marriages is a thing. Now going to your statements of the divorce rates.i do not argue with you that most of gay people break- up. Does divorce rates mean that the gay coupels that last live times aren""t true love?Should we bann the lottery there is a huge chance that we will not gain any money why do we bann everything that is probely not going to work?We do not do that because it would take the choise away from the people. There are many reasons why straight coupels divorce less. Children:parents do not want to lose the custody of their children,they do not want the children to live without both parents. So many coupels stay together even if there isn""t any love between each other they do not want to lose their children . Property split there are many states who have very draconic laws for divorce given almost everything to the women. Gay coupels usually have less things bonding them to each other like children. So if gay coupels survive the test of time their love has been proven. My opponent does a remark that people are going to want to marry animals,objects and multiple reasons.and I shall explain why this cannot happen if we legalize gay marriage.I shall explain why this will not be possible with the legalization of gay marriage. Animals:animals cant sign legall documents.so they can not sign a marriage certificate. Objects:objects have no rights to sign any legall document ore have the ability to do it(yet). Polyamory:would be an option and I do not se why it would be wrong.if you don""t agree with me whe can have a debate on that. My opponent states that people will change laws to democracy to make such marriages legal.Democracy requires the majoritie of votes if people in the future see that as right and they are the majority then who is the minority to oppose what the majority wants. In 100 years we will be most likely be dead ,so why should we have a say in the politics of the future if we are dead. My opponent says that no religion accepts gay marriage what is false(atheism is not a religion ). Religions who accept gay marriage: -Christianity : Support and affirmation of marriage rights for same-sex couples increasingly come from certain Christian denominations that are theologically considered liberal. Some examples of religious organizations voicing their support for marriage equality include Metropolitan Community Church, the United Church of Christ ""Marriage Equality and the UCC""., theChristian Church (Disciples of Christ),[1] the Episcopal Church of the United States, the Anglican Church of Canada, the Evangelical Lutheran Church In America and the Unitarian Universalists church which has long supported the rights of gays and lesbians to marry both in the church and through the state.[2][3] Numerous progressive congregations and organizations within mainline Christian denominations, that have not yet officially voiced official support for marriage equality, have spoken out themselves in support of equal marriage rights in the church and through the state.[4] -Liberal Buddhists -Liberal Hindus -Wicca Native American religion Forbidding gay marriage is oppression of these religions,basing marriages laws one Christianity is wrong. The united states have been founded one the pricipels of church and saate separation. http://www.youtube.com... http://www.youtube.com... My new argument: Not all humans are man and woman there are uni-sex peopel .should those peopel be allowed to marry.of course they should.saying that marriage should be betwen a man and a women is ignoring that not all humans are even man or women. Note:Saying that kids need the love of both parents to be normal is saying that kids who live in a divorced coupel are not normal,kids who one of their parent is dead are not normal,saying that children who lived there entire childhood are not normal and does that sound right to any one.Childreen do not get confused by seeing gay coupels my mother had many gay friends I have many gay friends that does not mean that I got confused.I am heterosexual after having had many encounters with gay people as I was before nowing them.What confuses children is live their hole live without knowing of the existenz of gay marriage and then finding out that gay coupels exist.What they think :I did not now that gay people exist maybe I am one of them? That is all for now."	PRO	4
4	Sc8d9f8d2-Ae7d5538b	Murder should be legalised	"I will start by definition, rebuttals and then presentation of my argument. DEFINITIONS MURDER: mur""""der - /""0""4m""0""5rd""0""5r/ noun 1. the unlawful premeditated killing of one human being by another. Murderis the unlawful killing, with malice aforethought, of another human, and generally this premeditated state of mind distinguishes murder from other forms of unlawful homicide(such as manslaughter.en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Murder. the crime of deliberately killing a person. : something that is very difficult or unpleasant.www.merriam-webster.com/../murder. LEGALIZE: le""""gal""""ize - /""0""4l""""g""0""5""0""5l""""z/ verb 1. make (something that was previously illegal) permissible by law. Legalization is the process of removing a legal prohibition against something which is currently not legal.en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Legalization. REBUTTALS My adversary said, 'Why is murder not legal? Our population reached a disastorous number long ago, and we need to keep it down. Lower it. Defeat the plague of evil and corruption that has swept over our world'. My adversary has just conceded in this debate by giving weak argument. Let me ask, will killing unlawfully solve evil and corruption in our society? In murder should be legalized, it then means we are inviting autocratic rule and also autocratic within ourselves(citizens). Imagine a situation where murder is legalized, I can kill anybody of my choice, provided the person goes on my shoe. It seems like my adversary do not know the meaning of murder. Now my opponent also pointed out, that the 'population is high, so we should reduce the population'and he said, it can be done by murder. Readers, please my adversary is ignorant of the fact, that he might be a victim to that if it should be legalized. Don't you think that the population is even moderate in case we have war against the outer world. Moreover, there are ways to reduce the population which murder is not there. The following ways includes 1.re-orientation of youths. 2.abstain from sex in youthful day in other to avoid unwanted pregnancy. 3.there should be family planning and the parents should decide how many children they want to give birth to. This can reduce the population of the world if need be and not by killing some one. Imagine how horrorful it will look when my adversary watches when they are stagging knife in her mum's stomach. Ladies and gentlemen, murder should not be legalized. My opponent said, murder is the solution. You can get rid of anybody standing on your way. This alone, has shown how the world will look like if everybody should get rid of another who is on his shoes. So disasterous. MY OPPONENT'S WEAKNESSES My opponent, gave no definition which means, he will argue with my own definition. My opponent made claims which he gave no source. My opponent said, there is corruption and evil so murder can reduce it, but he didn't explain how. My opponent has ironically conceded. ARGUMENT 1.IT WILL CAUSE HAVOCS AND DISTURB THE PEACEFUL CO-EXISTENCE BETWEEN CITIZENS, AND STATES. Now if murder should be legalized, it will bring problem in our society. Our society is already facing some socio, political and economic development and if we are to legalize murder, it means we are equally bringing in more problems. Let me ask, how will we know that the population of the world has even reduced? Don't you think that trade centres will be closed? Because they will be afraid of doing something that will warrant them been murdered? And imagine the hunger strike that citizens will go into. 2. IT WILL REDUCE DEVELOPMENT. Legalization of murder will retard the pace of our socio-economic development. Now contractors and people in the field of economic and social development will have to rest their nerves because no one wants to get caught by the horror of murder. 3.IT WILL ENCOURAGE WORLD WAS THREE (3). A situation where by one gets rid of anybody standing on his shoes, don't you think America can decide to get rid of germany? Or even france if possible? Because murder is legalized. This will even encourage war. And you don't tell me that if somebody should kill ur siblings, or your parents that you won't fight back. MY STAND IN THIS DEBATE IS THIS: SINCE THERE ARE OTHER WAYS TO REDUCE POPULATION, WHICH I EARLIER EXPLAINED, THEN MURDER SHOULD NOT BE LEGALIZED. IN CONCLUSION, I defined the basic terms, rebutted my adversaries weak argument and then stated my argument. Which shows am ahead of this debate"	CON	5
5	Sc8d9f8d2-Aeddd4448	Murder should be legalised	"REBUTTALS my opponent said. Oh good, another essay for me to read. If you truly want to debate, keep it concise, I'm sick of these responses simply copied and pasted from a wiki page; very original. But then, I must say, my opponent is a novice. The wiki I pasted was the definition of terms. And if I paste anything, thats is my source of information. The pasting I did, was the definition of terms. And for my opponent to say his getting bored, it means he has conceded. I must say, that my opponent using harsh words on me, is a real form childish debate. I hate debating with people who insult me. This website is for arguing not insulting. If this is how u argue, then I bet, anybody will agree to debate with you again. My opponent before calling me an imbecile said'Think of it this way: do you want your children/grandchildren to live in a suitable environment? Just a few years of killing should do the trick. No ramifications. Just a clear, bright future for us all to enjoy. Oh yes, you're completely ahead in this debate. I couldn't even be bothered reading past the first website reference. I know what murder means you imbecile, I wrote it in my initial proposition. What is this? Did you just get ""Being an Attorney for Dummies"" at the bookstore, and rip out a couple of pages? It's just that age old debate, of one man or an entire race. Do you want your relatives now to die, so that millions, even billions can live later on? Perhaps not, but simple minds think alike, and I'm starting to get tired. Now the children you mentioned, what if they were been killed? Or what if your generation is been killed? How will they then survive? Now if murder should be legalized, and the children should suffer for some time, just as you claimed,do you think that after that period, that evil and corruption will stop? Possibly no. So no matter how you said it, murder should not be legalized"	CON	6
6	Sbf9475f7-Afc0bcfad	gay marrige should be legalizzed	Nice Topic! Look forward to debating against you, about how gay marriages should not be legalised.	CON	7
7	S2933777c-A6c5e2cbb	The monarchy should be abolished in the UK	"The title is self explanatory. I will be arguing that the monarchy is a burden to the UK and that the monarchy should be abolished and 99% of its wealth should be given to the treasury. Reasons: The monarchy is a waste of taxpayers money. in 2008 the royal family cost the British taxpayers £40 000 000. this money is spent on things such as official overseas trips and palace maintenance. Why should this money be given to them when it could be given to support our troops or fund our hospitals?{Source} http://news.bbc.co.uk... If the monarchy were to be abolished the treasury would be given vast amounts of money. If the monarchy were to be abolished and 99% of its wealth was given to the treasury it would receive £346 500 000 this money could be given to the ministry of defense or to our schools and hospitals instead of being in the possession of undeserving people. The monarchy has no place in modern British society. according to wikipedia ""A monarchy is a form of government in which all political power is passed down to an individual (usually hereditary) known as a monarch (""single ruler""), or king (male), queen (female)."" Years ago the monarchy was the dominant power in Britain. declaring wars, deciding on foreign affairs, running the country. nowadays all this stuff is handled by the British government and the monarchy no longer has a place in Britain anymore. I am done researching for the night so I will give my opponent some time for his or hers rebuttal and resume debating tomorrow if an opponent has accepted by then."	PRO	8
8	S2933777c-A551b0df2	The monarchy should be abolished in the UK	Actually the monarchy costs the taxpayer nothing, as all income from the Crown Estates is donated to the treasury (http://en.wikipedia.org...) (http://www.thecrownestate.co.uk...), which last year totalled ï¿½256million (http://www.thecrownestate.co.uk...). That means the taxpayer is actually gaining ï¿½216million each year. Then there is income generated from the royals income tax, which is in the millions (http://www.royal.gov.uk...). Royal events such as weddings and funerals also generated income for the people (http://www.bbc.co.uk...) (http://news.travel.aol.com...) (http://news.scotsman.com...) (http://www.bbc.co.uk...), we can see from television figures that Royal events are popular here and worldwide, with Diana's funeral and the Queen Mothers funeral being among the most watched events ever.(http://www.dailymail.co.uk...), which gives a scale of how much money can be generated from their events. Then there is the flood of tourists who come here on the back of it still being a monarchy, which provides an invaluable boost to local and national business' (http://www.belfasttelegraph.co.uk...). You wouldn't get that from the election or marriage of a non royal. I don't know why my opponent assumes that if the monarchy was abolished their wealth would go to the treasury, not only is that illegal (http://www.inbrief.co.uk...) but it isn't as beneficial as he may think. The Queen isn't even in the top 12 richest in the UK (http://en.wikipedia.org...), in fact she isn't even the richest monarch in the world, not even in the top 10 (http://www.telegraph.co.uk...). Most of the monarchy's wealth is in their assets, which totals ï¿½6.6billion (http://www.thecrownestate.co.uk...), so even if the treasury confiscated their wealth they would have to find buyers for those assets before any income was generated. It would make more sense to confiscate the wealth of Lakshmi Mittal, whose fortune is that of 10 monarchs. My opponent also does not realise that a lump sum injection into the treasury does not result in new projects. Economies are based on income, and credit ratings (http://www.guardian.co.uk...). If the UK were to use the monarchs wealth to build new hospitals, it would then be lumbered with the cost of their upkeep, costing the taxpayer more. As I pointed out in the first paragraph, it is far more beneficial to have the steady and vast income generated from the monarchy, which if abolished would simply go into their own pockets and not to our treasury. The argument that they have no place in British society is an odd one. In 2000 years, only 10 have been without a monarch (http://en.wikipedia.org...), and that isn't even getting into the debate of whether Cromwell was King in all but name. Does my opponent think our rights, legals systems and traditions developed separate to the culture that has always had a monarch? British society is a constitutional monarchy, without the monarchy there would be no Britain, only England, Cymru and Alba (http://en.wikipedia.org...). If British society is a constitutional monarchy, then how can the monarchy have no place in that same society? In the surveys undertaken over the last 15 years an overwhelming amount support the monarchy (http://news.bbc.co.uk...) (http://populuslimited.com...). British society obviously, not only wants the monarchy, but likes the monarchy. In fact, in a survey (http://populuslimited.com...), not one age group had less than 51% saying they could relate to the Royal family, with some age groups even having 61%. So if the British people are relating to the Royal family on many issues, how can they have no place in our society? It is obvious that as their power diminished, their role changed within the UK, and that role is one that the people of Britain appreciate. I have disproved all three of my opponents points, and shown that the monarchy should not be abolished. I await his response.	CON	9
9	S8e58c781-A89b46335	should illgle immagrants be allowed citezenship	"I think you forgot the topic question. ""Should illegal immigrants be allowed citizenship?"", is the question we are discussing. You repeatedly state that illegal immigrants are taking jobs away from American citizens, and yet if we were to give illegal immigrants citizenship, then they would be citizens. There are currently an estimated 11,100,000 illegal immigrants residing in America, according to a recent survey taken by The Department of Homeland Security. America doesn't really have any choice but to give these immigrants citizenship; it'd be impossible to send back that many people to their homelands. In order to find and deport every illegal immigrant, the U.S government would need to undergo a massive bureaucratic expansion, in order to hire more workers to find the immigrants. You stated that ""illegal immigrants take up jobs that are for us."" Employers should be allowed to hire whoever they chose to, and not be forced to hire based upon legal status. Businesses will increase in size the more people that they hire, which will help support America's economy. In conclusion to my argument, America needs to face facts; millions of illegal immigrants currently reside in America, and the vast majority of them are hardworking, taxpaying and law abiding. We should give them complete amnesty and work together to help make America a greater nation."	PRO	10
10	Sbf9475f7-A4af6b934	gay marrige should be legalizzed	good luck english isnt my first languaage so excuse me and i would like this debatte to end today not wait 1 day for each argument,but you can take as long as you wish. if two adult peopol feel love betwen theme self they should have the coice to get married . anal sex can provoque infectius deseses but why onli use that as an argument against gay peopel and not man and women.	PRO	11
11	Sbf9475f7-Aa9091a	gay marrige should be legalizzed	"Thank you, Pro, for your arguments and rebuttal, albeit, I get extremely distracted from your grammatical errors, instead of focusing in the actual points, that you purpose, and therefore, comprehending, what you are saying, becomes harder. Please make an effort to improve your grammar, even if English isn't your first language. Thank you. I will now proceed, with defending my arguments, and stating some new reasons. 'your definition of the word marriage is wrong, some countries do have gay marriages' Firstly, the amount of countries that don't accept gay marriages, largely, overtake the number that do. Since, majority rules, this definition of mine, overtakes your facts, because this definition is valid to most countries. Anyhow, your list, doesn't prove that gay marriages should be allowed, just because some countries do it, doesn't mean the rest should copy. 'Now going to your statements of the divorce rates.i do not argue with you that most of gay people break -up Does divorce rates mean that the gay coupels that last live times aren""t true love?' Are you trying to say that the affects of straight divorced couples overtake gay, in this argument? Anyhow, the number of grammatical errors, really distract me, but, seriously? I don't think you know why majority of the world's divorces occur? They occur because couples argue, they start disliking each other, etc. this is the reason, by far, most of the time, as to why we see divorces. And as I proved the divorce rates within gay marriages, are extremely high, comparing to straight marriages, it proves that gay, isn't true love. You used examples of how we should ban the lottery, because there is a huge chance that we will not gain any money, etc. In regards to that, we do this for entertainment purposes, anyhow, that is not related to this topic in any shape or form. Also, you have stated ""There are many reasons why straight couples divorce less..."" Your first reason was on children, in regards to this, there is this thing such as, ""On Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, my child is staying at my house, and on the rest of the days he can stay with he's father"" You also stated, that 'so many couples stay together even if there isn't any love between each other, because they do not want to lose their children"", what do you mean by ""lose your children?"" Still, they are thinking of their child's future, unlike gay couples, where they confuse their 'sane' child. You also stated some other reasons which, don't prove why gay marriages should be legalised, so I won't rebut against them. My opponent, also states, why people wouldn't want to marry animals and objects. In 100 years, we would have modified our politics, to benefit us. If gay marriage is thought to be right, then, why not animals, ""I love my dog, I feel a sexual connection with him, I feel true love, and you can't change that"", this is exactly, the reasons why gradually, marrying objects and animals, should be alright. Gay marriages happen, why not marry animals? True love only happens with one person, polyamory marriages don't hold true love, or the value of 'marriage'. 'Democracy requires the majoritie of votes if people in the future see that as right and they are the majority then who is the minority to oppose what the majority wants.' We have the sense to see that there are no 'pros' in gay marriages and the 'cons' overtake, by far. This is wrong, and if we have the sense to stop this, then we should. You also said, ""In 100 years we will most likely be dead..."" I meant to say our generations, which follow, and develop today's ethics. Also, don't mess with the fact, that Christianity doesn't allow gay marriages, the bible strictly goes against this, as proved in Romans chapter 1: 26-27 '26 For this reason God gave them up to dishonorable passions. For their women exchanged natural relations for those that are contrary to nature;27 and the men likewise gave up natural relations with women and were consumed with passion for one another,men committing shameless acts with men and receiving in themselves the due penalty for their error.'and many other verses. Not just the bible goes against this, but history goes against gay marriages (1). Hinduism? I am a Hindu, a Brahman, and I know Hinduism is strongly against this, in fact, no religion agrees with your false statement. (2) Number 2, is just one website that supports my argument. Also, in regards to your 'new argument' of course they're allowed to be gay, they have no choice. But people that are fully females, or males, can do the right thing, and not be gay. Finally, in regards to your 'note', children follow their parents ethics, gay marriages just confuse people, and for further detail on this argument, go to final argument in round three. And in regards to your comment which considers kids with single mum's, and dad's. Firstly, we, as a community, go against single parents, secondly, but, the pros of single parents are better than gay parents. One example, to prove my point, is that sexual confusion only occurs in gay parents, kids think, ""but my friend's parents are straight, should I love boys or girls... or both"" kids become confused, and don't know who they are. In this war, amid gay couples and kids. Kids hold more value. Besides, kids need both the love of mothers and fathers, because, mothers are more attached to kids than fathers, then, on the other hand, fathers help, kids, to learn to be detached, this is why, we go against single parents, but gay marriages are just worse. Anyhow, you argument (referring, to the 'note', one), itself, doesn't prove that gay marriages should be allowed. Thank you. Apologises for the mistakes. :) Bibliography 1) http://www.gotquestions.org... 2)http://www.theotherteam.com..."	CON	12
12	Sef54dc89-Ab8cab710	Donald Trump should be the next US president	I will be arguing that Donald Trump should not the next president of the United States while my opponent will be arguing that he should.	CON	13
13	S84f999d5-Afc0ad91b	Resolved: Medical Marijuana should be legal	"First I thank my opponent for allowing the debate to be open to all, second i wish to clarify my beliefs, it is my personal belief that MJ should stay illegal. I do also believe that by giving peopel ""medical"" MJ people will start to become addicted to it. I accept this debate and look forward to the following rounds Def: Medical- medï¿½iï¿½cal (md-kl) adj. 1. Of, relating to, or characterizing the study or practice of medicine. 2. Requiring treatment by medicine. n. A thorough physical examination MJ-A common street and recreational drug that comes from the marijuana plant: the hemp plant cannabis sativa. The pharmacologically active ingredient in marijuana is tetra-hydro-cannabinol (THC). Marijuana is used to heighten perception, affect mood, and relax. Many people think marijuana is harmless, but it is not. Signs of marijuana use include red eyes, lethargy, and uncoordinated body movements. The long-term effects may include decrease in motivation and harmful effects on the brain, heart, lungs, and reproductive system. People who smoke marijuana are also at increased risk of developing cancer of the head and neck. A pharmaceutical product, Marinol, that contains synthetic THC, is available as a prescription medication. It comes in the form of a pill (eliminating the harmful and cancer-causing chemicals present when marijuana is smoked) and is used to relieve the nausea and vomiting associated with chemotherapy for cancer patients and to treat loss of appetite in AIDS patients. mood-altering herb they smoked marijuana Legal-1. Of, relating to, or concerned with law: legal papers. 2. a. Authorized by or based on law: a legal right. b. Established by law; statutory: the legal owner. 3. In conformity with or permitted by law: legal business operations. 4. Recognized or enforced by law rather than by equity. 5. In terms of or created by the law: a legal offense. 6. Applicable to or characteristic of attorneys or their profession. n. 1. One that is in accord with certain rules or laws. 2. legals Investments that may be legally made by fiduciaries and certain institutions, such as savings banks and insurance companies. Also called legal list these came from: http://www.medterms.com...(MJ) http://medical-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com... If there are any problems with the above let me know and ill explain each."	CON	14
14	Sbf9475f7-A3b7a1c9	gay marrige should be legalizzed	"I thank my opponent for their reasons, and will now proceed with my own. Gay marriages should definitely not be allowed. Not many consider how humans are not allowed to marry their first cousin, animals, objects, or multiple amounts of other individuals. The physical word ""marriage"" is defined as ""The formal union of a man and a woman, typically recognised by law, by which they become husband and wife."" Gay marriages are impure, and simply wrong, many would agree and say gay marriages aren't even proper marriages. My opponent has stated that if two adults love each other, then they should have the choice to marry. If it really is true love, then, it would be forever lasting, and it wouldn't have been statistically proved that nearly every gay marriage has led to a divorce, for various reasons. So, if you want gay marriages to be legalised, then you are wanting to see more broken families, leading to less unity occurring, and are being disrespectful to the value and word, ""marriage"".As Our society's aim to benefit and advance the society, as well as the future generations. Gay marriages would mean that in the future it would be seen as the right thing to marry objects and animals, as animals are 'a living thing' which is seen as an illusion to a person, and is not true love. Gay marriages are an illusion of what they believe to be true love but it is wrong, scientifically and religiously proved. Once we allow gay marriages to occur, once we transgress the one-man, one-woman threshold as the definition of marriage, there is no logical place to stop. It is inevitable that restricting polygamy will soon be labeled a form of discrimination, along with attempts to restrain any other form of coupling. In fact, the homosexual activist who led the charge to declassify homosexuality as a mental disorder in 1973 is now openly advocating the legitimacy of bestiality (as long, of course, as the animal ""consents""). Also, for those, gay people, who choose to have children, after their gay marriage, nearly everything is bad, expect freedom for their children, which in some cases, is also bad. Children need both the love of their mother and father. Same-sex does not provide that, in fact, it confuses them, and if, for the sake of fake love amid two people, their children are more confused about the environment around them, then others, then gay marriages should not be legalised. Some of the reasons to confuse these children would include, how men and women are fundamentally different from each other, in every cell of their bodies, meaning that a father has a unique contribution to make to the lives of his children, as does the child's mum. ""Opposite sex parenting gives children examples of both masculinity and femininity in action, and the complementary interaction of these qualities enables them to grow up with a healthy and balanced view of life and relationships.' The good thing about straight marriages is that children learn how to relate to both sexes later in life by relating to both a mum and a dad as well as observing the way in which they relate to each other, whereas in same-sex marriage, sexual confusion will only increase within the minds of children, as well as encouraging dangerous sexual experimentation among the nation's youth. Children growing up in homosexual households have been shown to be more likely to experiment sexually, and as same-sex unions (as well as cohabitation) become the norm, this will only become more pronounced, producing more heartache, more children born out of wedlock, and more sexually transmitted diseases.Same-sex marriage definitely isn't in the best interest of children. And although we empathise with those homosexuals who long to be married and parent children, we mustn't allow our compassion for them to trump our compassion for children. In a contest between the desires of some homosexuals and the needs of all children, we can't allow the children to lose. Thank you, apologies for the rough mistakes. Bibliography 1) http://www.renewamerica.com... 2) www.tfpstudentaction.org 3) www.theotherteam.com 4) atheism.about.com 5) www.theguardian.com 6) www.blameitonthevoices.com"	CON	15
15	Sa6458ad5-A54360c15	Illegal Immigrants should be deported, anchor babies or not.	"""I am aware, the studies behind that article refer to both legal and illegal migrants. Also can you show a serous reason to separate the two?"" Illegal immigrants have not immigrated legally, usually don't acquire citizenship, and live in the shadows. If an illegal immigrant gets in a car crash, they will be driving away and you have to pay for it. ""To claim that illegal immigrants don't pay tax is entirely false, most forms of tax are unavoidable."" Illegal immigrants of some kinds are not used to paying taxes. If they didn't pay taxes in Mexico, will they pay them here? Illegals, as I said, live in the shadows, and pay much less, if any taxes. ""(Gangs and drug cartels) are irrelevant to the immigrants."" False, if we have open borders (Which we pretty much do right now), they can come across with no consequences and continue their crimes in America. ""the US has a moral obligation to take in citizens from poorer nations."" Sure, we do have that obligation. And yes, we should accept legal immigrants. However, ILLEGAL immigrants entering the country is unacceptable. They need to go through the process and become legal. Otherwise, you're basically asking for criminals to be in our country. Continuing Arguments: Illegal immigrants generally don't learn English. This means that we have millions of new people who speak Spanish and not English, meaning they cannot communicate with a lot of the population. Illegals (and some legals, but that's beside the point) don't bother learning English. This could lead to American culture being damaged as a whole, since they choose not to assimilate into our culture. Most of my info comes from: Adios, America! by Ann Coulter"	PRO	16
16	S2933777c-A6c7d1bc5	The monarchy should be abolished in the UK	Thank you wolfhaines for your reply. You say that the monarchy costs the UK nothing but then why does it say in my BBC source that the royal family cost the taxpayer ï¿½40 000 000 in 2008 {http://news.bbc.co.uk...}. Secondly from your argument I now understand that the monarchy do contribute a lot to the British government through events such as weddings and funerals but those events aren't a daily occurrence. Yes the monarchy does generate millions from tourism and other things but why would tourists come to the UK just because it is still a monarchy? according to wikipedia the top 4 International tourist arrivals by country of destination 2010 were France, The USA, China and Spain 3 of these countries have no monarchy {http://en.wikipedia.org...}. are you saying that tourists wouldn't visit the UK if it weren't still a monarchy? there are dozens of reasons tourists visit the UK. According to walletpop.co.uk the royal wedding will cost us around 50 to 100 million pounds. this money coming from the taxpayers pocket of course. {http://www.walletpop.co.uk...} why should we be paying for the royal wedding when the monarchy can clearly afford it? Yes the Wedding will generate hundred of millions for us but businesses have warned that creating consecutive four-day weekends in April may cost the economy 5 billion pounds. {http://www.telegraph.co.uk...} In my last argument I said that the monarchy has no place in __MODERN__British society. you argued that without the monarchy there would be no Britain only Scotland, England and Wales but your wikipedia source shows that the 1707 act of union was a parliamentary act not act of the monarchy and to be honest with you wolfhaime I would be in support of no United Kingdom (but that is another topic altogether). as I said in my last argument the monarchy's duties are all handled by the British government so what is the point of keeping them? To generate money for the UK? A question I'd like to ask you wolfhaime is why should the monarchy if they have no powers in our society today and are simply figureheads be regarded as such important people? it it because of their family history? hardly seems fair. what separates the queen from the homeless man on the street? Not much apart from millions of pounds and family history.	PRO	17
17	Sbf9475f7-A5cbbcd6e	gay marrige should be legalizzed	"I thank my opponent for making the opening statement Vocabulary to get clear: 1. a legally, religiously, or socially sanctioned union of persons who commit to one another, forming a familial and economic bond:Anthropologists say that some type of marriage has been found inevery society, past and present. 2. the act of committing the act of committing, pledging, or engaging oneself. engagement; involvement: ex:They have a sincere commitment to religion. Marriage is a commitment pledging to each other,marriages fail in straight marriages as they do in gay-marriage but this isn""t a reason to bann gay marriage as little that it is to bann straight marriage.divorce rates have grown over time,but even knowing this amny coupels are ready to risk it all in marriage,if they get divorce they coud lose homes hafe to share everything they have but they are ready to risk it all because they sincerely belief that they are marring the love of there lifes . Sure there are people how only mary for money but it always has been like that so think about that why should to people that marry for money have more right to live together then a gay coupel how honestly love each other. So that""s my answer to my opponents Remarque that gay coupels shoud not get married because it is not real love. My opponent makes a Remarque that if marriage isn""t only for men and women we would have passed a point where it would be okay to marry almost anything. First do you really belief that ? In our society marriage without consent is Tabo ,so how is an animal,an object be supposed to marry each other .how are they even supposed to give their concept . I don""t now about you but I have never seen object talk or an other animal than humans.Of course there is a stopping point marriage is a signed it""s a document . Objects,animals and children (pedophilie) aren""t allowed to sign legal documents, so no we will not have people marring animals or objects. Marriage can only occur: between human adults that can sign a official document. Polygamie is acceptebel in other societies try to fashion marriage in a Christian manneris diminishing the other religions.laws shoud not be made according to religion. My opponent also makes a point that gay marriages shoud not be abel to adopt children .thats an other debate entirely the question of this debate is should gay coupels be abel to marry not adopt children. Sources:I will put the sources of all my claims in my final statement."	PRO	18
18	S84f999d5-A8ec3778e	Resolved: Medical Marijuana should be legal	My first debate! Round 1: Acceptance I think Medical Marijuana should be legal and ther are many benefits. Definitions: Marijuana - Marijuana (marihuana) Cannabis sativa L., also known as Indian hemp, is a member of the Cannabaceae or hemp family, thought to have originated in the mountainous districts of India, north of the Himalayan mountains. http://medical-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com... LETS DO THIS!	PRO	19
19	S8e58c781-A63bec42f	should illgle immagrants be allowed citezenship	I'm not against immigration thank you very much. I'm against illegal immigration. illegal immagrants take up jobs that are for us that are legal and thanks to Obama we have less jobs and they are taking them, and i live in Colorado were there are a lot of illegal immigrants here because we are really close to Texas and Arizona, and this is true because i have friends that are illegal immigrants. now i think that immigrants that were brought here illegally when they were small children should be granted citizen ship because they had no choice, because they were children. this is my closing argument.	CON	20
20	Sc8d9f8d2-A88e46fa7	Murder should be legalised	"Oh good, another essay for me to read. If you truly want to debate, keep it concise, I'm sick of these responses simply copied and pasted from a wiki page; very original. Think of it this way: do you want your children/grandchildren to live in a suitable environment? Just a few years of killing should do the trick. No ramifications. Just a clear, bright future for us all to enjoy. Oh yes, you're completely ahead in this debate. I couldn't even be bothered reading past the first website reference. I know what murder means you imbecile, I wrote it in my initial proposition. What is this? Did you just get ""Being an Attorney for Dummies"" at the bookstore, and rip out a couple of pages? It's just that age old debate, of one man or an entire race. Do you want your relatives now to die, so that millions, even billions can live later on? Perhaps not, but simple minds think alike, and I'm starting to get tired."	PRO	21
21	Sa6458ad5-Ac6a73839	Illegal Immigrants should be deported, anchor babies or not.	"""Illegal immigrants have not immigrated legally, usually don't acquire citizenship, and live in the shadows. If an illegal immigrant gets in a car crash, they will be driving away and you have to pay for it."" I showed a study that showed that immigrants if anything reduced the crime rate, do you have a source that shows what you claim? ""Illegal immigrants of some kinds are not used to paying taxes. If they didn't pay taxes in Mexico, will they pay them here? Illegals, as I said, live in the shadows, and pay much less, if any taxes."" My point was that much tax is unavoidable so it's meaningless if they choose to pay it or not and much of that money they don't pay goes to fuel the economy anyway and so will end up as tax. ""False, if we have open borders (Which we pretty much do right now), they can come across with no consequences and continue their crimes in America."" No this debate was over the migrants not the larger consequences of having an insecure border with a developing nation. Therefore this is irrelevant. ""Sure, we do have that obligation. And yes, we should accept legal immigrants. However, ILLEGAL immigrants entering the country is unacceptable. They need to go through the process and become legal. Otherwise, you're basically asking for criminals to be in our country."" The legal process is exceptionally difficult, I suggest you look at what it actually takes to get a US visa [1] let alone a permanent one. Most people have no choice but to live in mexico in poverty or violate US law in order to seek a better life. ""Illegal immigrants generally don't learn English. This means that we have millions of new people who speak Spanish and not English, meaning they cannot communicate with a lot of the population. Illegals (and some legals, but that's beside the point) don't bother learning English. This could lead to American culture being damaged as a whole, since they choose not to assimilate into our culture."" Culture is not a static entity to be protected but rather it is a fluid entity that takes in new circumstances and adapts to them. However I would point out that the US integrated large numbers of Spanish speakers before. In the 1840s the US annexed most of northern Mexico (basically what now makes up the south west US) in the Mexican American war. Today the descendants of those who lived in the annexed land are fully integrated with american culture and I would be shocked if any still spoke Spanish fluently. In fact most were integrated by the end of the civil war just 20 years later and I doubt this has had a negative (or even significant) impact on US culture. [1] http://london.usembassy.gov..."	CON	22
22	S2933777c-A66f470c1	The monarchy should be abolished in the UK	Perhaps you did not understand my first point in Round One, so I shall explain it again. The Crown Estates gives all of its surplus to the treasury (ï¿½256million), in return the treasury gives the royal family what it needs (ï¿½40million), so the taxpayers are in profit by ï¿½210million. Why you then failed to take this into account when reiterating your point again is not clear. I disproved your view that the monarchy is costing the taxpayers money, so to try and make the same claim again isn't getting you anywhere. You second point from Round Two is interesting, as believe it or not that supports my point. The UK is not in the top 4 tourist destinations, it does not have constant nice weather, it does not have beaches and clear blue waters, it also does not have a range of geophysical zones ranging from deserts to rainforests (all of which are recognised as important factors for tourism). What it does have is the worlds most famous, and most photographed monarchy. To take the monarchy out of the equation is going to push us further down the list, and lose us money. How can you claim in your first point that the monarchy helps create tourism income, then try and claim in your second point that without them we wouldn't lose money? It is not logical. Then your third point- the royal wedding is going to cost the taxpayers ï¿½50-ï¿½100million. Well seeing as I have already proved the UK taxpayer is making over ï¿½200million profit from the Crown Estates alone, that still leaves a profit of ï¿½100million. That does not take into account the income generated from the sales boost the royal wedding will have, and the increase in tourism it will have, all of which provides even more income. To put it simply- we have more chance of the Olympics causing the taxpayers a loss in money than we have in the royal wedding causing a loss in money. Are you calling for the Olympics to be moved elsewhere? Of course not. You tried to work around my third point of the royals not being out of place in British society, by using the semantics of 'modern British society'. But again, my third point in Round One disproved this, as all the surveys I supplied were taken in MODERN Britain, which means that modern Britain likes, wants, and can relate to the monarchy. So to restate this same point is still getting you nowhere. It is also clear that you do not realise that the idea of a Republic is far older than even Christianity, so that is hardly modern itself. In fact, the system of a Constitutional Monarchy is a newer concept than that of a Republic. So if we want to use semantics we can say our system is more modern than adopting a Republic. The monarchy's duties are performed by government are they? So being an ambassador of trade for Britain is handled by a government official? Or being the head of the Church of England is handled by a government official? My point is simple. Government and the Monarchy separated hundreds of years ago, they have had different roles since then. To try and claim that the current monarchy is suppose to have the roles of a far distant monarchy is nonsensical. Perhaps you should remove yourself from the idea of an absolute monarchy, and bring yourself to the reality of our monarchy. The Archbishop of Canterbury has no real power, but he is seen as important. The head of Oxfam has no real power, but they are seen as important. Ghandi, Mother Teressa, Albert Einstein, the list goes on. You're essentially saying that importance only comes with power, which goes against your attempt to compare a homeless man on the street with the Queen. My family history stretches back hundreds of years, in fact, it stretches back hundreds of thousands of years, as does yours. Does that mean we should be exiled? It is very clear that your argument is based around resentment of wealth, especially that of passing wealth on to children. Hate to break it to you, but thousands of millionaires and billionaires do that every year, should we abolish inheritance full stop? Of course not. Seeing as the Queen cannot vote, and is impartial on political matters, she is actually less of a threat to the people of the UK than a multi-millionaire such as Lord Ashcroft, who actively pumped millions into the Conservative Party in the run up to the 2010 election. The influence that his wealth brings, without the checks and balances that the monarchy has, is far more immoral than that of the Queen. It is also very clear that I have already disproved your three points, so no matter how much you retype them, it isn't going to make them true.	CON	23
23	S8e58c781-Ac1d46bc1	should illgle immagrants be allowed citezenship	i think that all illigles should be sent right backk to were they came from. i think this because if you live in a lower state you have to get special shots because of all the illigles coming from mexico. i dont know about you but i don't like getting more shots. plus all the illigles are taking up the jobs a legal american could have which puts more american citezens in to poverty. how would you feel if you went in for a job interview and some illigle took the job before you could. also the illigles dont have to pay taxes wich means they can can live in a house and not have to pay taxes on it wich can also hurt our economy. the people that want to come here sould have to wait like everybody else to come here legaley.	CON	24
24	S397892cd-Aaddae106	Should the United States have stricter immigration laws.	My main reason for why I believe the U.S should have stricter immigration laws is because we don't know who is coming into our country and some of them could be trying to harm our country.	PRO	25
25	Sfe7366cf-A1ca50e58	God should be brought into schools more.	Since we are talking about God, we are saying God as a person, therefore g on God should be capitalized. There are gods, but we are using God as the creator of Earth. God as in the king of all gods. Also God comes with Christianity. Therefore letting us pray in school and have certain rights. Same basic rules, no vulgar language etc etc. but most importantly no attacking my beliefs. You can say he isn't real, just nothing like calling me an idiot for believing it or trying to prove me wrong that he exists. Definition for Christian: a person that confesses with their mouth and believes in their heart that God is coming back for all of us, and believes in his existence.	PRO	26
26	Sfe7366cf-A1e5bb0e1	God should be brought into schools more.	"As this is a policy debate I am assuming that my opponent is not talking about private schools where God may be incorporated into the curriculum or school activities, and my opponent means that God should be brought into public schools. My opponent also seems to be specifically advocating schools to incorporate the Christian God specifically into their schools. Now I will start out this debate and show why public schools ought to stay completely secular with no supporting or showing favor to religious ideas(namely the Christian God). I will first cite the first amendment as it pertains to religion. ""Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion"" This means that the government legally cannot favor any type of religion or non-religion in a publicly funded school. I believe this is all that is needed to effectively show why bringing God into schools is a gross violation of the Constitution."	CON	27
27	S5501e83e-A56d5acb1	Terminally ill patients should be given the option of assisted death	"The poll that you have shared in your argument shows a great point. 82% of those people agreed with the fact that terminally ill people should have the right to assisted death. You said that a lot of people simply agree with what the majority think, however in the poll above, it does not state whether or not the people involved knew the other candidates choice or if it was a private vote. If it were a private vote, then your statement could be considered invalid for this particular argument. Yes, the majority of people ( I would hope everyone would agree with this) want rape to be illegal, and it is, as it should be. So is murder and robbery. However you can look at murder and assisted death as two different things. Yes, they both involve ending someone's life, but murder is done illegaly, violently, and without the consent of the person being murdered. Where in assisted death, it could be done legaly, non violent, and with the consent of the person who wants it done. There are terminally ill patients who don't wish to end their life even with all the pain and suffering they are going through. And that is perfectly fine. If assisted death is legalized, it wont be forced on the patient. It is only an option that is open to them. Yes , there are treatments for depression, which can occur in terminally, and non terminally ill patients. But we are talking about the physical pain caused by the illness, not the mental. Even though that is just as important. People who want to die are considered mentally unwell when there is no physical pain involved with that feeling. When you are talking about a terminal patient wanting to die, you see it more as they are in physical pain, and nothing can fix it. Terminally ill patients and physically healthy patients with a mental disorder who want to end their life are two different things. A mental disorder can be treated with medicine, and if the proper steps are taken to help this person such as therapy, are taken, they won""t die from it. They are not given an amount of time they have left to live because if correctly handled they could live for a long time and not die from the illness, but of old age. A terminal patient, however, can only be treated with so much medication, and they are given an amount of time they have left to live. They cannot stop death from coming. They cannot end the pain they will feel as the disease progresses. There is always a point to finding a cure. The people who are terminally ill now, might not have the time to see that cure. But as we continue to search for the cure, why should we let those who don't have the chance to see it, suffer? Cancer is an illness that has been around for ages. At one point it had no way of being treated, but now it does. Some cancers are still looking for a cure. Just because assisted death becomes an option, doesn't mean we stop looking for cures. It only means that until then, we don""t let the people with the disease suffer. We give them the option to stop it. Like I said in my last argument. It is only a guess at how much time the terminally ill patient has left. As for the video, if you actually sit down and listen to what is being said, you can see and hear how this illness effects not only the mom, but the family. Yes, the son said he doesn't want her to die, but who wants to see a loved one die? And as for the daughter, what she says is that she has been there through the whole illness, from the diagnoses to the time she is at now where she is bedridden and cannot do anything but talk. She says that before her mom's illness took over, they used to be able to go places, have plans, do things together that not only the daughter enjoyed, but the mom as well. And now because of the illness, the mom cannot do anything. What she was saying was not because she WANTS her mom to die, but because she doesn't want her to suffer any longer. I encourage everyone who is following this debate to watch the video. It is only 3 minutes long, but it is perfect for my part of the debate. You can understand all the emotions going through the patient and their family. She doesn't want to end her life for the solo reason being that it is an option, because if you listen to her speak, you will know that at this time, it is not an option. She is in pain. She doesn't want to live like this, she doesn't want to get to the point in her life where she is answering people with blink once for yes and twice for no. Terminally ill children have the right to make a decision about their health as well, even though a parent can override their choice. A child who is terminally tends to have a higher maturity level then a healthy child due to the circumstances. In the video I have linked below it shows a 5 year old girl who is terminally ill. Her parents gave her the decision to choose heaven or hospital for the next time she gets sick. https://youtu.be... Medicine trials are what i was referring to. When a medicine is released and in a trial period, it is only given to those who fit the criteria. Not every patient can get it. It takes time for the medicine to be processed and used in daily medicine. If the patient decides to end their life, and a cure is near to being found that can be used on that patient, they would be informed before they made the final decision to end their life. Sure the patient could have more time to spend with family if they decided not to choose assisted death, but if the patient chooses assisted death, they know when they will die, and they will know how much time they have left to spend with their family. In the link below is an article about a 29 year old woman who has brain cancer. In this article it tells you everything that I have been saying, or have tried to tell you. It is a great article with a lot of good points that I believe not only you should read, but everyone else as well. http://www.cnn.com... Mentally ill patients are not the only ones who cannot wait to die. If someone is terminally ill, they want to die because of the pain they are in, and because it is their choice to decide how they want their life to end. Sure not everyone knows when and how they will die, but in the cases of those who do now, and they now they are dying because of an incurable illness, why not give them the option to end the pain and give them the choice of when to end it? As for taking a terminally ill patient on a road trip, that is not a good idea. If they are at the end stages of life, then their immune system will have trouble fighting off viruses. At that point, something as simple as a cold, could kill them. It is also may be physically impossible to take a terminally ill patient on a road trip. If they are in a lot of pain, they could also have a hard time enjoying the things around them."	PRO	28
28	Sef54dc89-A98cac0bb	Donald Trump should be the next US president	I believe Donald Trump could and should be the next president of The United States of America because of his devout Conservative/Libertarian Views (Personal & Economic Freedom whilst Conserving The American Status Quo) issues, his political incorrectness, unique opinions, cocky attitude and way of defying what the people want. But of course, I don't agree with all things Trump has said and claims he will do.	PRO	29
29	S17e94e37-A43e5fe89	Why Marijuana is not good to smoke and should be illegal	I would like to start this debate with platypus666, as she states 'It is good to smoke weed.' I also would like to state many ways of how marijuana should be illegal and how it is bad for your health. It is good to smoke weed. Rules No trolling. No harassment. No content that is inappropriate.	PRO	30
30	S8e58c781-Aacefdde3	should illgle immagrants be allowed citezenship	"How is an immigrant (albeit an illegal one) so different from an American Citizen? So long as they pay taxes like everyone else, how are they anymore detrimental to society? All immigrants want is a chance to gain a brighter future through hard work, they aren't looking for the easy way out. In fact, it makes far more sense to grant illegal immigrants full citizenship, because illegal immigrants don't have to pay taxes, and citizens do. If you give an illegal immigrant citizenship, then you guarantee that they pay taxes to the United States Government. The immigration policy is far more complicated than many might be led to assume. An honest foreigner will have a hard time getting into America as a citizen. Despite the fact that on our symbol of freedom: The Statue of Liberty; it states, ""Give us your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free."" America should be the land of opportunity for those who so desperately need a chance to restart their lives in a new place."	PRO	31
31	Sfe7366cf-Abe1887e0	God should be brought into schools more.	"//""But you have to see that by taking our religion out. Is favoring the other.""// Taking religion out of school does exactly that, it takes religion our of school so that there is no favoring of any specific religion. My opponent has not shown a single religion which is favored by keeping religion out of school and will not find one. //""Allowing us not to pray, is taking our religion OUT of schools....so that makes room for other beliefs.""// That is exactly what it does and I will not argue about that. And it does not make room for other beliefs as if it's a religion, it is kept out of school. I challenge my opponent to find one religion which is favored by this. //""Public schools don't teach creation, but evolution is.""// Public schools do not teach creationism because there is no Bible class in a secular public school. Creationism is not actually science and therefore has no place in a science class. Evolution is a non-religious scientific theory. People of all religions and non-religion accept and deny evolution's validity. If my opponent can show why evolution is inherently connected to any religion then he would be right that it should not be taught in schools. However he will not be able to do this as the theory of evolution was created, tested, and verified independent of any religion. My opponent has yet to show why favoring the Christian god in schools would not be a violation of the Constitution."	CON	32
32	S64a697e7-A35b425b4	assisted suicide should be legalized	"the day i first read about assisted suicide, i was stunned i coundn't even imagine why someone would want to ""legaly"" end his days. it just soound absurd for three reasons. first, only GOD has the last word on whether or not your time has came. this shouldn't be seen only religiously, but also with logic. there is no way you can take such a decision without even thinking about whethe or not you have that power, since you didn't have any in choosing when you will be born. and so, it's just absud to choose when you will dye. the second point is that most f the time the reason why opting for assisted suicide is because people don't want to bear paint anymore. step back a minute an think. someone is very sick, we know he is going to died and everything seems so dark. it's more than normal the he will want to suicide himself just to run away form the pain. but comitting such an act is not just refusing that wonderful gift that is life, it s also running away and rufusing your responsabilities. for someone really grown up, it's understandable that pain is a normal phase in life, even that pain can show how strong or how weak we are. let's us not show that we are weak, please. last but not least, assisted suicide is the perfect pretext for families not to spend money on a dying brother or sister. money is so pretious and important ot our eyes that we are ready to give up on our family just for a few more cents. i am not saying that money isn't a good thing, but just that it make people forget the love they have for their close ones. for these three reasons, i stand in firm opposition to ha ving this law passed in any state and country. it's immoral and we are not the one choosing when we dye."	CON	33
33	S5501e83e-A2e579152	Terminally ill patients should be given the option of assisted death	"5000 people took part in a poll whereby 82% supported Lord Falconer""s Assisted Dying Bill to give terminally ill, mentally competent people the legal option of assistance to die with dignity, 79% of people were religious. 44% of people even said they'd break the law and face 14 years in prison to help someone end their life. [1] A lot of people simply agree with what the majority think, however if the majority of people want rape to be illegal it doesn't mean it should be, if the majority want murder and robbery to be legal should it? The majority are not always right. My first point I made in round two is that there are a considerable number of people who are terminally ill who don't wish to die. It doesn't matter if it's not above 50%, the fact is it is possible to be terminally ill, in chronic pain, and believe that life still has meaning and value, and is worth living. Negative feelings like depression, and despair can and should be treated. There are many different treatments, not just drugs e.g. talking helps. A healthy person will want to live. People who want to die are mentally unwell, allowing someone to make a decision to end their life when in such a mental state is irresponsible. You say the main reasons patients want to die is due to their pain and them thinking they should have a right to choose. However we should be encouraging people to live no matter the degree of suffering, and encourage cures and better treatments. If we legalize assisted suicide then there is no point trying to find better treatments because the answer to pain and suffering is to just kill people. Surely it is wrong to take away people's hopes and wrong to tell people they should kill them self. In the below video, a doctor gave a terminally ill person 3-5 years to live, she is alive 8 years later. Her son likes to see her, and see him succeed yet she wants to end her life. It is selfish to kill yourself when you are loved, and everyone is loved. Her daughter is selfish too, she says her mother only has her voice, that's it, and doesn't want to see her mum suffering so wants her mum to kill herself. Her daughter says she had plans but not anymore, this must make her mother feel guilty and a burden. Nobody should feel this way. Perhaps she was saying those things to inherit money sooner. Whatever her reason she was only thinking of herself. This terminally ill woman only wants to end her life because the option exists. If it didn't exist her daughter wouldn't say those horrible things that make her mum feel like her life has no value or meaning anymore. How can the younger generation believe life has meaning when they don't believe there is when you're older or disabled? What happens when a child is terminally ill? A child isn't old enough to make decisions for them self, is it okay for a parent to choose for them? It is illegal to freeze someone who is still alive because cryotechnology is in its infancy but things can change quickly, it doesn't necessarily take 7 years, have you considered medical trials? Also it will one day in the near future be possible to store a person's consciousness on a computer chip and upload it into a robot. Who knows what the future holds. Imagine if you told someone you love that they should kill themself and a day later you find they didn't have to die, and here was a way they could have been saved from their illness, you could never forgive yourself. You don't need to believe that terminally ill patients should be given the option of assisted death in order to acknowledge they are suffering, or to show you care. You say that a patient who chooses when they die is given time to spend with loved ones, wouldn't they have more time to spend with them if they didn't kill themself? Why is it so important to know how much time you have? Most people don't know how long they have to live, who would want to know? Only a mentally ill person would look forward to dying, and providing them a date to look forward to prevents them from enjoying life, seeing the positive side. Decisions should not be based on fear, such decisions are irrational. Saving people from having a small chance of witnessing someone die slowly and painfullly is not taking the terminally ill person's feelings into consideration. People don't have an obligation to die in a way that doesn't cause distress to those who are unfortunate to watch helplessly. People should not be expected to kill themselves ever. Of course, if you tell someone they should kill themself like in the video I showed, you are saying that the persons life is no longer worth living. If it were worth living you wouldn't tell them to kill themself. Who are they to say whether someone else's life is worth living anyway? I don't understand how someone can feel incompetent as a result of not being allowed to have help killing themself, they'd definitely feel incompetent if they have help though as there are people who kill themselves without any help. Negative emotions lead to a weakened immune system [2]. This makes the body more vulnerable to illnesses including those which are terminal. Options can't control illness. Legalizing assisted death will no doubt cause more terminal illnesses. No-one can feel good about helping someone die, or receiving a time when a person can expect to die. A terminally ill patient may be visited more often in a shorter space of time, but any visitors will find it harder to be their self or enjoy the time they have with someone whose time of death they know. Would people use bereavement services after a terminally ill person's death? You mention that a terminally ill person is not the same person people once knew, and we should be sad when people can no longer do the things they used to do, but the truth is there are many things they can do which can bring a smile to their face like road trips, and maybe things they haven't done. They will only become unfamiliar if you tell them their life has no meaning or value because if they are depressed it is more difficult to overcome that. The fear of death will rise if terminally ill people can have help killing themself, as people will not be able to focus on enjoying their own life when they know the time and place someone close will die. What if a terminally ill person can't gulp the poisonous drink at the last moment? That would spread fear of death especially if you become terminally ill yourself. Having a date gives you time to fear death which you would normally not have to worry about. sources: [1] http://www.dignityindying.org.uk... [2] https://www.newscientist.com..."	CON	34
34	S5501e83e-A2d31706c	Terminally ill patients should be given the option of assisted death	"We should give terminally ill patients physiological care, not the option to kill themself: ""A scientific study of people with terminal illness published in the American Journal of Psychiatry found that fewer than one in four expressed a wish to die, and all of those who did had clinically diagnosable depression.... Effective psychotherapeutic treatment is possible with the terminally ill"" [1] My opponent says there is no treatment available when drugs don't work, but pain can be managed, and in the worst case scenario a person can be frozen until a cure is found. Letting someone give up on hope is wrong, It is also wrong to put someone in a position where they have to help someone end their life. No-one can accurately say how long someone has to live, and whether a cure will be found in time. We should not give up on anybody or have a negative view of life. People who don't want someone to die who want to spend more time with someone are not selfish, they love that person, and love is not selfish. Women may say if you love/respect me you'll do this or that. But doing what they tell you to do i.e. ""respecting their choice"" would end a relationship with them, as respect is not shown by simply doing what someone wants you to. Telling a terminally ill person that you understand their pain and will let a doctor kill them is the same. You are not actually respecting their choice. Think about the message it would send to everyone else if it were legal to assist someone in killing them self, you'd be saying that a disabled person's life is less precious when in fact all life is equal and worth living. If assisted suicide is legal and considered okay, people are more likely to feel a burden to other people due to there being an option to end their life. People will have less respect for life especially disabled or older people, which leads to misery, which leads to a weakened immune system, which then leads to illness. So basically more people will be terminally ill if it is legal for someone to assist someone killing them self. If you want less people to suffer then assisting someone to kill them self should remain illegal. My opponent says 'They are no longer the person you once knew' which I think devalues terminally ill people. Everyone changes, no-one can be like before, pain is what makes us who we are, and is the reason we can be loved. A natural death is therefore something that no-one should fear. sources: [1] http://www.nrlc.org..."	CON	35
35	Sfe7366cf-Aef3d99d3	God should be brought into schools more.	"I don't think I can summarize my opponent's argument in a better wat than simply quoting it below. //""You have a school, lets say two religions for this example. It's 50/50. Stay with me. You take one completely out. Now its 50/0. That opens it for the remaining 50 or another belief. Now that makes it unfair. One is completely out. Even one is being taught. How is this not favoring one?""// I am not suggesting that only one religion be taken out of school. I am suggesting that ALL religions be taken out of school. Here is a quote of me saying this in R1. ""..public schools ought to stay completely secular with no supporting or showing favor to religious ideas"" I do not think that just one religion should be taken out while leaving in another. In order to be in accordance with the law, public schools cannot show favor to ANY religions whatsoever. So my opponent is clearly wrong in saying that one religion would be being favored. As my opponent brings no new arguments in the last round I will end here. I have completely and utterly refuted my opponent's argument that public schools shouls show favor to the Christian religion by simply citing the 1st amendment. My opponent has absolutely no argument and therefore I urge a Con vote."	CON	36
36	S64a697e7-Acc5ff507	assisted suicide should be legalized	I am your opponent and I will be against your stance; I will be for the legalization of assisted suicide, or euthanasia, and I will refute all of your arguments. Opponent is obviously Catholic of Christian, and lacks sources, evidence, and logic/reasoning. I will find this debate an easy one to accomplish. Audience, please vote for pro - we can already tell who is going to win in this debate, so there is almost no point in debating. But, for the sake of opponent, I will debate with you and refute all of your arguments effectively. It appears that, based on your writing style and content, you lack knowledge, skill, and experience in making an effective debate with such poor writing structure. First off, you make many spelling and grammar mistakes that even a child in middle school would not make. You state that it is absurd for three reasons - what? Is this a debate or elementary language class? You don't have to write that, and while that is the format of an essay, the style of your writing is too simple and inferior to even qualify for a debate. Also, your arguments are weak and base them on reasoning and logic used by those ignorant of science and law. You lack any evidence or sources to back up your claims, and the ideas for each argument is too weak. I am sorry, but if you continue to debate like this, I will forfeit this debate as a result of your inferior debating skills compared to even a beginner in debating. As for your arguments, I will still be refuting them; whether or not you understand them (due to your obvious lack of debating skill), will not be an excuse for countering my arguments. You claim that only God has the right to determine if you should die. Yet opponent does not think first if opponent is atheist, agnostic, spiritual, or even of other religions. As stated in my other debate, rights can be taken away, are superficial, and are completely made up by intelligent life forms. Clearly God is not an intelligent life form as He is a divine creator; clearly, He is natural and therefore cannot make rights as they are man-made and can be taken away. Besides that, you also claim that logically speaking, death is pre-determined by a variety of natural factors and shouldn't be determined by humans because they lack the knowledge and power. You are completely wrong - humans can choose when to die (that's why suicidal people and murderers exist) and they do have the power as long as they get the consent and have the means to assist the said person in suicide. With your other arguments, they are too weak, irrational, and illogical to even refute. What does spending money have to do with this? I am sorry, but it is too vague, so please do explain it in the comments. Also, what does survival of the fittest have to do with being responsible for dying patients? Yes, ending their lives so you may not have to bear pain is seen as weak, but that is not an effective argument to convince the law to illegalize euthanasia. I hope for the best in you as your debating skills are extremely terrible as a child's.	PRO	37
37	Sbf9475f7-Ab010fa6d	gay marrige should be legalizzed	"Firstly, I know English isn't your first language, but please, do revise over what you are saying, or at least use spell-checker, as I have had to re-read your arguments multiple times, in order to simply comprehend what you are trying to get across, still, thank you. I will now proceed with my arguments, to further, refute. Firstly, the definition of marriage, is, the formal union of a man, and a women, typically recognised by law. What I intend to say is that your source is 'dictionary.com' however my sources are two oxford dictionaries. I believe the definition you hold, is in fact, the only definition that supports your position of this debate. Other then that, browse on merrian-webster's dictionary, Google itself, when you search 'marriage define', as well as Collins, they all state, something close to ""the formal union of a man, and a women, typically recognised by law"". This is just for clarification. Just for elucidation, are you trying to purpose to me, that the divorces occurring in straight marriages, are the same amount as gay, because if so, this statement is wrong. I understand that there ARE divorces occurring in straight marriages, but the amount in gay, are incomparable. Below, I have an image which shows the divorce rate of gay marriages,[1] in legalised places. I don't know, what you are trying to say, but compare this, with how in USA, the marriage rate in 6.8 per 1, 000 total population, and the divorce rate, as 3.6 per 1, 000 population within straight marriages [2]. Divorces occur because of some problem(s) occurring in the two persons relationship, now, as we see how high the rates for the gay marriages are, I can prove that gay marriages do not have true love, just an illusion of it. Secondly, my opponent, also states, that gay marriages would not lead to people wanting to marry objects, or multiple people, or animals, with some strange reasons. Think more advancing Ly, if people think gay marriages are okay, and they change the laws through democracy, and they do what they feel is right, then in the future, why not marry an animal? It is alive, it holds a lot of value in this world, but... I feel true love for it, now, we may, luckily, still have the sense to know that this is wrong, but in another 100 years, if gay marriages are accepted, then this will be debated on, if you go back in the fifth century, you may say that their thinking wasn't as advanced as it is now, but you say that you were gay... they would treat you as a special child, simply because gay marriages, are just an illusion of love, no religion, states that gay marriages are right, expect for atheism, but they don't state its right to be gay. I mean to say, that we see gay Christians. Now, as they are Christians, I will use the bible as a source, which states gay marriages are wrong. Finally, my opponent states that my final point was irrelevant to this debate. Now, what I am trying to say is that because of gay marriages, children are getting negative and confused understandings of how we should live our lives. Children, like me, 13-year old kids like me, may get the wrong influences, they won't understand things. Do you want children to get a bad impact on their lives, to get negative influences, the kids that are the future of this world, or, do you want gay people to marry and ruin everyone else's lives? Thank you. Apologises for the mistakes. Bibliography 1) http://online.wsj.com... 2)http://www.cdc.gov..."	CON	38
38	S5501e83e-A592c12ce	Terminally ill patients should be given the option of assisted death	I will begin this debate by defining Terminal Illness. A Terminal illness is a disease that cannot be cured or treated and that is reasonably expected to result in the death of the patient ( most terminal patients have about 6 months to live ). With that definition you can see that there is no treatment for a patient who is considered terminal. The only thing they can do is sit and wait to die. In that time there pain will worsen. There are few things that doctors can do to help the patient. They could place them on a respirator to help them breath or they can give them drugs to ease the pain. However as the disease progresses the drugs will no longer help the pain. That is why assisted death should be an option. Imagine you had a loved one with terminal cancer. The doctors told you they had six months to live, and they are now in there 5 month of being diagnosed. They are in so much pain it hurts them to even move an inch, and the drugs the doctors have them on are no longer working. They want to die. What would you do? To not let them die because you want to spend more time with them would be selfish and inhumane. They are in pain. They are no longer the person you once knew. If they where given the option of assisted death and they wanted it, you should respect that. http://www.lonestar.edu... https://en.m.wikipedia.org...	PRO	39
39	S5501e83e-A5790d624	Terminally ill patients should be given the option of assisted death	"Nearly three quarters of British people are in favour of legalising assisted suicide, almost all said they could imagine opting for assisted suicide themselves if they ever suffered from an incurable illness, serious disability or uncontrollable pain [1]. The reason the majority support assisted death is because they only think of their self, they probably think it is comforting having that choice just in case. But they have not really thought it through and probably just think they would be gaining a right. They may even think that such a belief shows they are more compassionate than others. People think those who want rape to be legal are rapists etc, even though making rape legal would significantly reduce rape as women would be more responsible. People are usually more bothered about how they are perceived than implications of a law. People already have the right to refuse treatment, they don't have to be hooked to a life support machine and suffer or even take medication. They can have a dignified death already [2]. Deathwithdignity.org says ""The patient""s primary objective is not to end an otherwise open-ended span of life, but to find dignity in an already impending exit from this world. They""re participating in an act to shorten the agony of their final hours, not killing themselves; cancer (or another common underlying condition) is killing them."" However a dignified death can be achieved without killing yourself. And how can killing yourself make you worthy of respect? The answer is it can't. Fearful people will tell you anything. The message sent to people suffering with depression is that suicide is okay sometimes. If you ask anybody if they think suicide should be legal, the answer will be no way. So why do so many believe in assisted death? It is because they are told that Physician-assisted dying isn""t suicide legally, morally or ethically, and that patients are already dying and therefore are not choosing death over life but one form of death over another. [3] These are yet more lies, of course drinking something that you know will kill you is suicide whether you are terminally ill or not. It is also wrong to discriminate by allowing some people but not others the right to kill them self. Everyone is equal and should be treated as such. Supporters of assisted suicide may tell you that paralyzed people can't kill themself, and should be given the same ""right"" as other people even though no-one has a right to commit suicide. What we should do is encourage people to enjoy the life they have, and not give up hope or be miserable or waste their life. If cancer patients kill themselves rather than undergo treatment, then medical research to cure cancer is unnecessary and will not receive much funding. Suicide laws remove incentives to improve life, this is more important than trying to stop pain. It is true at one point cancer had no way of being treated, and people who could be saved will die because of an assisted death law. This is one reason why we shouldn't give up on hope. There are people who are terminally ill who can live many years longer than predicted and even those with weeks to live can enjoy life, see video below In the video I showed in the previous round the son makes his mum feel bad by saying he doesn't feel happy progressing in life because her mum can't progress. Her daughter makes her feel worthless and a burden too, she says she doesn't want to see her mum suffer but instead of making her feel better she says she'd like her mum to die. Assisted death law causes family members to think they don't have to be strong for someone, and make it possible to make someone feel worthless without nobody saying a bad word to them. The mother's fear of blinking for yes or no is unrealistic like all fears are. It is wrong to enable people to reduce the quality of someone's life, so that it can end sooner in order to inherit something sooner or make life easier. Just because someone has a person's permission to do something doesn't mean they should. The little girl in the video made a choice based on a lie (just like those told they'll have a dignified death) about going to heaven and having to wait to see her parents in happy land. If children who are terminally ill can have assisted suicide, what's next? Will everyone be allowed to kill themselves? Will you even have a choice? Spending more time with family is better than dying sooner, you may die before a cure is found. I still don't know why it is so important to know exactly how long you have to spend with family and friends. Family members and friends will not be comforted, they will find it harder to enjoy their own life because they'll be counting the days down and have less time with someone they love. They'll feel guilty enjoying life when they could be spending time with someone with little time left. Assisted suicide means a lot of people will witness someone close die, it is unlikely they'd witness someone die if it were illegal, The 29 year old woman in your sources says ""My question is: Who has the right to tell me that I don't deserve this choice? That I deserve to suffer for weeks or months in tremendous amounts of physical and emotional pain? Why should anyone have the right to make that choice for me?"" - Clearly, she thinks that anyone who opposes assisted suicide wants her to suffer. The reality is no-one is making any decision to make her suffer, or saying she should suffer, people who oppose assisted suicide are just against her killing herself because they think she should enjoy life, and set an example to others i.e. show others that life is worth living. [1] http://www.dailymail.co.uk... [2] http://www.nhs.uk... [3] https://www.deathwithdignity.org..."	CON	40
40	S84f999d5-A930ed70e	Resolved: Medical Marijuana should be legal	"Ok due to it being the last round in this debate I will cut it short. I will end my case and continue by attacking my opponents case, then if space allows I will attempt to summarize the above debate. First, my entire case I ask to be flowed over. Second, starting with my opponents comment ""Add is ADHD its just generalized"" Ok first I am going to use my aunt as a source(she is in the medical profession) ""One is Hyperactive and the other is not"" by this she means that Add= Attention Deficit Disorder, Adhd= Attention Hyperactive Deficit Disorder. ""Yet cannabis is still not endorsed by pharmaceutical companies as a cancer cure, and since it is not promoted through mainstream channels, very few people are aware of its benefits. Consequently, it is not sought after as an alternative to disfiguring chemotherapy and other harmful drugs""(opponents case)"" as I had proven earlier in my case Some of marijuana's adverse health effects may occur because THC impairs the immune system's ability to fight off infectious diseases and cancer. In laboratory experiments that exposed animal and human cells to THC or other marijuana ingredients, the normal disease-preventing reactions of many of the key types of immune cells were inhibited(16). In other studies, mice exposed to THC or related substances were more likely than unexposed mice to develop bacterial infections and tumors. Now as you can see my opponent has failed to uphold the goal of trying to get everyone to agree that MJ should be legalized for medical reasons- My response to this was A. the person could get hooked B. people are more likely to develope the things that MJ is trying to cure. Since my opponents case is basically what I have addressed above the only last thing to bring up is: Methylphenidate- known as Ritalin. My opponent by bringing this up has basically endorsed it I am now saying: Methylphenidate may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: nervousness difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep dizziness nausea vomiting loss of appetite stomach pain diarrhea heartburn dry mouth headache muscle tightness uncontrollable movement of a part of the body restlessness numbness, burning, or tingling in the hands or feet decreased sexual desire painful menstruation And by my opponent saying that Queen Victoria used Meth(ritalin) for was to ease the pain of menstruation. As you the Judges can read it increases the pain of menstruation. Sources: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov... http://pr.cannazine.co.uk... my opponents case I do also want to say that by my opponent endorsing Methylphenidate they have just gone against what they have said in their ENTIRE case along with the Rebuttle. It is for the above reasons that I respectfully ask for a firm vote in negation of the resolution. Thanks again for leaving this debate open!"	CON	41
41	S397892cd-Aa3a7e943	Should the United States have stricter immigration laws.	In my opinion, I don't think immigrants are the reason many Americans losing jobs, but another factor (I don't expect Pro to rebute this, its jusy my opinion._ Money concentration: It has been repeatedly stated in recent years that the income inequality in the United States is the biggest it has been in a long time, the wealthy are getting wealthier and the poor are getting poorer. Corporations are more rapidly and aggressively buying up and swallowing small businesses, smashing struggling startups, and using their economic might to restrict new contenders from gaining a foothold in various industries through patents and so on. Companies are becoming greedy for profit, and are offering jobs at a very low price. When this happens, immigrants are the first ones to go, because they are more willing to work at lower prices. This isn't nessescariliy the immigrants fault, but the large corporations who need a labor force for cheap. Now to address your opinion, I do partially agree that people who enter this country should be required to speak English. However, I support taking another approach, such as providing them tuitions to learn the language so they can enter here without hardship in the future. Like I said before, what we must to do to prevent illegal immigrants is investing in stronger border patrol and keeping future aliens from entering. There are some illegals who have been living in this country for a long time, and have contributed alot to the economy. I think just making immigration tougher wil just discourage immigrants from coming at all here. And thank you for this debate.	CON	42
42	Sef54dc89-A33a2868c	Donald Trump should be the next US president	Ok so on the sources please ignore the ads and comments but anyway here is my argument. 1. Donald Trump would create a database on Muslims in the US similar to nazi Germany. (http://www.nbcnews.com...) and he doesn’t even deny that it would be comparable to Nazi Germany. Also according to your claim he is libertarian. I ask you, since libertarianism supports a small government and doesn’t like government overreach, how does this show libertarianism, it seems closer to fascism. This is also unjustified because Muslims don’t even commit most of the terrorist attacks http://www.thedailybeast.com... 2. Donald Trump wants to make a border fence, make Mexico pay for it (though they wouldn’t as there is no reason to) and deport all illegal immigrants. He says his immigration policy would have prevented 9-11 though it was committed in planes and have no proof of the ability to stop them beforehand. https://www.washingtonpost.com.... Also there are around 11.7 million illegal immigrants in the US (http://www.nytimes.com...), how would he be able to deport them all without deporting legals or native borns, not to mention what would happen to kids that were born to two illegal parents and would have to go to orphanages. Also if one parent was deported that could tear a family apart. Also illegals who have been in the country for years or even decades would be forced back to where they came from. 3. He has no prior political experience and is going to do his reality TV show among some other things mentioned in this source. http://theodysseyonline.com... not to mention he will be busy with his presidency while the apprentice is being done. I will be making more arguments in the next round and I await my opponent’s rebuttals.	CON	43
43	S90cc69d8-A2ec8ded1	States/local municipalities should have the right to restrict handgun ownership to eligible citizens	"First, thanks for accepting, and sorry this is a little short; I don't have a lot of time. :) I'd first like to address the contention of my opponent, who states that state and local governments should have the ability to regulate handgun ownership because if not, hand guns are likely to fall into the hands of someone who will commit a crime (i.e. ex-cons) or those who are mentally unqualified to carry a weapon. In response to this I'd like to ask my opponent, would giving the power to the federal government allow people who are mentally ill or an ex-convict to purchase a hand gun? Of course not; in fact, our government would ensure this would not happen. I'd also like to point out my opponent has provided no evidence to back up this claim. I'd now like to go on to my own arguments. -First, states should not have the right to restrict handgun ownership to eligible citizens because this would restrict the liberties of only certain people, which violates the Constitution, whose Second Amendment clearly states, ""the right of the people to keep and bear Arms shall not be infringed."" Next, it would be easier for the federal government to regulate hand guns, as everything would be uniform; there would be no uncertainty as to what is allowed where."	CON	44
44	S5501e83e-A9f8ec2f3	Terminally ill patients should be given the option of assisted death	When you say there is no treatment and no hope for the terminally ill it simply isn't true. Medicine is not only used to help with pain, it can extend the life of a terminally ill person, and there may even be a way in the future to cure any illness. There are other ways to manage pain e.g. taking your mind off it. http://www.gcu.ac.uk... No-one wants to suffer, or see someone close suffer, and if told by a doctor they have no hope of getting better, it is easier to focus on ending that pain rather than thinking about positive things and others that make you happy which lessons pain. People are generally selfish, they think that having an extra right is always a good thing and having less rights is a bad thing, but often fail to think what it would mean if people can have an assisted death. Wanting to end your own pain is not selfish, however ending your pain by killing yourself is definitely selfish as you'd be thinking of yourself and not others. Not wanting to see your family see you suffer is not a good reason to kill yourself and doesn't mean you're thinking of others since killing yourself is not the only way to stop others see you in pain. Whether you suffer or not is determined by your way of thinking. Not all people who are terminally ill want assisted death, this is proof that it is possible for everyone to enjoy life, find meaning to the very end. Would you like to be invited to a party but at the end you watch a family member die? Even if you don't watch, you'd have a last vivid memory of them moments before they died instead of remember something positive from yesterday or another time. They might say goodbye but those words would hurt. You may not support their decision, but you'd have to come and support them through being there or else you might not get along very well with your family. Isn't it wrong for someone to kill them self believing they are a burden and things will be better without them? Making assisted suicide legal would send the wrong message that suicide is okay sometimes. Somebody who wants to kill them self is mentally ill! Pain and disability is not a good reason to kill yourself. All life is worth living, allowing certain people to kill them self devalues life. No respect will be given to those who need it most for example those who are disabled and in pain, more people will die by assisted suicide. People with disabilities who choose to get on with their life won't want to hear people say they are ending their life before they become like them. Terminally ill people are not simply choosing one death over another, they are choosing to die earlier as a result of having a mistaken belief. I'd much rather choose to suffer with pain and feel it is worth living than die earlier feeling my life is not worth living, even if my actual death is a bit less painful. Death happens pretty quickly and is nothing to fear. We should strive to enjoy life to the fullest whatever our condition. People who are paralyzed and so feel no pain but who have a terminal illness might still want an assisted death due to suicidal thoughts. Eventually everyone will be able to kill themselves and people will not value your life or anyone else's. Legalizing assisted death means less funding for cures, less reason to seek cures. The easy quick solution to an illness will be taken - help them kill themself - it saves money. People's lives won't mean anything. Is it right to give a suicidal man a knife so he has the option to slit his throat, or should we tell him that life is worth living. Having options sounds like a good thing but some options are best not having. The mom in the video I posted is made to feel worthless, anyone in pain would want to end pain, her daughter says she'd rather her mum die. This is not what is best for her mum even if that is what she says at that time. The mother openly discriminates against disabled people saying that she'd rather die before she is disabled. People who suddenly become disabled will really struggle to find new meaning in life. In the other video, the girl can't understand the choice she was making, one she is too young, she was told about heaven when she is impressionable. If someone doesn't choose assisted death no-one will be counting the days on the calendar, they will carry on living their life without guilt. Knowing exactly when someone is going to die is not comforting, if you are in pain and thinking the pain will end then, you are looking forward to dying i.e. not existing, rather than looking to enjoy life while you can. Without assisted death the whole family probably won't witness the terminally ill member die, they might die peacefully in their sleep. Gathering the whole family and friends to witness you kill your self will not make you value your life more or think of positive times. You'll probably be looking at people who didn't turn up etc. Saying 'no' to assisted suicide is not making any decision for them. It is possible to shorten your life already by refusing treatment and die in dignity. No-one is saying 'terminally ill should suffer', people want others to value the life they have and value other people. Thanks for having this debate with me.	CON	45
45	S17e94e37-A30aea37c	Why Marijuana is not good to smoke and should be illegal	"REBUTTAL ""Marijuana is a harmful substance because it has 421 chemicals."" Of course! Cause chemicals are always harmful, right?! Ever seen how many chemicals are in a bottle of multivitamins? Loaded with em! Things like retinol, thaimine and even ascorbic ACID! Ok, but seriously. Useless argument. ""Marijuana is stronger than it was 10 years ago, and this new, potent marijuana presents dangers unrecognized years ago."" In-fact, if what you say about the harmfulness of the smoke is true, than an increase in potency would be a very good thing since it means people will smoke less to get the same high. ""Marijuana is far worse for the lungs than tobacco."" Absolutely untrue! You should really source arguments like that instead of pulling them out of thin air. Smoking tobacco increases the risk of lung cancer whereas smoking marijuana actually DECREASES your risk of lung cancer. [1] The fact that MARIJUANA PREVENTS CANCER is one of the most censored stories of our time. ""Marijuana causes damage to the reproductive system."" Source? ""The psychoactive chemicals in marijuana are fat soluble and stay in the human body for a month, increasing the danger of exposure."" Yes, THC does stay in your fat. But it is not harmful. I'd really like to see you prove that it is. No one who knows anything about anything actually believes that. ""Marijuana causes brain damage and a behavioral disorder known as amotivational syndrome."" Not only does marijuana show no evidence of causing brain damage, it has actually been shown to PROMOTE THE GROWTH OF NEW BRAIN CELLS. [2] ""The Side Effects"" Yeah...you listed a lot of the effects from marijuana....when you are high. Probably pulled it off Wikipedia. I don't see the point. ""The Truth Involving Marijuana"" You know you're arguing AGAINST marijuana...right? Did you actually read any of that or just copy&paste it? A lot of the is making a case FOR marijuana. MARIJUANA AND HEALTH Marijuana has to be one of the single most medically useful substances in existence. And that really isn't an under-statement. Not only can it relieve pain and stimulate hunger, like it's usually used for. But it is actually an effective treatment for some very serious illnesses including cancer, multiple-sclerosis, Alzheimer's and the effects of brain damages caused by strokes and brain injury. [3,4] http://www.youtube.com... EFFECTS OF THE DRUG WAR But the worst part about all this isn't even that we have outlawed something so useful. The worst part is the harm to society that anti-marijuana legislation actually causes. It's simply economic law that whenever you outlaw something that is high in demand(lol, high), all you're going to accomplish is raising the price and granting a monopoly to criminal organizations. When marijuana is made illegal, the majority of those only being willing to risk growing it are those who already have a foot in the criminal world. It's the most ironic thing in the world that the government spends BILLIONS of our tax dollars to fights cartels that they give power to in the first place. Once marijuana is legalized, normal people will take over market and push the cartels out of business. THIS SAVES LIVES. CONCLUSION Cannabis is really a miracle plant. A godsend. And we have outlawed it. It is a testament the seemingly infinite degree of human stupidity that we could have this happen. Not only is it medically valuable. We can also make the most high quality rope and fabric there is. YOU CAN EVEN RUN YOUR CARS OFF IT. I use hemp hairspray. Wanna know the REAL reason marijuana is illegal? Here it is: http://deepgreenfest.files.wordpress.com... There are A LOT of powerful companies that would lose business if marijuana were not so stigmatized. SOURCES 1. http://www.alternet.org... 2. http://www.bioedonline.org... 3. http://www.medicalnewstoday.com... 4. [video]"	CON	46
46	S84f999d5-A650dde01	Resolved: Medical Marijuana should be legal	"I world like to thank my opponent for accepting this debate! And adding those definitions. 1. Health Benefits Alzheimer's Disease - Forget the burnout jokes you've heard about effects of smoking marijuana on the brain. Scripps Research Institute found the active ingredient in marijuana, tetrahydrocannabinol or THC, inhibits the formation amyloid plaque, a primary pathological marker. The report, published in 2006 in the journal Molecular Pharmaceutics,said THC is a ""considerably superior inhibitor of (amyloid plaque) aggregation"" to several currently approved drugs for treating the disease. Brain Cancer - Researchers from Compultense University in Madrid, Spain have found THC promotes the death of brain cancer cells (http://www.medicalnewstoday.com...) by a process called autophagy. Autophagy essentially causes the cancerous cells to eat itself. Seems that would be a health benefit of medical marijuana that should be investigated further, no? Head and Neck Cancer - The journal Cancer Prevention Research published a study in 2009 that observed 434 subjects with incidents of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) from 9 medical facilities. While the results were far from conclusive, the evidence indicated patients with 10-20 years of marijuana use was associated with the ""significantly reduced"" (http://cancerpreventionresearch.aacrjournals.org...) risk of HNSCC. Lung Cancer and Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD)- Researchers at Harvard University (http://www.sciencedaily.com...) found THC to reduce tumor growth in common lung cancer by 50% and significantly reduce the ability of the cancer to spread. In 2006 a UCLA researcher found smoking marijuana did not appear to increase the risk of lung cancer or head-and-neck malignancies even among heavy users. However, the study indicated the more tobacco a person smoked, the greater the risk of developing cancer of the lung and head and neck. Note: I am by no means saying the ingestion of combustible smoke of any kind is not without risks, I am merely trying to present information about research conducted and the results that show promising results of the potential health benefits of medical marijuana which warrant further investigation. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) - More commonly known as Lou Gehrig's disease is a fatal neurodegnerative disorder characterized by the selective loss of motor neurons in the spinal cord, brain stem and motor cortex. Clinical trials have indicated that cannabinoids in mice can delay ALS progression. This supports anecdotal reports from ALS sufferers who found the health benefits, of medical marijuana helpful in relieving certain disease symptoms such as pain, appetite loss and depression. http://norml.org... Chronic Pain - Chronic pain is a broad category that includes, but is not limited to, arthritis, migraines, back pain, fibromyalgia, carpal tunnel syndrome, phantom limb pain, scoliosis, osteoporosis, multiple sclerosis and HIV, The University of California at Davis (http://www.thirdage.com...) studied the efficacy of inhaled cannabis patients with central or peripheral nerve-related pain in a randomized, placebo-controlled trial. Results indicated that low levels of THC was equally effective as high levels in resolving pain indicating you don't have to smoke your brains out for the analgesic effects of THC. 2. Science The University of California Center for Medicinal Cannabis Research has done several studies into the efficacy of marijuana for neuropathic use - especially in pain reduction. They have been done using FDA standardized clinical trials with randomized, placebo-controlled procedures. These studies have clearly shown the positive effects of using marijuana as a pain reliever and medicine for patients with such chronic conditions as HIV, multiple sclerosis, diabetes, spinal cord injury, and sleep disorders. http://www.cmcr.ucsd.edu... A recent review in Germany showed that since 2005, there have been 37 controlled studies assessing the safety and efficacy of marijuana (and its compounds). These involved far more subjects than the average study seeking FDA approval for a prescription drug. http://www.cannabis-med.org... Many opponents of medical marijuana claim that there is ""little evidence"" and call for ""more research, more science."" These are the more reasonable of the detractors for the medicinal use of marijuana, of course. Yet these reasonable arguments against marijuana as a medicine are pretty hollow given the vast amount of research that's already been done with much more on the way. Proponents of medical marijuana often ignore the research as well. Despite the common claims to the contrary, there is evidence that marijuana also has negative side effects. Most of these center on the physical effects of smoking it as well as proven cognitive negatives. Admittedly, the effects are no worse (and generally better) than the side effects associated with many prescription drugs and accepted non-prescription drugs such as alcohol or tobacco. http://www.newscientist.com... Most of the arguments for or against the use of medical marijuana seem to center on social rather than science-based concerns. This is rightly so, in some cases, as there are deep social issues involved with marijuana's use (or prohibition). Many communities have benefited from the introduction of medical marijuana, however. http://cannacentral.com... negative impacts of marijuana, socially, are nearly always associated with its prohibition rather than its allowance. 3. Marijuana legalization could save US taxpayers money. Marijuana prohibition currently costs taxpayers billions of dollars a year to enforce, and it accomplishes little or nothing beneficial in terms of economic benefits. On the contrary, legalizing marijuana would not only save taxpayers billions of dollars a year in unnecessary costs, but it would also jumpstart the economy to the tune of $100 billion a year or more, say some economists. In an open letter written to the President, Congress, State Governors, and State Legislators, more than 550 economists, including several nobel laureates, draw attention to a report authored by Professor Jeffrey A. Miron that highlights the potential economic benefits of marijuana decriminalization. Entitled The Budgetary Implications of Marijuana Prohibition, the report states that legalizing, taxing, and regulating marijuana would do wonders to reduce inflated budgets and generate new revenue streams. ""[R]eplacing prohibition with a system of taxation and regulation [...] would save $7.7 billion per year in state and federal expenditures on prohibition enforcement and produce tax revenues of at least $2.4 billion annually if marijuana were taxed like most consumer goods,"" say the economists. ""If, however, marijuana were taxed similarly to alcohol or tobacco, it might generate as much as $6.2 billion annually."" As many as 60 million Americans are already estimated to be spending upwards of $110 billion a year on marijuana, the vast majority of which ends up in the hands of organized crime units. If marijuana was legalized, honest citizens could grow and sell it instead, which would inject new life into the flailing economy, and redirect billions of dollars in cash flow from criminals to legitimate growers. ""At a minimum, this debate will force advocates of current policy to show that prohibition has benefits sufficient to justify the cost to taxpayers, foregone tax revenues, and numerous ancillary consequences that result from marijuana prohibition,"" add the economists. http://www.huffingtonpost.com... http://www.prweb.com..."	PRO	47
47	S84f999d5-Adda3d52a	Resolved: Medical Marijuana should be legal	"I am going to continue my last arguments. And I thank my opponent Rebuttles Ever since the mid 70s, medical scientists have been well aware of the beneficial effects of cannabinoid compounds over cancerous cells. Thanks to modern science, over a dozen studies conducted during recent years have been able to partially reveal just how it works. Yet cannabis is still not endorsed by pharmaceutical companies as a cancer cure, and since it is not promoted through mainstream channels, very few people are aware of its benefits. Consequently, it is not sought after as an alternative to disfiguring chemotherapy and other harmful drugs. Laboratory tests conducted in 2008 by a team of scientists formed as a joint research effort between Spain, France and Italy, and published in The Journal Of Clinical Investigation, showed that the active ingredient in marijuana, known as tetrahydrocannabinol or THC, can function as a cure for brain cancer by inducing human glioma cell death through stimulation of autophagy. The study concluded that via the same biochemical process THC could terminate multiple types of cancers, affecting various cells in the body. Other studies have shown that cannabinoids may work by various mechanisms, including inhibiting cell growth, inducing cell death, and inhibiting tumor metastasis. What is amazing is that while cannabinoids effectively target and kill cancerous cells, they do not affect healthy, normal cells and may actually protect them against cellular death. Moreover, cannabinoids are also researched for their pain-modulation and anti-inflammatory abilities as they bind to special receptors in the brain, much like opioid derivatives that are commonly prescribed today. Further evidence to support the effects of cannabis extract on malignant cells comes from the real life experience of individuals who have successfully overcome cancer by using cannabis oil. Examples include a patient, who managed to completely cure his skin cancer by simply applying cannabis oil onto the affected areas of the skin, as well as another, who recovered from a severe head injury with the aid of hemp oil. One of the cannabinoids that has displayed amazing medical properties is cannabidiol, or CBD - a non-psychoactive compound that is regarded by some as the medical discovery of the 21st century, and with good reason. Research indicates that CBD can relieve convulsions, reduce inflammation, lower anxiety and suppress nausea, while also inhibiting cancer development. In addition, CBD has exhibited neuroprotective properties, relieving symptoms of dystonia and proving just as effective as regular antipsychotics in the treatment of schizophrenia. What stands out is that from the vast amount of research and data available, as well as the personal experiences of cancer survivors, is that no chemotherapy currently being used medically can match the non-toxic anti-carcinogenic and anti-tumorigenic effects of these natural plant compounds. http://safeaccess.ca... http://www.jci.org... http://dotsub.com... http://en.wikipedia.org... 1.Health Benefits Even Queen Victoria used marijuana extracts to relieve menstrual cramps. Mental Imbalances ADHD, PTSD, OCD, ODD, IED, CD, Bi-polar disorder, all in one 7-year-old boy. This is tough, since we're pretty sure one of those things listed is a nuclear device. Surprisingly, the child was not named Damien. According to the boy's mother (http://medicalcbd.wordpress.com...) his life was pretty much entirely therapy, medication, and institutionalization. There's a Charlie Sheen joke in here, for sure, but we're not going to make it. We're talking about sick kids here, focus: How Medical Marijuana Helped: After trying many medications, the boy's mother finally got him a prescription for medical marijuana. After eating part of a muffin, he stopped being a complete trainwreck of a human being. According to mom, that day ""was the first day of Jeff's life, literally!"" Ignoring the fact that her misuse of ""literally"" implies she gave birth to a seven-year-old, this anecdote illustrates a miraculous turnaround for the boy. He is now 8, and apparently living the life of a normal, if maladjusted boy. ADD and ADHD A well documented USC study (http://pr.cannazine.co.uk...) done about a year ago showed that marijuana is not only a perfect alternative for Ritalin but treats the disorder without any of the negative side effects of the pharmaceutical. 2. Science A controlled substance The medical establishment continues to reinvent their justification for the demonization of marijuana as more and more of the claims made against cannabis are disproven. The justification currently holding the most ground is that cannabis is a plant, and cannot be carefully regulated because of the great chemical variability that is found between individual plants. Of course, medications have to be carefully monitored when the substance being used is also a poison at a slightly higher dose, as the overwhelming majority of pharmaceuticals are. And while one could understand the desire to maintain the strict regulation standards, the fact is that attempts to fix the purity problem have severely reduced its medical potency, and process has no real benefit. Control doesn't make the substance any safer because it isn't dangerous in the first place. Its toxicity is comparable to water. Yes, an individual could make themselves feel very unwell if they surpass their stomach's physical limits with any substance. A medicine to save us from medicines Individuals who have successfully used cannabis as a part of cancer therapy agree that there needs to be more research and more discussion about the actual science behind the plant's chemistry - not just anecdotal evidence from individual users. Unfortunately, most of the investigation of the medical applications for cannabis are being done illegally and in secret. The controversy, even according to the researchers themselves, is the main barrier to conducting scientific studies of the plant's properties. As a substance classified as a Schedule I drug, even research on cannabis is an illegal activity. Many sick individuals simply cannot wait for governments to get over their hang-ups, nor can the expectation that they should be justified. Currently, patients are required to exhaust the potential of other anti-nausea medications, many of which are less safe, in order to be prescribed medical marijuana. Inaugural beginnings of real science The government has licensed a few manufacturers to produce THC acid extracts from the cannabis plant, as well to artificially synthesize the chemical. The problem is that the tentative separation has only resulted in a THC that has a profoundly diminished efficacy, and leaves behind the other 88 healing cannabinoids. In a medical context, cannabis is almost exclusively used as a treatment for the symptoms of chemotherapy - the polite name for radiation sickness. It must be remembered that THC is rarely used to treat cancer itself, and that patients are not really tapping into its healing properties. The overwhelming majority of patients are using the plant's psychoactive properties to mediate the deleterious effects of radiation. The direct effect of THC on ailments themselves is a largely unexplored field. As research moves forward, the artificially manufactured cannabinoids will inevitably increase in quality, eliminating the purity problems, and paving the way for the kind of precise control that will make regulators comfortable distributing the product. http://watch.montanapbs.org... http://www.drcnet.org... http://www.nap.edu... Ran out of Characters because of my Rebuttel THANKS FOR THE DEBATE!!"	PRO	48
48	S84f999d5-A6a5f04e5	Resolved: Medical Marijuana should be legal	"Contention 1. Users can become addicted to the ""medicine"" Long-term effectsMain article: Long-term effects of cannabis Main article: Cannabis smoking Cannabis is ranked one of the least harmful drugs by a study published in the UK medical journal, The Lancet.[24]Cannabis can be habit-forming and the development of cannabis dependence in some users has been well established; its effects on intelligence[25], memory, respiratory functions and the possible relationship of cannabis use to mental disorders[26] such as schizophrenia,[27] psychosis,[28] Depersonalization disorder[29] and depression[30] are still under discussion. A study published in the American Journal of Epidemiology in 2011, concluded that the prevalence of obesity is lower in cannabis users than in nonusers.[31] A decades-long study of more than 1,000 New Zealanders found that the persistent, dependent use of marijuana before age 18 showed lasting harm to a person's intelligence, attention and memory. The international team of researchers found an average IQ decline of 8 points when age 13 and age 38 IQ tests were compared. Quitting pot did not appear to reverse the loss either, said lead researcher Madeline Meier, a post-doctoral researcher at Duke University. B. Smokers become addicts. They keep smoking because they find pleasure in it and because it relieves stress. There are better ways to enjoy life and deal with stress. All information is based on scientific research about what will give you the best chances of quitting. Adapted from http://www.surgeongeneral.gov... and www,smokefree.gov Contention 2. Effects of MJ on the brain. Effects on the Brain Scientists have learned a great deal about how THC acts in the brain to produce its many effects. When someone smokes marijuana, THC rapidly passes from the lungs into the bloodstream, which carries the chemical to organs throughout the body, including the brain. In the brain, THC connects to specific sites called cannabinoid receptors on nerve cells and influences the activity of those cells. Some brain areas have many cannabinoid receptors; others have few or none. Many cannabinoid receptors are found in the parts of the brain that influence pleasure, memory, thought, concentration, sensory and time perception, and coordinated movement(5). The short-term effects of marijuana can include problems with memory and learning; distorted perception; difficulty in thinking and problem solving; loss of coordination; and increased heart rate. Research findings for long-term marijuana use indicate some changes in the brain similar to those seen after long-term use of other major drugs of abuse. For example, cannabinoid (THC or synthetic forms of THC) withdrawal in chronically exposed animals leads to an increase in the activation of the stress-response system(6) and changes in the activity of nerve cells containing dopamine(7). Dopamine neurons are involved in the regulation of motivation and reward, and are directly or indirectly affected by all drugs of abuse. Though in the short run i COULD concede that legalizing MJ will cost taxpayers less money, but the effects are LONG-TERM and could cost more than what the affirmative actually believes. Contention 3. Effects on the Heart One study has indicated that a user's risk of heart attack more than quadruples in the first hour after smoking marijuana(8). The researchers suggest that such an effect might occur from marijuana's effects on blood pressure and heart rate and reduced oxygen-carrying capacity of blood. Effects on the Lungs A study of 450 individuals found that people who smoke marijuana frequently but do not smoke tobacco have more health problems and miss more days of work than nonsmokers(9). Many of the extra sick days among the marijuana smokers in the study were for respiratory illnesses. Even infrequent use can cause burning and stinging of the mouth and throat, often accompanied by a heavy cough. Someone who smokes marijuana regularly may have many of the same respiratory problems that tobacco smokers do, such as daily cough and phlegm production, more frequent acute chest illness, a heightened risk of lung infections, and a greater tendency to obstructed airways(10). Smoking marijuana increases the likelihood of developing cancer of the head or neck, and the more marijuana smoked the greater the increase(11). A study comparing 173 cancer patients and 176 healthy individuals produced strong evidence that marijuana smoking doubled or tripled the risk of these cancers. Marijuana use also has the potential to promote cancer of the lungs and other parts of the respiratory tract because it contains irritants and carcinogens(12, 13). In fact, marijuana smoke contains 50 to 70 percent more carcinogenic hydrocarbons than does tobacco smoke(14). It also produces high levels of an enzyme that converts certain hydrocarbons into their carcinogenic form—levels that may accelerate the changes that ultimately produce malignant cells(15). Marijuana users usually inhale more deeply and hold their breath longer than tobacco smokers do, which increases the lungs' exposure to carcinogenic smoke. These facts suggest that, puff for puff, smoking marijuana may increase the risk of cancer more than smoking tobacco. Other Health Effects Some of marijuana's adverse health effects may occur because THC impairs the immune system's ability to fight off infectious diseases and cancer. In laboratory experiments that exposed animal and human cells to THC or other marijuana ingredients, the normal disease-preventing reactions of many of the key types of immune cells were inhibited(16). In other studies, mice exposed to THC or related substances were more likely than unexposed mice to develop bacterial infections and tumors(17, 18). http://www.learnwell.org... Finally contention 4. Long term effects that the affirmative did not tell you of. Effects of Heavy Marijuana Use on Learning and Social Behavior Depression(19), anxiety(20), and personality disturbances(21) have been associated with marijuana use. Research clearly demonstrates that marijuana has potential to cause problems in daily life or make a person's existing problems worse. Because marijuana compromises the ability to learn and remember information, the more a person uses marijuana the more he or she is likely to fall behind in accumulating intellectual, job, or social skills. Moreover, research has shown that marijuana's adverse impact on memory and learning can last for days or weeks after the acute effects of the drug wear off(22, 23). Students who smoke marijuana get lower grades and are less likely to graduate from high school, compared with their non-smoking peers(24, 25, 26, 27). A study of 129 college students found that, for heavy users of marijuana (those who smoked the drug at least 27 of the preceding 30 days), critical skills related to attention, memory, and learning were significantly impaired even after they had not used the drug for at least 24 hours(28). The heavy marijuana users in the study had more trouble sustaining and shifting their attention and in registering, organizing, and using information than did the study participants who had used marijuana no more than 3 of the previous 30 days. As a result, someone who smokes marijuana every day may be functioning at a reduced intellectual level all of the time. More recently, the same researchers showed that the ability of a group of long-term heavy marijuana users to recall words from a list remained impaired for a week after quitting, but returned to normal within 4 weeks(29). Thus, it is possible that some cognitive abilities may be restored in individuals who quit smoking marijuana, even after long-term heavy use. With this known i ask for a vote in Negation of the resolution which states that: Resolved: Medical Marijuana should be legal http://www.debate.org..."	CON	49
49	S90cc69d8-A91d84378	States/local municipalities should have the right to restrict handgun ownership to eligible citizens	I would like to thank my opponent for the creation of this topic, I'm going to first begin with a definition. Definitions: Handgun -a firearm that is held and fired with one hand[1] Opening Arguments: Many individuals feel the need to purchase a handgun for various purposes such as protecting their families and property, and in the hands of responsible pose no serious threat to the general public, however when handguns fall into the hands of ex-convicts and those who are mentally ill it does. The fact that hand guns could fall into the hands of those who are likely to commit a crime again such as ex-convicts[2] or those who are mentally unqualified to carry a weapon should justify giving local governments the ability to regulate handgun ownership. Thank You. [1] http://www.google.ca... [2] http://www.telegraph.co.uk...	PRO	50
50	S5501e83e-A6f9156e2	Terminally ill patients should be given the option of assisted death	The US national library of medicine did a study on the attitude of terminally ill patients toward euthanasia and physician assisted suicide. In this study they had 70 patients. 32 men and 38 women with a median survival of 44.5 days. 73% of these patients believed that physician assisted suicide should be legalized. The main reasons for choosing this option where pain and their right to choose. As for the pain. Yes it can be managed, but that does not mean the pain will go away. The further into the illness the patient is, the more pain there will be because of the illness spreading and taking over their body. Drugs can only control so much, and a doctor can only give so much medicine before it becomes dangerous. By dangerous I mean too much medicine could cause an overdose, or could cause other side effects such as difficulty breathing which would add more pain for the patient. As for freezing the patient, I am not sure what you mean, but I am going to assume you are talking about cryogenic ally freezing. To be cryogenically frozen the patient must first be pronounced dead. It is illegal to cryogenically freeze someone who is still alive. There are scientist and doctors out there who are always looking for a cure to every known disease out there. however, it takes time to find a cure, and once found it takes an average of 7 years to get the drug into the market. Given how most terminal patients only have 6 months to live, they won't have time to get the drug. Some illnesses do take longer then 6 months to kill, such as aids. However, most patients don't think about ending their suffering, or don't want to end their suffering until it is too much for them to handle. There are certain medical things a doctor looks at to determine the amount of time a terminal patient has left such as how far a cancer has spread and how fast the illness is taking over someone's body. They might not always be accurate, but it is only a guess, which most of the times is pretty accurate. it might not be accurate right down to the last second or minute or hour, but it is close. Selfish is defined as lack of consideration for another. in the case of a person not letting someone make the decision to end their pain is selfish because they are not considering the fact that the person is suffering. With assisted death, the patient can choose when to end their suffering. That would give the patient time to spend with their loved ones and they would know how much time they have left with them. It would also save the patients family from having to watch their loved one suffer in pain. Respect is defined as deep admiration for someone. when you respect the patients decision to end their pain it is not sending a message that their life is less precious than anyone Else's. It is saying that you respect that person's decision. They have a right to say what happens in their life. to say that they don't have a decision is sending a bad message to others. it is kind of like saying you don't think they can make their own decision, as if they were incompetent. Legalizing assisted death would not cause more terminal illnesses. If it is legalized it gives the terminally ill patient more options. It gives them control of the illness. They won't lose respect for themselves because they are given another option. Saying that a terminally ill patient at the end of there life is not the person you once knew is not devaluing the patient. it is simply stating that the person who once was able to run miles without stopping, loved to laugh and hang out with friends, and paint, is no longer able to do that. they lost the things they loved and once looked forward to doing every day. yes they still have their family, but they can't do anything with them like they could before the illness which causes sadness. You would be watching someone who once was happy and always had a smile slowly wither away in the pain into someone unfamiliar to you. Their is nothing to fear but fear itself. so why should someone fear death, and not knowing when they will die? Giving the patient the option to end their pain would put them more at ease and give them time not to fear, or lessen the fear of death. http://zidbits.com... http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov... http://www.skirsch.com...	PRO	51
51	Sc8d9f8d2-A628c6c3d	Murder should be legalised	Since this is my last round, and my opponent did not rebut or present any new argument, I have won.	CON	52
52	Sc8d9f8d2-Adcd8bff1	Murder should be legalised	Why is murder not legal? Our population reached a disastorous number long ago, and we need to keep it down. Lower it. Defeat the plague of evil and corruption that has swept over our world. Murder is the answer. You can get rid of whoever you want, free of charge, and lower the population of our world. Population growth is causing all of our major problems today. This needs to be done.	PRO	53
53	Sc8d9f8d2-A854456e4	Murder should be legalised	I accept the challenge. It is left for my opponent to prove his claims while I act otherwise	CON	54
54	Sc8d9f8d2-Ae25b347f	Murder should be legalised	Oh, you're right, I do concede. All hail the master, with his oh so intellectually appealing sentence structure and incredibly diverse way of informing. I swoon every time! Ugh. Good night.	PRO	55
55	Sc8d9f8d2-Aded647e5	Murder should be legalised	So... are you actually going to argue? Or are you just going to do nothing? How pathetic.	PRO	56
56	S64a697e7-A9237bd10	assisted suicide should be legalized	i do not understand how telling me that i have a poor grammar and what so ever has to do with the topic. my opponent past most of his time repeating it over and over, and i see it as a lack of arguments. what i mean is, if he doesn't have any more exciting arguments to tell us about, then it's too bad. also, my opponent talks about murderers having a role to play in death rate. really? are we encouraging that? futher, you say that rights are man-made and that they can be taken away? that is right, but when we talk about right to life, what does a murderer has to do with that? those are criminals, and are to be put in jail. so you claim that life can be taken away by men, and that god doesn't have anything to do with it? well, it implies that whenever i fell like dying, i can just see a doctor. come on, everyone knows how much life is pretious and how many people would end their lives at the first occasion. in fact, according to a WHO survey, 116 men and 45 women committ suicide every year in greetland. it that a normal thing? of course not, and instead of legalising suicide, each government would better try to understand why people would leave sadness arround and may be try to change that, than saying yes,, go ahead, kill yourselves! where is our bright and shiny future we so often talk about then?	CON	57
57	S64a697e7-A80be8f76	assisted suicide should be legalized	I forfeit this round; vote for pro.	PRO	58
58	S2933777c-A7f23322a	The monarchy should be abolished in the UK	I will therefore keep this last round brief. The 3 arguments my opponent put forward were: 1) The monarchy costs the taxpayers money. 2) The treasury would benefit from the abolition of the monarchy. 3) The monarchy has no place in 'modern' British society. I disproved all three of these by providing evidence that: 1) The taxpayers actually make a profit from the monarchy 2) The treasury wouldn't be able to confiscate the wealth of the monarchy as it is not the proceeds of crime, but an inheritance. And that seeing as the taxpayers make a profit from the monarchy, to abolish them would lose us money. 3) The majority of people in all surveys support the monarchy, and can relate to the monarchy. Thus showing that British society wants the monarchy, and so they have a place in that society. Thanks for reading.	CON	59
59	Sbf9475f7-Abb3dadb	gay marrige should be legalizzed	Oh... how I was going to give a bang... at the end, but seeing as my opponent has forfeited the final round. Please exclude judging this round, when you are voting, as I won't post any new arguments. Thank you. Vote fairly (sarcasm much). :)	CON	60
60	S5501e83e-Ab918c4f8	Terminally ill patients should be given the option of assisted death	"Once again, the poll you have used makes a great point for my side of the debate. Most people want to legalize assisted death. However, as I stated before, they want it legalized because of the pain they are in, not to be selfish. Yes, they want to end their own pain, but can you really call that selfish? They are not only thinking of themselves. They are thinking of their loved ones as well. They don't want their family to see them suffering. As for your statement on rape and how legalizing it would make women more responsible, I don't want to even start on that subject and how appalling the statement you just said was. Yes, patients do have the right to refuse treatment. However, with a terminal illness, there is not treatment. That is why it is called a terminal illness. They are only given the medication to help with the pain, which will eventually take control of their bodies, and a respirator to help them breath near the end of the illness. When a patient wants to die with dignity, they usually mean they want to die before the illness takes over so much that they cannot do anything by themselves. As the lady in the video you showed in your last argument said. She didn't want to get to the point where she was answering questions with blink once for yes and twice for no. She wanted it to end before she got that bad. We are not sending messages to people with depression saying that suicide is ok. We are NOT talking about mental health issues in this debate. So many people think assisted death is ok compared to suicide because they are for different reasons. Suicide is done by people who are depressed or have another mental disorder that CAN be treated. Assisted death is done by patients who are terminally ill, in pain, and CANNOT be treated. People who are terminally ill are choosing one death over another. Let's say that you were suffering from a terminal illness. At one point, the pain will be so bad that no drug will be able to treat it. You could spend days in that kind of pain. What would you choose? To die before the pain gets so bad it can't be controlled, or to suffer with that pain for days and die with it? Assisted death would be a more comfortable death for a terminally ill patient. They won't have to feel the uncontrollable pain surge through their body as they are about to die. Somebody who is paralyzed can still live their life without pain if the paralysis is not caused by a terminal illness. Therefore they would have no reason for assisted death. Terminal illness has NO cure. So a terminally ill cancer patient would have no treatments that would work to cure the disease. Legalizing assisted death does not mean that they should stop looking for a cure for the disease or that the research would receive less funding or that it would remove the incentive to improve life. It only means that until the cure is found, we don't let people suffer in pain. As for the video. Every terminally ill patient handles things differently. That is why assisted death would be an OPTION. Not something that is forced on them. In the video in your previous argument, the daughter and son are not making the mom feel worthless. They asked the mom what she wanted. She wanted to end the pain. The daughter wanted what was best for her mom. She wanted what her mom wanted. To end the pain. Saying that the moms fear of answering question by blinking is not realistic is a lie. It is what can happen to terminal patients near the end. They are placed on a respirator to help them breath, so they cannot speak, or the muscles in their body just simply stopped working, so they cannot say anything. The parents gave the child the choice of heaven or hospital because the next time she got sick with something as simple as a cold, she would have died. If she chooses the hospital, they would only keep her hooked up to machines until she died. If she stayed at home, she could die peacefully in her own bed with her family. What she was told was not a lie. They were only telling her what I told you in the way that a five year old would understand. Even if a patient does not choose assisted death, their family will still be counting down the time they have left with them. The reason it could be so important to a terminally ill patient to decide when they die is because it could be a comfort to them knowing that they won't have to die in so much pain and they will know exactly when they will die. Yes, not everyone knows when they will die. But in the case of a terminally ill patient, they do have and assessment of how much time they have left. Even without assisted death, the family would still witness the terminally ill family member die. It is not something they can stop from happening. In the article I shared with you she is making the point that no one can make this choice for her. No one has the right to make the choice for her. It is her life. She wants to make the decisions about it. You said ""The reality is no-one is making any decision to make her suffer, or saying she should suffer"". When you do not allow a terminal patient the option of assisted death, you are making the decision for them. Since this is the last round I will summarize the key points to my argument below: Options the patients right to choose what happens in their life to end the pain it is inhumane to let someone suffer against their will statistics show that most people want to legalize assisted death terminal illnesses have no cures Just because assisted death is legalized doesn't mean you stop looking for cures * just to clarify, this debate has nothing to do with mental illness."	PRO	61
61	S8e58c781-Ad7e1287b	should illgle immagrants be allowed citezenship	"You stated that ""if you live in a lower state you have to get special shots because of the illegals coming from Mexico."" I have yet to see a single scrap of evidence that American citizens are required to take additional shots due to the influx of immigrants coming in from Mexico. You also stated that ""plus, all the illegals are taking up the jobs a legal American could have which puts more American citizens into poverty."" Most economists in America will find this statement utterly ridiculous. The Brooking's Institution's Michael Greenstone, said that, and I quote, ""on average, immigrant workers increase the opportunities and income of Americans."" Immigrants (whether they are illegal immigrants or not) increase the job opportunity's for Americans, because they start businesses and hire more workers. Our goal shouldn't be to send back the immigrants, but to welcome them. It's our responsibility to give them more chances to become lawful American citizens. It can take years for close relatives of U.S citizens to obtain Immigrant Visas. This difficult immigration process only encourages people to immigrate illegally. You also state that ""also the illegals don't have to pay taxes."" That's my point exactly! If illegal immigrants are allowed citizenship, then they will pay taxes! Many illegal or undocumented immigrants actually pay income and sales taxes anyhow. On average an immigrant, regardless of status, will pay 80,000 U.S dollars more in taxes than they use in government services over the course of their lifetime."	PRO	62
62	Sfe7366cf-A93db3761	God should be brought into schools more.	Yes I realize this. But you have to see that by taking our religion out. Is favoring the other. Allowing us not to pray, is taking our religion OUT of schools....so that makes room for other beliefs. That does not seem fair to me. does it? Public schools don't teach creation, but evolution is.	PRO	63
63	Sfe7366cf-A59521042	God should be brought into schools more.	Okay...I will break it down as much as possible. You have a school, lets say two religions for this example. It's 50/50. Stay with me. You take one completely out. Now its 50/0. That opens it for the remaining 50 or another belief. Now that makes it unfair. One is completely out. Even one is being taught. How is this not favoring one? Now do you see what I'm saying?	PRO	64
64	S90cc69d8-A4bb2e65c	States/local municipalities should have the right to restrict handgun ownership to eligible citizens	"I am terribly sorry for my forfeit in the previous round i was forwarded an unexpectedly large workload and I was not able to post my argument on time, however... I would like to begin by further explaining the argument in the previous round before addressing any of the arguments present by my opponent. Firstly let me begin by saying the purpose for my opening argument was to highlight the importance of the creation of gun regulation laws and why any level of government would be justified in the creation of laws to limit gun ownership to competent citizens. My opponent clearly misconstrued my argument when he suggested that I was implying that should the federal government assume the responsibility of regulating gun ownership. However that is not to say that there are no benefits to giving the responsibilities of gun control to state an local governments. My opponent correctly stated in R2 that if the federal government were to be forwarded the right to restrict gun owner ship the law would be uniform and simpler, however uniform and simplistic does not necessarily mean better. Consider the following if the federal government were to be given that power states with low levels of gun violence would be forced to change their laws despite the fact that the laws may not need to be changed, if the states and local governments were to be given the power to restrict gun ownership systems of gun control that would would continue stay in place while those that are not could be changed for the better. I would like to end by addressing the constitutional merits of allowing states and local governments to restrict gun ownership to eligible citizens. My opponent stated in R2 that allowing states and local governments to restrict gun ownership would violate the second amendment, however he falsely states what the second amendment is. The second amendment reads as follows: ""A well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be infringed."" As you can see my opponent conveniently only quoted half of the second amendment. Seeing as how it is not definitively clear whether or not the second amendment applies to only organized militias or all individuals it is unfair to simply state that restricting gun ownership is unconstitutional. Thank You"	PRO	65
65	S397892cd-A7364c14a	Should the United States have stricter immigration laws.	I thank my opponent for this debate, Pro never stated he was talking about illegal immigrants, so I assumed he was talking about stricter immigration laws in general. I will address Pro's argument first. What America needs to fight illegal immigration is stronger patrol. There is no point having tougher laws if nobody will enforce it. I believe we can tackle this problem, if we build higher security fences, or walls. to prevent people from entering the U.S in an easier way. My original argument was the American economy's strength lies in the power of immigrants. Even with our already tight restrictions on immigration, I hardly think making it tougher will benefit us at all. The unemployment rate for the U.S is 5.5%, which is lower than countries such as Canada and the U.K. With the American economy continuing to gain strength, the unemployment rate is destined to drop ever further. In this case Americans can have jobs, and we can also offer jobs to immigrants. This way our economy will flourish, and it is a win/win situation for both sides. http://data.bls.gov...	CON	66
66	S397892cd-A574a5ba9	Should the United States have stricter immigration laws.	I accept.	CON	67
67	S397892cd-A5d143233	Should the United States have stricter immigration laws.	My second argument is that most illegal immigrants come to the U.S to leave poverty, which means they are looking for jobs and when there is eleven million illegals who will work for half the pay that Americans will this could lead to large amounts of Americans without jobs.	PRO	68
68	Sef54dc89-Aa4e51222	Donald Trump should be the next US president	Okay; pretty solid points but I'm sure if my rebuttal can keep up. 1 - I'll give it to you there, Trump's idea of a Muslim tracking database was absurd, ignorant, misuse of government powers and a violation of equality & liberty 2 - Again, that is Trump's PLAN; Not all of this will come into action when he's elected (Specifically Mexico paying for the borders) But I do agree with Trump on this issue of illegal immigrants from Mexico because they're the biggest nuisance in American history; they destroyed our economy, implanted state socialism, and raised crime, no other group of Immigrants was able to do so 3 - George Washington, Dwight D. Eisenhower, John F. Kennedy, Ronald Reagan and Abraham Lincoln had no prior political experience and they were great presidents, why would Trump not be a great president when those guys were? Please no more emotion based arguments, I can tell you were told this by someone else.	PRO	69
69	Sef54dc89-Ad1fb3053	Donald Trump should be the next US president	Ok so I was in fact not told this by someone else but anyway sorry if this is brief as I am on an IPad. 1. Con then concedes that the database on Muslims is a ridiculous notion. 2.,Con has not provided a source that any of these things has happened much less because of illegal immigrants and has not refutes that it would be a massive waste of tax dollars and he has not stated how Mexico would pay for it. 3. I'm concede this point if con can provide a source to prove ALL of these presidents had no prior political experience. Con has not actually refuted the arguments about separating people from their families and has not provided an argument or a source.	CON	70
70	Sa6458ad5-Afc5910da	Illegal Immigrants should be deported, anchor babies or not.	Immigration of almost any kind (legal or illegal) has a positive or at very least neutral impact on the economy [1] because of this they are not depriving the existing population of the US of anything and in fact help to improve the standard of living of the american people. Furthermore the number of children per women in most developed countries including the US [2] is falling meaning that the only way that the US (and a number of other western nations) can sustain their populations is through allowing significant amounts of immigration and deporting millions of people will not help with it. [1] http://www.thefiscaltimes.com... [2] https://upload.wikimedia.org...	CON	71
71	Sa6458ad5-Aaa38da6e	Illegal Immigrants should be deported, anchor babies or not.	Full Rebuttal: Illegal immigrants do in fact increase crime. You know all of those drug cartels and murderers in Mexico? Guess what, they're coming here illegally. How in any does having drug cartels and murderers LOWER crime? [1] Having an insecure border with a developing nation is relevant, because it means more illegals can come here, and we don't deport them, which encourages more illegals. The process to get in does take time and effort, but it's better than having to live the rest of your life knowing you're a criminal. Those Spanish people you mentioned? They were forced to come here and assimilate, because no one else spoke Spanish. Now, however, we have so many illegals coming in that they don't even bother learning Spanish, because we've become pretty much a bi-lingual country where you don't even have to speak English. Conclusion Illegal immigrants are a problem that this country needs to face head-on, for these reasons: -They are a drain on our economy by avoiding taxes and getting free welfare.- -They increase crime because they've come from a crime-rich country. -They choose not to assimilate into our culture, choosing not even to learn English. That is my conclusion. Back to you, Con, for your rebuttal and conclusion. [1] http://www.infowars.com... Many of the other things that have not been cited come from Ann Coulter's Adios America! (The Left's plan to turn our country into a Third World hellhole)	PRO	72
72	Sa6458ad5-A65359200	Illegal Immigrants should be deported, anchor babies or not.	Illegal immigrants are NOT good for the economy. The 1st source you cited is about LEGAL immigrants. Remember, this debate is about illegal immigrants. Illegal immigrants get privileges paid for by tax dollars. They get free health care and education that the middle class has to pay for. And remember, most of these illegals don't pay taxes. Illegals also steal jobs from regular American people. This means that illegals ARE damaging our economy. [1] Consider the fact that Mexico is a bad country in general. Since we have pretty much open borders, the states bordering Mexico will have to endure gangs and drug cartels that come from Mexico. [1] Also, is it really relevant to mention population decline? Is that such a bad thing? [1] http://www.wvwnews.net...	PRO	73
73	Sa6458ad5-Ae0eac0fb	Illegal Immigrants should be deported, anchor babies or not.	"Rebuttal ""Illegal immigrants do in fact increase crime."" No, I've already showed that studies show that there is no link between immigration and crime [1]. ""You know all of those drug cartels and murderers in Mexico? Guess what, they're coming here illegally. How in any does having drug cartels and murderers LOWER crime?"" I've also already pointed out that this is a debate about migrants rather than the larger consequences of having an insecure boarder with a developing country, if you wanted to debate securing the boarder make a debate about securing the boarder. Remember many migrants from Latin America to escape the high crime rate [2]. ""Having an insecure border with a developing nation is relevant, because it means more illegals can come here, and we don't deport them, which encourages more illegals."" As I previously said if you want to debate the consequences of having an insecure border create a debate on the insecure boarder not the migrants. ""The process to get in does take time and effort, but it's better than having to live the rest of your life knowing you're a criminal."" No, you actually cannot get in. If you lack any kind of specialist skills or a spouse with US citizenship you will find it almost impossible to gain entrance to the US through any kind of legal path. ""Those Spanish people you mentioned? They were forced to come here and assimilate, because no one else spoke Spanish. Now, however, we have so many illegals coming in that they don't even bother learning Spanish, because we've become pretty much a bi-lingual country where you don't even have to speak English."" Well no there were hundreds of thousands of hispanic people living in the US in that part of the 19th century and they could have easily created their own community but they didn't. The same will happen with latin american migrants today. Conclusion: Illegal migration is necessary to the US economy in the absence of a significantly reformed immigration system. There are no significant economic or social long term effects of illegal migration. Deportation significantly hurts US interests abroad. Therefore it is preferable no to engage in mass deportation. [1] http://www.cato.org... [2] http://www.washingtonpost.com..."	CON	74
74	Sa6458ad5-A310ce503	Illegal Immigrants should be deported, anchor babies or not.	"Rebuttal ""Illegal immigrants are NOT good for the economy. The 1st source you cited is about LEGAL immigrants. Remember, this debate is about illegal immigrants."" I am aware, the studies behind that article refer to both legal and illegal migrants. Also can you show a serous reason to separate the two? ""Illegal immigrants get privileges paid for by tax dollars. They get free health care and education that the middle class has to pay for."" Under very limited circumstances they do however this is not at all the vast majority of illegal immigrants. The only program you could site for this is education which the US has to provide due to article 26 of the UDHR [1]. The other issue with education is that the money isn't lost, it's put back into the hands of the teachers, those who make the equipment for schools ect and this most certainly does not harm the economy. ""Illegal immigrants get privileges paid for by tax dollars. They get free health care and education that the middle class has to pay for. And remember, most of these illegals don't pay taxes. Illegals also steal jobs from regular American people. This means that illegals ARE damaging our economy."" To claim that illegal immigrants don't pay tax is entirely false, most forms of tax are unavoidable. For the working class (which most illegal immigrants belong to) a much larger percentage of their income is taken by regressive taxes (like sales tax). It is be correct that they don't pay quite as much tax as do other Americans of similar income but they do still pay a significant amount in tax. However this also isn't a serious argument when most poorer people do not save much (if any) of their income [2], this means that they re-inject what money they do make into the local economy rather than removing it from the economy and making it untaxable. ""Consider the fact that Mexico is a bad country in general. Since we have pretty much open borders, the states bordering Mexico will have to endure gangs and drug cartels that come from Mexico."" This is irrelevant to the immigrants and no... hezbollah is not operating in Mexico... ""Also, is it really relevant to mention population decline? Is that such a bad thing?"" Yes. At the very least population decline is linked to catastrophic economic consequences [3]. Continued Argument As one of the richest countries on the planet the US has a moral obligation to take in citizens from poorer nations and this is morally intuitive to third party observers of the situation. Even if you want to dismiss your moral obligation acting in a pathological manor significantly damages the image of the US abroad. This is the case in much of Europe where as a result the people are marginally more likely elect less pro US governments which will damage the US geo-politically. However where this really matters is in the Islamic world where you give groups like Daesh and Al Qaeda invaluable propaganda material. In summary ignore your obligations to humanity at your peril. [1] http://www.un.org... [2] http://money.cnn.com... [3] A Concise History of World Population by Simon Smith Kuznets"	CON	75
75	Sa6458ad5-Afe1974e9	Illegal Immigrants should be deported, anchor babies or not.	"Illegal immigration is a huge problem these days. Mexicans find ways across the borders without legally entering the country. Now, these illegal immigrants are living in our country, supported by taxpayer dollars. What do we do with these immigrants who committed a crime to get here? Well, we let them stay and not be criminally prosecuted. An illegal immigrant who has a child while in America, even as an illegal, can stay. Their child gets citizenship because of the 14th Amendment, and we can't deport them back to Mexico, because that would be ""wrong"". If you accept this debate, please be civil. I would prefer not to hear Democrats calling me a ""racist"" or using any term of the sort. Here's how this debate will work; Round 1: Opening arguments Rounds 2 and 3: Continuing arguments and Rebuttal Round 3: Full Rebuttal and Conclusion Let the debate about illegal immigration begin."	PRO	76
76	S17e94e37-A7918d4ec	Why Marijuana is not good to smoke and should be illegal	Let me go over the facts of Marijuana / Weed 1.Marijuana is a harmful substance because it has 421 chemicals. 2.Marijuana is stronger than it was 10 years ago, and this new, potent 3.marijuana presents dangers unrecognized years ago. 4.Marijuana is far worse for the lungs than tobacco. 5.Marijuana causes damage to the reproductive system. 6.The psychoactive chemicals in marijuana are fat soluble and stay in the human body for a month, increasing the danger of exposure. 7.Marijuana causes brain damage and a behavioral disorder known as amotivational syndrome. The Side Effects Marijuana causes problems with short term memory, increased heart rate, paranoia, and anxiety. The user also may experience dry-mouth and throat. This is called cotton mouth. Some people may experience panic attacks but this is very rare. Some short term effects of using marijuana includes sleepiness, difficulty of tracking time, blood shot eyes, listening effectively, and forming conception. Because marijuana users smoke unfiltered smoke deeply and then try to hold the smoke in there lungs as long as possible marijuana has a possibility of damaging the lungs. But it is reported that cigarettes are worse to the lungs then marijuana will ever be. The media still misinforms people on this fact. Marijuana effects the sex and hormones in every user. In males smoking marijuana can lower there testosterone. Regular marijuana users can also lead to abnormal sperm or immature sperm production. For females marijuana can prolong there menstrual cycle, making females having there period irregular. It may take a few months before the menstrual cycle goes back to normal. While the female is pregnant, it has been reported for frequent users there recently born babies have a weak central nervous system. And the babies have an abnormal response to lights and sound. The babies will have a high pitched cry, is a sign of a baby having a drug withdraw. The Truth Invovling Marijuana It is impossible to overdose on marijuana. There has not been one report at all that someone has overdose or had an accident relating to weed. Marijuana has been known for many cancer patients. The reason for this marijuana causes the aging cells to die off before they become cancerous. Many people believe that smoking marijuana and driving is worse than getting behind the wheel drunk. Shockingly there is data that shows people high on marijuana show more sober, and more concentrated than a drunk driver. Notice how nobody hears about a car accident on the new relating to the usage of marijuana? The only thing being reported on the news involving marijuana are the traffickers that get caught with a large quantity of it. 65% of people who get arrest are for just simply having passion. Marijuana helps many illness symptoms. Like with cancer chemotherapy it causes the symptoms nausea and vomiting. Using marijuana the active ingredient THC reduces the vomiting and nausea. For the patients that are infected with AID/HIV's have the symptoms of low appetite, and loss of lean muscle mass. With marijuana it makes the patient have the craving to eat. Which reduces the loss of muscles. There is much more. With pain and muscles spasms witch is related to epilepsy marijuana reduces the muscle spasms, and relieves depression for this patient. Lastly with glaucoma (this is an illness that causes blindness due to increase pressure inside the eyeball) marijuana when smoked reduces the pressure in the eyeball. Marijuana also might reduce the blood flow to the optic nerve, exacerbating the loss of vision.	PRO	77
77	S17e94e37-Aab8dcf35	Why Marijuana is not good to smoke and should be illegal	"I have mistaken of not putting my sources up, but how about your theories? 'Marijuana causes damage to the reproductive system.' 'source?' Marijuana does have an effect, given that so many metabolites and other things are left behind. It also decreases the number of sperms in a male body or Habitual use lowers sperm count and causes a decrease in sexdrive for men. With the female reproductive system, it can It can kill of your eggs, so you will no longer be able to produce babies, and if your on marijuana while you are pregnant, your baby will be born with an addiction to marijuana, and most likely die in three to four days after birth. ""Marijuana causes brain damage and a behavioral disorder known as amotivational syndrome."" 'Not only does marijuana show no evidence of causing brain damage, it has actually been shown to PROMOTE THE GROWTH OF NEW BRAIN CELLS. [2]' It has not been actually proven that marijuana makes you brain regrow cells. Studies done on the subject have POINTED TO THAT POSSIBILITY. But nothing is conclusive as of right now. ""The Truth Involving Marijuana"" 'You know you're arguing AGAINST marijuana...right? Did you actually read any of that or just copy&paste it? A lot of the is making a case FOR marijuana.' I know that i am against marijuana, i did not copy & paste any of the detail. Im explaining the truth. Thats all. Now let me copy and paste it so you can read it AGAIN. 'The Truth Invovling Marijuana There has not been one report at all that someone has overdose or had an accident relating to weed. But it is POSSIBLE TO OVERDOSE ON MARIJUANA. Marijuana has been known for many cancer patients. The reason for this marijuana causes the aging cells to die off before they become cancerous. Many people believe that smoking marijuana and driving is worse than getting behind the wheel drunk. Shockingly there is data that shows people high on marijuana show more sober, and more concentrated than a drunk driver. Notice how nobody hears about a car accident on the new relating to the usage of marijuana? The only thing being reported on the news involving marijuana are the traffickers that get caught with a large quantity of it. 65% of people who get arrest are for just simply having passion. Marijuana helps many illness symptoms. Like with cancer chemotherapy it causes the symptoms nausea and vomiting. Using marijuana the active ingredient THC reduces the vomiting and nausea. For the patients that are infected with AID/HIV's have the symptoms of low appetite, and loss of lean muscle mass. With marijuana it makes the patient have the craving to eat. Which reduces the loss of muscles. There is much more. With pain and muscles spasms witch is related to epilepsy marijuana reduces the muscle spasms, and relieves depression for this patient. Lastly with glaucoma (this is an illness that causes blindness due to increase pressure inside the eyeball) marijuana when smoked reduces the pressure in the eyeball. Marijuana also might reduce the blood flow to the optic nerve, exacerbating the loss of vision.'"	PRO	78
78	S17e94e37-A62e87c57	Why Marijuana is not good to smoke and should be illegal	"REBUTTAL ""I have mistaken of not putting my sources up"" .....You still haven't provided any sources. ""Marijuana does have an effect, given that so many metabolites and other things are left behind. It also decreases the number of sperms in a male body or Habitual use lowers sperm count and causes a decrease in sexdrive for men. With the female reproductive system, it can It can kill of your eggs, so you will no longer be able to produce babies, and if your on marijuana while you are pregnant, your baby will be born with an addiction to marijuana, and most likely die in three to four days after birth."" You've made some very bold statements here without any evidence whatsoever. Unable to reproduce? Miscarriages? Really? Do you really believe this? There are no legitimate medical research that suggests anything like this. ""It has not been actually proven that marijuana makes you brain regrow cells. Studies done on the subject have POINTED TO THAT POSSIBILITY. But nothing is conclusive as of right now."" Sure, it isn't proven. All we did was introduce THC to lab rats and observe that they spontaneously started growing new brain cells. No biggy. Probably just a coincidence. ""Now let me copy and paste it so you can read it AGAIN."" Thanks. That's really helpful. Especially when it makes it look like you wrote a bunch of new arguments when all you have are a few lines. ""But it is POSSIBLE TO OVERDOSE ON MARIJUANA."" It is theoretically possible to overdose on anything. But no, no one is EVER going to overdose on marijuana. You would pass out loooooooong before you had enough time and effort to consume enough to kill you. Even then, it wouldn't kill you because there's anything inherently toxic about marijuana. It wold just kill you because it's a bad idea to put that much of anything inside you. OTHER MISC ARGUMENTS The war on marijuana has ruined the lives of millions of people and has made America the number one country for locking up it's own citizens. http://monthlyreview.org... https://fbcdn-sphotos-a.akamaihd.net... Also, it's worth noting that smoking marijuana, not only doesn't hurt lung function, but has actually been found to increase lung capacity because those who do it tend to take in deep breathes and hold. http://www.aidsmeds.com..."	CON	79
79	S17e94e37-A9f0e9966	Why Marijuana is not good to smoke and should be illegal	Challenge acceted! yyyyyyyyyyyyyyeah	CON	80
80	S5501e83e-Af3517010	Terminally ill patients should be given the option of assisted death	Do not plagiarize 4.) no religion 5.) Be polite, don't swear. This debate will be on terminally ill patients having the right to assisted death. I will be on the pro side.	PRO	81
81	S5501e83e-A618c7901	Terminally ill patients should be given the option of assisted death	I accept	CON	82
82	S90cc69d8-Af85d2a54	States/local municipalities should have the right to restrict handgun ownership to eligible citizens	Again I would like to apologize my forfeit earlier in this debate, that being said I heavily urge a pro vote.	PRO	83
83	S90cc69d8-Acec2bd58	States/local municipalities should have the right to restrict handgun ownership to eligible citizens	I'll let whoever accepts go first	CON	84
