	id	conclusion	premises	stance	rank
0	S8d325e50-A2bb9a8c4	A two-state solution is best for peace	Palestinians and Israelis will not be able to live together in peace in the same state any time in the foreseeable future. The idea that Palestinians and Israelis can live in peace and harmony in one state, with tolerance for each other and in keeping with democratic principles of inclusion, is simply naive. This idea has been made impossible by nearly a century of direct conflict between these people. While this might change in coming centuries, it is unacceptable to adopt a one-state policy now based on these naive ideas. Israeli President Shimon Peres has argued: “Establishing a single multinational country is a tenuous path that does not bode well for peace but, rather, enforces the conflict's perpetuation. Lebanon, ravaged by bloodshed and instability, represents only one of many examples of an undesirable quagmire of this nature.”(1) This stance has been endorsed by leaders and officials from around the world: US special envoy George Mitchell has stated “In the case of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, we believe that the two-state solution, two states living side by side in peace, is the best and the only way to resolve this conflict.”(2) Pope Benedict XVI has similarly called on Israel’s leadership to embrace the two-state solution for peace with the Palestinians: “I plead with all those responsible to explore every possible avenue in the search for a just resolution of the outstanding difficulties, so that both peoples may live in peace in a homeland of their own, within secure and internationally recognized borders.”(3) Even Colonel Gaddafi, the late Libyan leader, argued that a two-state solution was essential for peace.(1) The reason the two-state solution has been recognised as the best for peace is because it respects the democratic will of both peoples for a state of their own. As Peres argues, “The Jewish people want and deserve to live in peace in their rightful, historical homeland. The Palestinian people want and deserve their own land, their own political institutions and their right to self-determination. It is vital that this cause be based on the prospect of coexistence between Jews and Arabs, which translates into cooperation in fields such as the economy, tourism, the environment and defence. Achieving all this will be possible only by granting each people its own state and borders, to enable their citizens to pray according to their faiths, cultivate their cultures, speak their own languages and safeguard their heritages.”(1) Because only a two-state solution allows for this peaceful co-existence and development, a two-state solution is best for peace and thus more justified than a one-state solution.	PRO	1
1	S8d325e50-A3cff66d0	Israelis and Palestinians are too intermingled for a two-state solution	A two-state solution could succeed in partitioning the land and the two peoples by including the largest Israeli settlements within Israel, possibly by allowing for non-contiguous “islands” of Israeli territory around the larger settlements surrounded by the new Palestinian state.(13) In any case, a two-state solution can find practical solutions to these problems, while having the advantage of solving the inherent and insolvable problems of having two opposed nations and identities in perpetual conflict within a single state.	CON	2
2	S8d325e50-Af7ffd3b8	Israelis and Palestinians are too intermingled for a two-state solution	A million Palestinians live throughout Israel even without the West Bank and Gaza strip, and when the Israeli settlements in the West Bank are considered also, it becomes clear that dividing these two populations is simply unfeasible. By comparison, the feasibility of a bi-national state, with the two peoples living in a kind of federation, seems workable. Given this 'reality' on the ground, the most practical solution seems to be a united democratic state offering equal citizenship for all: One Person, One Vote.(12) The ever-expanding Israeli settlements in the West Bank particularly represent a barrier to the separation of the two peoples into two states. In 1993, when Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin and Palestine Liberation Organization leader Yasser Arafat famously shook hands on the White House lawn, there were 109,000 Israelis living in settlements across the West Bank (not including Jerusalem). Today there are 275,000, in more than 230 settlements and strategically placed 'outposts' designed to cement a permanent Jewish presence on Palestinian land.(10) Forcibly removing settlers would be too difficult, could foment civil strife among Jewish Israeli citizens, and would create a level of resentment among fundamentalist Jews that would likely inflame the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.	PRO	3
3	S8d325e50-A6589ee1f	Only a two-state solution can satisfy both sides	A two-state solution can offer sufficient territory for both Israelis and Palestinians. For Israel this would mean keeping the vast majority of areas inhabited by Israeli citizens within the state of Israel. The two-state solution would also, however, offer sufficient land to the Palestinians. While cynics might question the size of the West Bank and Gaza, optimists should look no further than Singapore for reassurance. The area of the West Bank and Gaza is nine times as large as Singapore's, yet the combined population of Palestinians in both regions is smaller than that of Singapore. Singapore enjoys one of the highest standards of living in the world. The Palestinians are capable of achieving similar success, through instituting a modern economy based on science, technology and the benefits of peace.(1) Moreover, throughout the years polls have consistently showed respectable Israeli and Palestinian majorities in favour of a negotiated two-state settlement.(6) Even the Iranian President Mahmud Ahmadinezhad has stated that Iran would support a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The success of a two-state solution, therefore, would, at a minimum, gain the support and possibly cooperation of the Iranians. This would be valuable diplomatically, particularly in resolving the larger conflict between Iran and the West.(7) Therefore, the best way to satisfy both sides and achieve peace is to adopt a two-state solution, which is therefore the most just solution.	PRO	4
4	S8d325e50-A107eadec	Only a two-state solution can satisfy both sides	Palestinian support for two-state solution declined around 2008, and is waning even among the 'moderate' Palestinian camp, as well as among additional Arab elements.(8) It is also naïve to think that a two-state solution would gain the favour or even support of Iran. Iran wants to be the dominant power in the Middle East, and it wants nuclear weapons so that it can threaten not only Israel but other states in the region.(9) To this end, Iran has an incentive to keep the Israeli-Palestinian conflict big and bloody so as to distract the West from its own regional agenda. Furthermore, an independent Palestinian state would probably be perceived as a security threat to some of its neighbours, particularly Jordan, and thus might actually prompt further tensions.(	CON	5
5	S8d325e50-Acffbf811	Only a one-state solution can end the conflict	It was no less a man than Albert Einstein who believed in 'sympathetic cooperation' between 'the two great Semitic peoples' and who insisted that 'no problem can be solved from the same level of consciousness that created it.' A relative handful of Israelis and Palestinians are beginning to survey the proverbial new ground, considering what Einstein's theories would mean in practice. They might take heart from Einstein's friend Martin Buber, the great philosopher who advocated a bi-national state of 'joint sovereignty,' with 'complete equality of rights between the two partners,' based on 'the love of their homeland that the two peoples share.'(10) This position has been adopted by some Palestinian leaders: In October 2005, Nusseibeh, then president of al-Quds University in Jerusalem, and several other liberal Palestinian political activists and intellectuals held a press conference in Jerusalem, stating: “We are pressing now for equal political and legal rights within a single, democratic Israel, and we are confident that our Israeli brothers and sisters will welcome us and that together we will build a free and democratic state in which Jews and Arabs will live together in peace.”(5) A two-state solution, however, would most likely foster continued conflict, for two reasons. Firstly, a Palestinian state would be base for terrorism. As seen when Israel withdrew from Gaza, the Palestinians there did not embrace the two-state solution, but the Muslim hardliners who controlled Gaza continued to want nothing less than Israel's destruction, and Gaza's newly-elected Hamas government spent much of its money not on the welfare of Palestinians but on attacking Israel.(11) Similarly, a two-state solution makes Israel too narrow and vulnerable. A two-state solution would make Israel only 6 miles wide at a number of points where the West Bank juts into Israeli territory.(1) This creates a number of vulnerabilities, particularly the risk that Israel may become divided during a war (a not unlikely prospect). For all these reasons, a two-state solution cannot offer true peace, but a one-state solution built on co-operation and equal rights can, and so a one-state solution is more just.	PRO	6
6	S8d325e50-A977234df	A two-state solution is best for peace	Simply because past conflict has existed is no reason to believe that peace and understanding cannot be established through co-operation, shared institutions and interaction. This is exactly what a one-state solution would foster in the long term, but which a two-state solution prevents by separating the two communities. Even if they each have a state of their own, unless the Israelis and Palestinians learn to live in proximity to each other in co-operation, there will be no peace.	CON	7
7	S8d325e50-A7b688662	A one-state solution mean Israel would cease to be either democratic or Jewish	The two-state solution would have Israel relinquish the West Bank, known to the Israelis as “Judea and Samaria”. Yet, these are historic regions to the Jews. Israel would similarly have to undermine its identity to give up these two regions, and so any two-state solution acceptable to Israel would have to mean the retention of Judea and Samaria. Because of the large Palestinian population in the West Bank, even a two-state solution would mean Israel could not be both Jewish and democratic.(	CON	8
8	S8d325e50-Aba7dc64a	Only a one-state solution can guarantee equal rights for all	A one-state solution is the most just because a two-state solution would inherently result in a worse situation for the Palestinians than the Israelis, whereas a one-state solution would guarantee equal rights for all. The July 2007 Madrid meeting in favour of a one-state solution put firth that: “A two-state solution is predicated on the unjust premise that peace can be achieved by granting limited national rights to Palestinians living in the areas occupied in 1967, while denying the rights of Palestinians inside the 1948 borders and in the Diaspora.” Thus, the two-state solution condemns Palestinian citizens of Israel to permanent second-class status within their homeland, in a racist state that denies their rights by enacting laws that privilege Jews constitutionally, legally, politically, socially and culturally. Moreover, the two-state solution denies Palestinian refugees their internationally recognized right of return.”(14) A two-state solution, particularly one that enables a Jewish state, would also most likely alienate the Palestinian population remaining within Israel. At best, they would be second class citizens. At worst, they would be pushed out, directly or indirectly.(13) A two-state solution, and the establishment of a Jewish state, would also kill the idea of the return of Palestinian refugees that were expelled from Israel during various wars and conflicts. The Palestinian state created would also- if past experience is any judge- be highly divided (between factions such as Hamas and Fatah) and dysfunctional. This situation would have a material impact on the quality of life of citizens of the new Palestinian.(15)(16) Therefore, a one-state solution is more just than a two-state solution.	PRO	9
9	S8d325e50-Afa950a8c	A one-state solution mean Israel would cease to be either democratic or Jewish	As described in the above quote by Peres, the vast majority of Israelis desire to live in a Jewish homeland in which they can define their own institutions and culture in light of their Jewish heritage. A one-state solution, however, would undermine Israel's legitimacy and internationally recognized right to exist as a sovereign Jewish state in the land of the Jewish forefathers. From Israel's perspective, it is not possible for the Jewish people to accept an arrangement that signifies the end of the existence of a Jewish state, which would be the result of a one-state solution, as the state could not be considered a Jewish one if it housed a very large Palestinian population, possibly even a Palestinian majority.(1) For this reason it is unlikely that any one-state solution would be truly democratic, and rather would be a situation of an Israeli minority ruling over a Palestinian majority, who would be largely excluded from the running of the country and determining their own affairs.(4) A one-state solution would only produce an explosive situation in which Jews would dominate the economy and most other aspects of the new state, creating a reality of exploitation. At that point in time, the new state would be a new form of occupation that would only set the conflict on a more violent track.(5) Therefore, the new state created by a one-state solution would be unacceptable either to Israelis or to Palestinians, as it would cease to be either Jewish or democratic, and so would not be a just outcome. Only a two-state solution can keep Israel Jewish and democratic, and allow a Palestinian state similarly to be Arab and democratic, as it would most likely wish.	PRO	10
10	S8d325e50-Abfc4f51d	in the conflict between Israel and Palestine, a two-state solution is better justified than a one-state solution	A two-state solution is best for peace	PRO	11
11	S8d325e50-A1c0aa19d	in the conflict between Israel and Palestine, a two-state solution is better justified than a one-state solution	Israelis and Palestinians are too intermingled for a two-state solution	CON	12
12	S8d325e50-Aeaa08cc8	in the conflict between Israel and Palestine, a two-state solution is better justified than a one-state solution	Only a two-state solution can satisfy both sides	PRO	13
13	S8d325e50-A44dcc22	in the conflict between Israel and Palestine, a two-state solution is better justified than a one-state solution	Only a one-state solution can end the conflict	CON	14
14	S8d325e50-Ae7054cc3	in the conflict between Israel and Palestine, a two-state solution is better justified than a one-state solution	Only a one-state solution can guarantee equal rights for all	CON	15
15	S8d325e50-A546480c6	in the conflict between Israel and Palestine, a two-state solution is better justified than a one-state solution	A one-state solution mean Israel would cease to be either democratic or Jewish	PRO	16
16	S8d325e50-Ae0663722	Only a one-state solution can end the conflict	These arguments about 'sympathetic cooperation' ignore the realities on the ground of two people who are and seem certain to remain violently opposed to each other as long as they struggle over control over a single state rather than each having a state of their own. Furthermore, offering the Palestinians a sovereign state of their own, free from Israeli control, would likely go a long way to satisfying the vast majority of Palestinians, and thus actually make a war against Israel far less likely. As Peres argues: “Indeed, six miles will be too narrow to guarantee full security, which only reinforces our belief that Israel's safety is not embedded only in territorial defence but in peace. Peace provides breadth of wings, even when the waist is narrow.”(	CON	17
17	S8d325e50-A19885935	Only a one-state solution can guarantee equal rights for all	The most just outcome is that which best secures peace. Both sides will be compelled to make certain concessions, and some inequalities and discrepancies between the two new states are unavoidable. However, on balance the benefits of peace and security for both peoples will outweigh the harms of any concessions or inequalities, so long as both peoples receive a state of their own in which they can control their own destinies, which is the only way to ensure peace.	CON	18
18	S2cc38a7d-A212d2a09	No solution to the conflict	Maybe the killing of murderers doesn’t win the war, but it brings victory of a battle. If the Palestinians see that they will be made accountable for their actions, and will be killed for killing others, they may think twice before killing others.	CON	19
19	S6af79c61-A3bda9ca6	Israeli School Trips to Auschwitz Should be Banned	Thanks for your quick response, Con. You have pretty much gone straight to rebuttals (instead of opening arguments) but oh well...it does not matter. **Argument Defence** -History. Here I didn't say that history was an excuse, I said that arguing about history/learning being a reason for these trips is an excuse; as political motivation is the real primary force behind them. They further add to the idea that Jews have enemies (in 21st century modern context) and encourage Israeli nationalism--there's no forgetting that these teenagers will be entering the Israeli Defence Forces when they become 18, regardless of what they actually want to do in life. So upon visiting a place that was established *because* of war, they'll then be going to assist another ongoing war. One that may be different but is nevertheless still a war with many nationalist elements--so, in this sense there is hypocrisy involved and an unchanged state of ignorance about history and what nationalism can actually do to people. In my opinion, it would be more productive for Israeli teenagers to participate in programs with Palestinian teenagers; to work on relations in this area and review their present-time situation. -Nationalism. This addresses some of the above points; but I would like to point out that while recognising that the words of Israel's leader are indeed nationalistic, and that there may be political motivations for visiting camps like Auschwitz, he still underplays it. He states that there's a difference between politicians using verbal rhetoric and undertaking actual action, but Hitler was enabled by his own verbal rhetoric (Mein Kampf, and of course all the speeches, propaganda, etc.) so what one says is extremely important. Netanyahu is Israel's leader, therefore he has great influence over people and each speech that he gives matters. Moreover, one could contend that he is more than capable of giving 'action' as well considering the ongoing conflict with Palestine. It is a different scenario to that of Nazi Germany, but, as I have already mentioned--nationalism is an undeniable much a part of it. It is ironic Jewish people hated having the Star of David forced upon their clothes in WW2, yet now you have countless Israeli flags at Auschwitz...specifically only there to claim an identity and a nation, it is certainly not as if they are holding or waving them in support of the Jews who really suffered and lost their lives at Auschwitz; it is a political statement. -Disrespect. Back to one of my previous points, if a Polish person went around waving their flag or if a Russian did the same with the former Soviet Union or Russian flag--I'm sure people would find it most odd, and of course, most likely disrespectful to Jews. So the same standards should apply. And again, disrespectful behaviour from Israeli teenagers towards other people who visit Auschwitz (and towards locals) is simply inexcusable, and recurrent enough to actually be a valid reason for banning; they approach the camp with entitlement and a belief that they have additional privileges, as I have mentioned in round two. That you actually have people in Israel recognising the problem (like Zeev Dagani, the school principle referenced) shows that it is a legitimate and quite significant issue. In regards to the practicality of such a ban and how it would be enforced, I would think that the best option would be for Israeli schools to do it themselves. The Polish government would not approach such a subject, or be allowed to enforce a ban like that. But Israeli school principles could actually decide to not pursue further trips or rather establish their own 'ban'/boycott , which would be a positive move in terms of cost on parents and of course in relation to nationalism. -Cost. Con again plays down this issue and attempts to justify the expensive costs *and* travel companies actually charging more than they should. He states that his research has only pointed to 400 dollars, but flights to Krakow (Poland) from Israel can be found for under 200 dollars, accommodation per student I think could be secured for 100 dollars...so the fact remains that families are being overcharged for what is 'supposed' to be an educational trip. But, it seems to me that in addition to politics the trips to Auschwitz have less to do with education and more to do with profit. Con also uses the term 'only 9' travel bosses, but it was certainly enough for a non-Israeli international news paper to report on...and certainly enough to attract criticism in Israel itself.	PRO	20
20	S6af79c61-Aa914339	Israeli School Trips to Auschwitz Should be Banned	"Thanks again Con, of course I can agree as to the heinousness of the Holocaust; this was a time period in which millions of Jews faced the most brutal treatment and Auschwitz is a clear example of this--so this isn't a debate on the Holocaust as such, but whether, looking at present time, Israeli schools should be able to make trips to Auschwitz-Birkenau. Just to make it clear to Con as well, I am not only referring to Auschwitz as a camp that Israeli students should not be permitted visits to--but all WW2 camps used by the Nazi's. **Opening Argument** Auschwitz-Birkenau was established by the Nazi regime in 1940, in the beginning of WW2. Originally it was intended as a camp for political prisoners who had failed to copy with Nazi agenda (1.) http://www.history.com... Only a small number of Jews were deported to the camp, until 1942 (2.) http://auschwitz.org... At this point, along with other camps in the German area of control (Belzec, Bergen-Belsen, Buchenwald, Chelmno, Dachau, etc.) one of the primary purpose's became to imprison Jewish people-from all over central Europe and East Europe; even parts of the West and South were not immune. This all occurred in the three year 'final-solution', in which the intention was to rid Europe, literally, of Jewish presence. The atrocities that took place are fairly common knowledge--gas was also used in other camps, and in Nazi vans, but the high number of people killed at Auschwitz is what has given its reputation today. It is estimated that at least 960,000 Jews died there (3.) https://www.ushmm.org... In January 1945, frontline (Soviet) Ukrainian troops entered Auschwitz, many Jews had previously been forced to on marches by the Germans, but there were about 1000 very sick prisoners left. I will now go onto my main contentions-- this may be a controversial point, but when Israeli students visit Auschwitz it is not necessarily for the reason people assume they are doing so; 'education' and being made aware of ones history is often just an excuse. People can learn about any topic matter anywhere--visiting the place isn't necessary. Israeli Jews come from a very nationalistic country, with very nationalistic ideals. At present they have a leader who quite casually makes statements such as: 'they will not put us back into (the) gas chambers' in his speeches, when he is basically trying to defend Israel's domestic and international approach towards politics; nationalism and the idea that there is an enemy, and that you must fight against it, are very commonplace things for Israeli's. Which thus brings me to the point of Israeli teenagers when they visit Auschwitz--in many situations, they lack decorum. It's completely 'normal' for them to bring Israeli flags and wave them around. I would argue is disrespectful to the memory of Jews who were actually at Auschwitz, in particular to the ones who had no real concept of what 'Israel' would be, who were happy in Europe prior to the Holocaust and led relatively contented lives there. Moreover, it is also disrespectful to all the non-Jews that were taken to Auschwitz. Though fewer in numbers, they still went, and some still died. These would include the Polish prisoners, Roma gypsies, Soviet prisoners of war, etc.--the third link I gave offers the statistics on non-Jewish prisoners who were imprisoned and killed. I'm sure for any non-Jews who come from Soviet countries, it is not exactly typical for them to wave around their national flag and take selfies. This is such common knowledge that even a Facebook group was set-up to ridicule the Israeli's taking selfie pictures at Auschwitz (4.) http://www.haaretz.com... And to show the flags: http://i.imgur.com... http://i.imgur.com... http://i.imgur.com... http://i.imgur.com... http://i.imgur.com... Now, to me this cheapens the place and it is unhealthy for teenagers to have such a preoccupation with their national flag, especially when considering all the political issues and misdemeanours in their own country. In addition, from first-hand accounts, Israeli students can be extremely gregarious when they visit Auschwitz, often disregarding others visitors and behaving as if they have 'special' rights. One Polish news outlet, Przekroj weekly, wrote a story of young Israeli's damaging hotels and behaving rudely towards locals (5.) polishpress.wordpress.com/2007/05/11/israeli-teenagers-are-a-nuisance-in-poland/amp/ (Unfortunately I cannot link any other article, as it is in Polish.) One Israeli principle, in 2016, decided to cancel all Auschwitz trips for his school (6.) http://www.timesofisrael.com... He stated that: 'Some of the children who go on the trip return from it more chauvinistic, and I definitely think that that""s not how the trip should be.' 'If there is a humane and universalist atmosphere in society or in the country, the trip can strengthen these messages, but when the atmosphere in the nation today is delegitimization of the other and when the atmosphere in society is ultranationalist, then this trip serves those trends.' And: 'The trip in recent years is a trip with tendencies that are more belligerent and more suited to the atmosphere and the regime in Israel, which includes hatred of the other and fear of the other.' He also cited the high costs and obvious emotional trauma that may be felt by many of the young students. For most schools, the price per student to go to Auschwitz is at least 1000 dollars; which if you do the mathematics is overpriced and expensive. Nine Israeli travel bosses were fined for forming their own 'cartel' and overcharging schools by 20% (7.) http://www.telegraph.co.uk... I would personally argue more, given that accommodation and basic amenities in Poland are really very cheap. Anyway, I think this summarises my opening argument so I will wait for Cons)"	PRO	21
21	S6af79c61-Ac36e6209	Israeli School Trips to Auschwitz Should be Banned	**Closing Argument** Firstly I need to remind Con that I am not referring to 'Jews', but Israeli's, or more specifically--student groups from Israel. The Jewish identity is and should be different to that of the Israeli identity. I am Jewish for example, but I am not from Israel. The Jewish identity, as I see it, is an identity that encompasses many different countries and should rather revolve around the religion itself rather than *politics* or one specific national identity. I personally see no issue with having other Jewish elements at Auschwitz (lighting candles, holding prayer, etc.) This is what it would mean to truly pay respect to the Jews killed there--a national flag does not, especially as the people held and killed at Auschwitz were not from Israel; what value or meaning does it really hold for them? I am referring to Jews who had a Polish national identity, a Ukrainian national identity, Russian national identity, a Hungarian national identity...Jews who had lived in Europe for centuries; the Jewish men who had actually fought for Germany in the First World War--the Israeli flag, it holds invariably no intrinsic value to them. I'd also point out how emigration to Israel was a 'last resort' for some, quite a few tried to re-settle but found that they had obviously lost everything (family, friends, possessions/money). And a lot of Russian Jews did not emigrate until later, due to not being able to openly practice Judaism under Soviet rule. It remains that while Jews largely dominate Israel's population, Israel is not representative of Jewish people as a whole. (8.) https://en.m.wikipedia.org... The claim that (they) 'are angry and suffering Jews' just does not work, they are not angry and suffering. They are people that have a relatively nice life in Israel, and most of the ones that go come from wealthier backgrounds anyway as they have to pay the minimum $1000 (sometimes it's 1600) to actually make the trip. Many of their ancestors suffered, but they, themselves, are not suffering and have no legitimate personal reason to be angry. Which refers to the point I had regarding 'entitlement' when Israeli student groups visit Auschwitz, which leads to them disregarding other visitors; again I can't link anything specific as there's literally no additional sources, but I've heard various accounts of pushing, shoving and the like from Israeli students from people who've also been at Auschwitz at the time. And once more, regardless of the souls who perished there, how exactly do they feel about the Israeli flag being wavered about? Though I have relatives and friends who've visited Auschwitz, I have never gone myself but if I did and saw Israeli flags there I would be displeased. Onto some more of Cons points: He more or less admits that Israeli students would fare better learning about the current scenario: which is an ongoing and intrinsically harmful conflict with the Palestinians--one that Con is right in saying actually began before WW2, but certainly escalated some time after and with each war, the most recent one being only three years ago--a war which involved many casualties and fatalities, and with pretty high levels of propaganda...that's just so easy to believe. Auschwitz is basically a preserved site of suffering, not a platform for you to go around waving flags and flaunting your politics, the same should naturally be expected from non-Israeli's. In going on these trips to Auschwitz, Israeli teenagers are essentially buying into the idea that there is a 'common enemy' and a legitimate reason to be so preoccupied with the military and defending oneself. These days it is of course not Nazi Germany, it is Palestine and other Arab/Muslim states that they are made to believe they're fighting against. It cements the realisation that Jewish people have suffered...and will never suffer again, no matter what measures or what lengths one has to go to, to reach that. So things such as military combat, settlements on disputable land, lesser rights for Palestinians...they become justified. I'm also aware as to how long Zionism has existed, it has two separate forms: religious and political, but since the start of the last century the two become intertwined and Zionism as it practiced now--is a very negative thing. Con references how the Soviet flag being displayed at Auschwitz would indeed be offensive, on the basis of it being representative of a 'dictatorship'...but I would again argue that the Israeli flag and its political connotations, is extremely offensive for some; non-Jews and Jews alike. They library comparison is also not really varied, as we are talking about what was formally a death camp, and a controversial nation state. Con continues to agree with key parts of my argument (Zionist culture, etc.) but asserts that because of this culture, imposing a ban may very well be unrealistic--he has a point here, but it isn't exactly my argument; which is that there's *enough* objective reasons for such a ban to be in place. It's possible that with the more politically neutral principles that do it, it may become more of an acceptable thing; and there's at least enough parents who either just cannot afford it or see it as wasteful to spend that kind of money on one short trip. As for Israel's 15% Arab population and Arab teenagers being denied the right to see Auschwitz, Israeli (nationalistic) propaganda is also an issue for them--as they undertake mandatory conscription as well. But the possibility of a non-Israeli Jewish family paying that kind of cost is perhaps unlikely, to my knowledge, I have never heard of a Christian Arab or Muslim Arab family in Israel going on one of these trips. Concerning the cost, $400 is under half that of the minimum that each student is charged--$1000, which does indeed mean that parents are purposely being shortchanged and that these trips are a marketable area for travel companies in Israel. This strongly undermines the 'education' argument as I have previously noted, and I do not see how charging parents more than you should be (for a trip of this gravity) is justified. Anyway, I will leave my argument here. I thank you Con again for accepting this debate and doing his research! It was well-written and carefully considered.	PRO	22
22	S6af79c61-A378e7ad6	Israeli School Trips to Auschwitz Should be Banned	Thank you for an interesting and well-informed debate, *********************************************** Dealing with some of the points you raised this round: As you are a Jew, I am reluctant to question your expertise over your own religion and culture. But, as far as I understand it, the Jewish faith is separate from being a Jew (maternally speaking). Because everyone born of a Jew, is a Jew by definition it is more than just a religion but an hereditary cultural group. God's chosen people, with claim over the Promised Land (claim over Jerusalem), have been identified almost as if a racial group over time with certain stereotypical racial features. There are some minority factions of the faith (like Karaite Judaism) who believe that being born a Jew is the only qualification for being a Jew. Being a Jew, is to be part of all a culture, a religion, a specific national identity, and a race. One of the issues is that both Israel and Palestine claim ownership of Jerusalem. And because, traditionally Jews have looked to Jerusalem as a centre of their faith they have also looked towards Israel. I personally don't know why at the March of the Living event students of other nationalities (like Canada) would raise the Israeli flag if it weren't a symbol of Jewish solidarity as a whole. It's vexing. Why would non-Jewish Canadian students be showing solidarity for Jews by flying a flag that doesn't in any way represent Jews? Why would there be non-Jewish, Canadian, Zionists? (I know you can't respond in the debate but if you have the answer please put it in the comments). As regards to the Soviet flag, flying that would be like flying the swastika; it is a symbol of a brutal autocratic regime which ensued in millions of deaths. It is true that the USSR fought against the Nazis, under the Potsdam and Yalta treaties, but I would also have issue with Allied or USA flags flying over concentration camps because although some members of these groups faced the camps, it does not belong to them. If they did, there would almost be a colonist undertone (which we do not want to promote given how they did occupy Germany after WW2). Numerically and culturally, the Jews have the largest claim to the horrors of the Holocaust; Nazism and Judaism are inseparably linked in all of our minds. The Nazis massacred many other groups, the disabled, gypsies, homosexuals and I would have no problem with the LGBT flag flown in support of the latter. If the Israeli flag is being used to support Jews and not Israeli politics, then I think we would both agree that there isn't a problem with its use providing it doesn't encourage domestic anger and aggression in any way. I course don't mean to say that Israeli Jews are representative of all Jews, only that Israel has historically been a grounding centre for Jews. And, this still does not negate my proposition that 'you cannot deny any Jews access to the sites of the Holocaust.' Even if they act in a certain unfavourable way, Israeli Jews are still Jews and should not be denied the chance to visit a place where the genocide of their race occurred. I would go as far to say that all Jews, no matter of their politics, are entitled to visit a concentration camp if their finances permit it. Asking them not to denies their cultural identity; it is like preventing the various factions of black Americans from visiting the historic sites of the Civil Rights movement because some are ideologically in favour of black militancy. Too restrictive and not dealing with the problem: black militancy. The problem is Zionist militancy: not students going to concentration camps. Those who can should be tackling the former, not banning the latter. Israeli Jews have every right to be angry; forced to conscript to the Israeli army at 18, to fight a war with Palestine who continually proves to be a threat to Israel as Israel is to them. It was only in the year 2000 when Palestine bombed Israel; I'm sure this gives many affected a right to be angry. This does not excuse their behaviour. Being offended or angry is never an excuse to lash out and be truculent, even if it a reason. And as Jews, they identify with the Jewish struggle of their ancestors. Though the two conflicts aren't directly related, I don't think we can deny a group the right to culturally identify themselves and their current struggles with the past. Arab Israelis (15-20% of the population), because of their identification with Palestine, actually are not conscripted into the army. Some choose to volunteer (1). Therefore, I would say they would be exempt from your argument and should be allowed to fly to concentration camps through their schools. (1) http://www.ynetnews.com... Badly behaved students should be punished; not the entire school or school system as a whole. My analogy to the library was meant to illuminate how there ought to be a strict code of conduct, a respect for the environment, at concentration camps as though one were in a place one dared not act in a certain way. If individuals are being disrespectful in such environments they ought to be told off and perhaps acted against depending on the severity of their actions. I of course agree that commercial exploitation is unfair and should be reprimanded and discouraged. But, it doesn't mean that Israeli students cannot fly to concentration camps like Auschwitz or Flossenburg by non-exploitative companies available to them. Hopefully the nine bosses punished will provide a sufficient deterrent for others in the travel industry not to act in such a manner again. *********************************************** There I shall conclude. Again, thanks for the debate!	CON	23
23	S6af79c61-A358d0cde	Israeli School Trips to Auschwitz Should be Banned	By Israeli school trips I'm referring to excursions with high school students from Israel, and Auschwitz-Birkenau is a former concentration camp from WW2, located in south-west Poland and now open to visitors. As Pro I will be arguing that students from Israel should not be permitted *organised* trips there, Con will of course be arguing the opposite. Character limit is 8000, first round acceptance, then opening arguments, rebuttals and closing arguments. TheUnexaminedLife will be arguing as Con, I look forward to this debate and good luck to him)	PRO	24
24	S6af79c61-A214f65aa	Israeli School Trips to Auschwitz Should be Banned	Thanks for challenging me to this debate Emilrose. I'm sure that we can both agree that all the Nazi concentration camps across the Third Reich were an egregious moral atrocity to mankind, unable to be convincingly defended in any way whatsoever. So, not making light of this topic, I am interested in hearing why you think Israeli students should miss out on the opportunity to go to one of these camps, namely Auschwitz, and see for themselves this place where so much horror occurred.	CON	25
25	S6af79c61-A411e5feb	Israeli School Trips to Auschwitz Should be Banned	Responding to your main contentions-- 1 'History is often just an excuse' Even if it is an excuse, if history is given to these young people, should it not be permitted? I don't think anyone goes to Auschwitz as if it were a theme park and will certainly not come out unscathed. When I went to Auschwitz a fellow student described it as 'a factory of death'; it has a certain sombre atmosphere, a certain gloom, which isn't easily ignored. If they learn and feel this atmosphere, could this weigh up against some of the negative effects of their trip? 2 'Nationalistic ideals' Around 75% of the Israeli population is Jewish (1) so I can see perfectly why a political leader might use Holocaust rhetoric for their own political ends. I actually find this point you raise the most concerning. Before Hitler's rise to power, Germany's anti-Semite beliefs and policy of Germanification (of the purity of being German) were deep-rooted. He did not make up these ideas. To hear the same 'us and them' dichotomy used by a politican inciting nationalistic beliefs is concerning. For people to then act upon these beliefs at concentration camps, startling. But, this is a domestic problem and will not be solved by stopping people going to the camps (which have clearly become a symbol of their national identities and suffering). Their actions are the effect and not the cause, though in themselves are inexcusable if physically innocuous. Wouldn't it only stir up and make all the more fervent these nationalistic feelings if they were prevented from going to express their Jewish identities at European concentration camps? I imagine their feeling arise from some of the same problems Germany faced after WW1: a class divide, oppression by international powers and their conflict (with Palestine) which has caused lots of anger and desperation. It is only natural that the youth want to both express this anger (the Youth Bulge theory suggesting they the most likely to partake in social activism) and scapegoat people for nationalistic problems. Their leader is feeding into this by saying, 'they will not put us back into (the) gas chambers'. Non-colonial (interventionist) support and connections need to be offered to Israel to ease their pain; not a restriction on their freedom of movement. To do so would be to anger the nationalistic Israelis and to deprive an opportunity to those who aren't and go to Auschwitz for non-political reasons. Fortunately, unlike Germany's under the Weimar government, the Israeli economy is quite strong given its natural resources-- but this surely only fuels a proliferation of weaponry and conflict. (1) http://www.cbs.gov.il... (2) An explanation of the Israeli-Palestine conflict: http://www.huffingtonpost.co.uk... 3 Disrespectful of the Holocaust Animated by their strong emotions, youth behaviour at the concentration camps is surely offensive to many other visitors even if mostly harmless. Zeev Dagani (the principle of the school you cited) said that students felt 'emotional trauma' at Auschwitz-- and so they should. People should still be outraged and angry, not only because of political and cultural resonance with the Jewish people being part of the same social group. No one goes to a concentration camp and just takes selfies and protest. Perhaps disrespectful students could be rebuked by Polish staff and guards for poor behaviour, just as if a child were being disrespectful in any other place where a civilised composure was required. I again essentially see this is a problem of point (2). Their behaviour right now does not seem so damaging as to permit their ban from travelling, but only indicates their intrinsic state and attitudes given what is occuring in their country right now. If they were to physically escalate their actions, then on legal grounds the Polish government could pre-emptively stop an input of Israelis entering concentration camps. 4 Commercial abuses I don't think this is the crux of your argument. If rival and fair companies were established in Israel for sending students to Poland, I think you would still protest on the grounds of points 1-3. I have to agree that economic exploitation is not fair and deprives many poorer students of the opportunity of going. Travel costs however are high; taking the coach/train fairs, flights my research tells me that are around $400 as well as hotel prices. A 20% overprice is nothing but commercially exploiting students (a common international practice) but again (in that article you gave) occurred only with 9 travel bosses. Surely there are other travel industries that schools can communicate with to organise trips.	CON	26
26	S6af79c61-Ad3e1bf7f	Israeli School Trips to Auschwitz Should be Banned	My argument would simply be this-- you cannot deny any Jews access to the sites of the Holocaust. It doesn't matter if they're being 'disrespectful', using it as political tool, concentration camps are integral to their cultural identity and obviously why (out of anywhere in the world) Israelis have chose to demonstrate their anger there. Sure, if they were the neo-Nazis making pilgrimages, we might deny them entry in glorifying the Third Reich. But, they're not. They are angry and suffering Jews. History While I agree that using present-day programs to integrate Palestinians and Israelis would be ideal, this is beside the point. Jewish solidarity and national identity is what is being put under debate here: do young people lose the right to visit concentration camps because of their nation's politics and the Israel-Palestine conflict (which existed prior to WW2)? I agree that the 2-year conscription of non-Arab Israelis is wrong and that a trip to Auschwitz shouldn't just be for pumping them up to fight. Yet, going to Auschwitz, it's hard not to be angry and horrified; if they send children there to feel these emotions, it is also because the children will feel a resonance and horror for those who died there. It is respectful, in a sense, only wrongly harnessed for political ends which we can only blame politicians for and not the children themselves. Nationalism and Disrespect Of course the USSR flag has certain negative connotations, namely that of dictatorship, but this is a reductive representation of the Israeli flag. Israel is the heart of the Jewish faith-- it is where their Holy sites remain, such as the second Temple Mount in it's capital Jerusalem. This is one of the factors of why Palestine and Israel are fighting because both Jews and Muslims/Christians (Palestine) hold claim to the same sites of faith, the same land, to deleterious rivalry and conflict. The March of the Living event, which takes children from all over the world and takes them to Poland, young people of different nationalities wave the Israeli flag. It is an emblem of Jewish solidarity, not just Israeli nationalism. Here is an image of Canadian students waving it: https://upload.wikimedia.org... Jewish nationalism, Zionism, has existed from the start of the 20th century. It isn't a development of modern politics; the conflict has a long history. If some children start talking loudly in a library (disrespecting its behavioural code) do you ban all children from going to the library or do you punish those children who are disrespectful? Punish the disrespectful, sure, but do not deny a whole nation's youth this part of history. There are probably lots of students who go to Poland with nothing but the greatest respect for the sites they visit. Think of the minority Arab population in Israel-- no ties to Zionism or conscription, should they also be denied a chance to go and see the concentration camps? They make up around 15% of the population. One principal does not by any means show a consensus amongst schools and the latter is what is required if a boycott is going to be put in place. To gain any real authority, nationalistic beliefs by the school system would have to change meaning that there is no longer appeal for the trips. Since this conflict is so deep-rooted in the culture, many teachers and headmasters are likewise Zionists. Therefore, I would argue a boycott is unlikely and idealistic (even if well-intentioned). Cost The $400 included return flights, so our figures are the same. I'm sure travel companies don't provide schools just a one-way ticket to Poland; they also need to arrange for them to return. Ethically, I would always be reticent if I was profiting from the Holocaust. There is the same issue about who gets the profits from Hitler's Mein Kampf's, nobody wanting to claim them. This issue tells us more about Israeli economics than it does disrespect. And whilst agree those nine travel bosses should be reprimanded, they in no way represent all travel companies in Israel that schools can operate through. Therefore, providing there are some who offer schools a fair price to send their children across borders, shouldn't Israelis be allowed to go?	CON	27
27	S4e822ec6-A372ced23	Turkey would be an unstable Muslim state in a traditionally Christian union	Turkey’s citizens may be Muslims, but the state is as firmly secular as France in terms of its constitution and government. The new Justice and Development Party (AK) which is currently in government is not seeking to overturn the secular constitution, although it does want to amend some laws that positively discriminate against devout Muslims. These include rules such as the ban on women wearing headscarves in government buildings; restrictions on expressing religious belief which would break human rights laws within the EU. Regardless of one's beliefs surrounding Turkey's possible ascension to the European Union, the fact that the nation's predominant religion is Islam is surely not one of the issues to be considered. Millions of Muslims already live within the EU; excluding Turkey from membership on the grounds of religion would suggest these European Muslims were second-class citizens in a Christian club. It would also presumably rule out future EU entry for Albania, Bosnia and Kosovo. If the EU is to be regarded as an institution that promotes freedom for the citizens of its member states then surely this also means that it promotes freedom of religion. If EU member states are fearful of building closer relations with Islam, which they will inevitably have to, proceeding with the world's most moderate and 'western' Islamic country is the most logical first step. The EU should welcome a state which could provide a positive example of how Islam is completely compatible with democracy, progress and human rights.	PRO	28
28	S4e822ec6-A5a113559	Turkey would be an unstable Muslim state in a traditionally Christian union	Turkey is not a Christian country but a Muslim one, unlike all the current or prospective EU states, which have been shaped by a shared legacy of Christian values, history and culture. Turkeys AK party has brought on many changes that are interpreted as being non-secular or rooted in Islam. Indeed Turkey’s history represents a clear rejection of any Christian tradition, from the centuries-long Ottoman Muslim conquest of Byzantine Christian territories, to the early twentieth-century population exchange with Greece which removed millions of long-established Christian families from Turkish territory. Most recently, Turks have several times elected to government a party with Islamist roots, suspected of wishing to undermine the country’s secular constitution[1]. Turkey is not as moderate a country as it would seem. [1] http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/10288919 ‘Turkey denies break with Europe’, BBC 10th June 2010	CON	29
