	id	conclusion	premises	stance	rank
0	S339250-A4ae7cfa1	We should use behavioral neuroscience techniques to assist law enforcement	By using behavioral neuroscience principles, we can create a world where criminals are either given the help they need, or summarily executed, police brutality is physically impossible, and the community self-polices. High blood pressure, muscle tension, sweating, and increase in heart rate are signs of stress and aggression. High levels of stress and aggression lead to crime and societal and personal dysfunction. By reducing and eliminating stress and aggression, we can have a functioning society once again. Police brutality is another problem that we can solve. An officer's judgment is very important, but we cannot allow the officer's judgment to be clouded by personal bias in deciding on whether to use non-lethal and lethal force to take down a criminal. What we can do is develop mandatory wristbands to measure a person's heart rate, blood pressure, galvanic skin response, and electromyogram. These levels can be distilled into an index from 0 to 600, where 0 is stress-free, 100 and above is dangerous and prone to violence, and 300 and above is an immediate threat to themselves and others. We can also calculate the historical volatility of the index, and use that to determine someone's coping skills. Those with a low index volatility and low index should be the only ones allowed to be law enforcement, and they will be automatically removed if their levels become high, because that indicates instability. We can have a system monitor every region for the average stress index of the population, and if that level spikes, dispatch officers to investigate. The NSA should be responsible for all policing and law enforcement, due to their superior investigative and surveillance capabilities. The officers should be outfitted with special guns, and only these special guns, that can read the target's stress index levels, and if the level is below 100 , the safety cannot be released, if the level is at or above 100, the gun fires tranquilizer dart, and if the level is 300 or above, it fires lethal slugs. And these guns can only be used by the officers they're registered to. The job of the police will be to investigate and report on situations of stress indexes above 100, and to try to get the target's stress index down or take them into custody if they are actively committing a crime. The victims will also be taken into custody so they can receive help. When a target is taken into custody, they are to get a full physical, neurological, and psychiatric examination by a physician, and be placed into mandatory psychoanalysis by a certified psychiatrist or psychologist once their stress index goes down, which is when they can be released with whatever restitution a magistrate orders, plus a punishment ranging from a income-proportional fine, to house arrest, to physician-supervised flogging, plus a course of haloperidol and lorazepam. If they re-offend again, they will be committed to a hospital for intensive treatment. Psychological stress index monitors and cameras should be ubiquitous, and should compliment people who have low stress indexes and index volatility, and encourage those with high stress indexes and volatility to get help. The goal of law and law enforcement will be to encourage a stress-free society.	PRO	1
1	S339250-Ab58a09ca	We should use behavioral neuroscience techniques to assist law enforcement	I am well aware that stress is a normal part of neuropsychology. But there are two types of stress: eustress, and distress. Eustress is the stress resulting from trying to overcome a positive challenge. Distress is the stress resulting from trying to overcome a negative threat. And even continuous eustress can result in problems, because of General Adaptation Syndrome. Due to the ubiquitous cameras and data collection, the NSA will be able to determine whether you are undergoing eustress or distress, and will respond only if you are undergoing distress. The cameras will only be placed in public and commercial places, because you have no reasonable expectation of privacy there . Being stressed in of itself is not illegal. Committing a crime is. The NSA will be able to use the data they collect to determine if reasonable suspicion of criminal activity exists to dispatch a team. Flogging will only be done for violent crimes like assault, battery, murder, rape, emotional and physical abuse, etc. Only they will be required to take haloperidol and lorazepam, along with everything else. Non-violent criminals will simply get an income-proportional fine and relational psychoanalysis and cognitive-behavioral therapy. Summary execution will only be done as a last resort to protect the NSA officers' lives and those of the nearby public. The NSA will only respond to stress index spikes, and the wristbands will be calibrated so normal annoyance and frustration does not cause it's reading to go past 100.	PRO	2
2	S339250-A19879c33	We should use behavioral neuroscience techniques to assist law enforcement	"Let me ask this question to the voters. Do you want the government micromanaging you so much that they have you wear wristbands that monitor your body. There will be cameras everywhere. Nothing you do will be private. I don't mean to be obscene, but if you have sex, the government will know about it. They are monitoring your heart rate constantly. Again, what happens to me if I refuse to wear a wristband? Also, a society without stress will not function. Stress-a state of mental or emotional strain or tension resulting from adverse or very demanding circumstances. Stress is not always a bad thing. Stress is you telling yourself that you need to get something done. There is a reason we get stressed. Anyone who knows much about ""Behavioral Neuroscience"" can tell you that. So what if I am mad? The NSA shows up at my house? What if I start talking. I start saying, ""you know what, I don't like this wristband, and I don't like being watched all the time"". Then what happens? Whenever I get stressed about the fact that the government is always looking over my shoulder, they show up at my door. I would like to say that Psyco-Pass is described as Dystopian. Here is dystopian defined: Dystopian- describes an imaginary society that is as dehumanizing and as unpleasant as possible. Pro wants to impose upon us a totalitarian dystopian police state, where the NSA watches our every move, and our very bodily functions are known by the state. People are sentenced to floggings for being stressed, and everyone must wear wristbands. If you do become stressed, you will be given drugs to calm you down. Pro's arguments contradict themselves- ""I'm not advocating emotional control at all."" ""The goal of law and law enforcement will be to encourage a stress-free society."" Stress is an emotional state. Anger, despair, sadness, and calm are all emotional states. You ARE advocating emotional control. It is scary. Not to mention this, which in it self is terrifying; ""Criminals are either given the help they need, or summarily executed"" Back to you Pro"	CON	3
3	S339250-A8ae85848	We should use behavioral neuroscience techniques to assist law enforcement	"If you want a world described by my opponent, feel free to vote for them, but if you want a world where you are free to do what you want, and you don't have the government looking over your shoulder all the time, vote for me. They want the NSA to be the police for God's sake! There will be cameras everywhere, and you will be a criminal for being stressed. Pro attempts to deny that, but earlier Pro said this- ""The goal of law and law enforcement will be to encourage a stress-free society."" That means there will be laws against stress. I don't know about you, but do you want the government to know every move you make? If you still aren't convinced this would be a terrible society, just look at where it came from- A dystopian anime. Dystopia literally defined as the worst possible society."	CON	4
4	S339250-A70cb8cc9	We should use behavioral neuroscience techniques to assist law enforcement	"Totalitarianism or totalitarian state is a concept used by some political scientists in which the state holds total authority over the society and seeks to control all aspects of public and private life wherever possible. Forcing everyone to wear wristbands. What an interesting idea. So, what happens if I don't want to wear an armband? Do I have a ""Physician-supervised flogging""? What if I decide its none of your damn business how stressed I am. Am I carted off to a ""Hospital"" for ""Intensive Treatment""? If you are reading this (And you are not my Opponent) you may find my opponent's position disturbing. I know I did. The government will not only monitor all of your activities, but it will also your stress level and personal emotions. I don't know if anyone has seen Equilibrium (Which is a Sci-Fi Dystopian Movie starring Christian Bale) but Pro's society bears uncanny resemblance to it. This a description of the society in Equilibrium for those of you who don't know. Be sure to look at Pro's first round to see the resemblance. ""Equilibrium is set in 2072 in Libria, where a totalitarian government requires all citizens to take daily injections of ""Prozium"" to suppress emotion and encourage obedience. All emotionally stimulating material has been banned, and ""Sense Offenders"" """" those who fail to take their Prozium """" are put to death. Libria is governed by the Tetragrammaton Council, led by ""Father"", who is seen only on giant video screens throughout the city. At the pinnacle of Librian law enforcement are the Grammaton Clerics, who are trained in the martial art of gun kata. The Clerics frequently raid the ""Nether"" region outside the city to search for and destroy illegal materials """" art, literature, and music """" and execute the people hiding them"" Even down to the calming drugs. This is from Pro's argument- ""they can be released with whatever restitution a magistrate orders, plus a punishment ranging from a income-proportional fine, to house arrest, to physician-supervised flogging, plus a course of haloperidol and lorazepam."" I think most people were fairly shaken by the development that the NSA was spying on our personal texts and uses of our own electronic devices. Apparently, Pro was not- ""The NSA should be responsible for all policing and law enforcement, due to their superior investigative and surveillance capabilities."" ""cameras should be ubiquitous"" Again, this is a society where the government, specifically, the all-powerful NSA police state, can and will watch your every move. So, will you conform? Will you wear the wristband? Will you submit to the police state? Or will you join me, in resisting this evil and invasive government before it is even in place? Back to you Pro."	CON	5
5	S339250-Ac0ea5219	We should use behavioral neuroscience techniques to assist law enforcement	I'm not advocating emotional control at all. Just monitoring of your stress levels, and the stress index should be set in such a way that normal, everyday stress won't cause it to go above 100. The NSA field agents should be trained in non-confrontive behavior if the person with the over 100 stress level is not actually committing a crime, but is merely upset or hurt. Only criminals and the mentally-ill will get the neuroleptics, not everyone. By monitoring stress levels, the NSA will also be able to immediately dispatch paramedics and firefighters to an area if the camera network shows an injury, sickness, or fire. Also, the NSA will target those with rising stress levels, not just those who merely blip above 100. And we will of course still have jury trials and all the other legal protections, it's just that there will be more evidence able to be considered by both the prosecution and the defense, since the NSA is the master of discovery. Also, prison is extraordinarily cruel. Caging someone with other criminals does not help them, and society does not benefit from their removal. By giving them mandatory psychoanalysis and haloperidol/lorazepam instead, they will be able to be appropriately rehabilitated while remaining in society. Crime is caused by either frustration or evil; frustration can be fixed, but evil is forever. By helping the criminal understand themselves, how they relate to their world, and why they do the things they do, they will be able to create positive ways of dealing with life's problems. PS: I actually got this idea from an anime called Psycho-Pass.	PRO	6
