	id	conclusion	premises	stance	rank
0	S472d8abe-A8d8336ee	A Full Time College Education is Not Worth It	"Due to recent events in our debates I have come to see that even though nationwide high schools now encourage students to strive for four-year universities and colleges I have come to ask myself if those four long years are really worth it? For many, a four-year college is an impossible option and other times for those who do strive for their education find themselves lost of what to now do with their acquired education. Seeing on the Debt.org website, an organization dedicated to aiding in college grads debt, that ""...college graduates are left with a diploma and an enormous financial burden of credit card and student loan debt "" and maybe no job in sight"". Especially focusing not just on these student's debt but also how they may not be able to even find jobs. In order for this economy to flourish we need a stable working class, but if the majority are jobless and in debt our country will plummet. In order to evade such disaster perhaps it should be taken into account that these full college educations are not worth it and instead strive for an Associates that can still provide well paid working jobs for many; trade skill occupations."	PRO	1
1	S472d8abe-Aba8b1b82	A Full Time College Education is Not Worth It	"I cannot deny that four-year college educations do provide higher paying jobs compared to a person with only an associate's degree, but even though the person may make more money it all depends. It depends on the major the person took, it depends on the amount of debt they will be in, it depends on the college they went too, it depends if there are even jobs available for them after graduation. I say this because yes, all college education does cost money, but some a lot more than others and it is because of this cost and rate of recent unemployment for certain jobs why perhaps the four-year education is currently not worth all its time and effort. While there are grants and scholarships for full time four-year college students to apply for to aid in their debt, that is if they take the time and effort to do so, many cannot forget that even after graduation and debt there also may lie unemployment and underemployment. Seeing in the online website article,"" The Economic Policy Institute"", last updated in April 21, 2016, that, ""For young college graduates, the unemployment rate is currently 5.6 percent (compared with 5.5 percent in 2007), and the underemployment rate is 12.6 percent (compared with 9.6 percent in 2007)"". Despite how low these rates may be now it cannot be ignored how dramatically the percentage changed from 2007 to 2016 in the underemployment rates and shows that in the due future these rates will only become increase. Through this percent of people who face underemployment and how it will begin to grow over time it can be seen that many people will have their four-year degree but most will never work to their educations actual potential. Lacking in that higher paying job they so longed for and then for those who had not applied for grants and scholarships finding themselves stuck in debt that they cannot escape due to their underemployed job. It is not common, but there are associate's degrees that allow a pay just as high as any bachelor's degree may provide. It is with these certain opportunities that people may take through a shorter college life that they will end up with not only a much smaller debt but also a well paid trade and working job that are currently in the need and are not facing unemployment or underemployment."	PRO	2
2	S472d8abe-Ac816cc0f	A Full Time College Education is Not Worth It	"One of your arguments are the factors of underemployment and unemployment rates when in fact it does rely and depend on the major or career. Many jobs today are being replaced by machines therefore people in society and undergraduates need to focus on being a full time student to get a four year education or higher to acquire skills and knowledge that can not be replaced by a machine. Whether a full time education is truly worth the time and money, one person may argue that with loans and being in debt may seem like a stressful situation, it pays off drastically with time. With a four year education, a loan can be paid off in a couple of years while still having a comfortable lifestyle. For instance, a family practice (doctor) goes to school for a total of twelve year (four years at a university, four years at medical school, and three years at residency) the tuition may seem high but he/she would be making around 325,000 annually so in numbers, it seems worth the time and energy to put force into a full time education, if the loans/debt will not be as a big deal to pay off. The conversation of underemployment and unemployment justifies the fact that the competition between a full time student and part time student is existing but the job or position will most likely go to the more committed student with more experience and education. Without being said, the rates of unemployment and underemployment are higher in California due to it having the highest population in the U.S with more people seeking classes in specific majors and jobs. This is why programs like the Regional Admission Counselors of California (RACC) is composed of college admission professionals who represent colleges and universities outside the state of California. They help students go out of state into universities with the same system and potentially find jobs and positions out in other states where the unemployment is not as high as California. With all this being said, myself as a high school and college student I would be lying if I said money was not a concern for me. However, according to Nerd Wallet, a website helping people save money had Devon Delfino, someone who personally invested in student loans wrote an article on December 16, 2016 called ""Advice From 3 People Who Paid off Student Loan Debt"" states that small adjustments make a difference into paying off student loans like ""tracking your credit score, using the avalanche method, and taking holistic approach to your finances"". All in all, this is something that will help students be young responsible adults and the rewards of a full time education will help take them to that next level."	CON	3
3	S472d8abe-Ab4c1c6e6	A Full Time College Education is Not Worth It	"Moving past unemployment, underemployment, and debt I would like to focus on life after a person has graduated a full four year college. Based off your claims I cannot deny that a person with a full college education does make more money than a person who decides to skip college or only work for their associates. Even seeing that unemployment and underemployment may be avoided if a person really strives out of a state such as California where finding jobs is much more difficult. But even though a person may find a job and pay off all their debt how long will it take for a four-year college graduate to finally live a normal life? Based off the online article website, ""The Balance"", and their article ""Making it Between College and Your First Job"", last updated March of this year, they state that it takes up to six months for a college graduate to find a job, depending on their field and the current economic conditions. Six months may not seem like a lot of time but compared to an average person without a degree who can find a job in between six weeks, there is a huge gap. Within these six months the graduate will need to not only figure out how to manage their lives but also figure out how else they will support themselves. This last issue many college graduates then face after college are the delays in their life. Facing the fact that compared to a person without a degree and who has already a paying job the graduate will then need extra time to move on with their lives. Finding delays in saving for retirement, delays in buying their homes, and maybe even delays in getting married. A full college education can take a majority of a person's time and while they are busy studying it takes time away from preparing for their life after college. However, because a person with a full college education can afford a home and save for retirement much quicker than a person without, it then all depends on the person. Some people would prefer living their lives out rather than having a college education and if that is their preferred life so be it. Overall, a college education can benefit those who decide to follow that path, but they will face their share of hardships during and after just as a person who doesn't go to college will face their own working difficulties."	PRO	4
4	S472d8abe-A2bdc4692	A Full Time College Education is Not Worth It	"Increasingly in the past couple years, people have seem to forgotten the immense value of a college education, more specifically a four year degree. However a four-year degree(full-time) is more valuable now than ever. In a time of unbelievable competition in the job market, something has to be done to separate the best from the average. A four year degree shows not only knowledge in a specific discipline but also shows that one had the commitment to get the degree over a period of time. In the choice between a person with a four year degree and a lesser education, the person in the four-year degree tends to win due to the credibility of crendtials and knowledge. A four year college degree also gives an immense amount of options, compared to a two year degree which allows trade specialization. A four year degree allows trade speicalization of a two year, but also a lot more options that the other may not have available. A lot of the best paying workers start with a four year degree. In a dynamic world having options is invaluable and if you want real options of four year degree is the way to go. A full time education/ a four year degree often causes debt but so does any college education, however schooling for any comfortable life style costs money. The existence of grants and scholarships help offset much of this cost. Studies show that a full time student make more money faster than a part time student. According to Erica Loop who published an article called, ""What Benefits Are There for Being a Full-Time College Student Over a Part-Time Student?"" states that ""A full-time student is more likely to receive the full amount of the grant than a part-time student is"". It is more common for people with 4 year degrees make substaneously more than those with a Associates so people with a higher education degree have more of a capability to pay it off. Also some student may be discourage by the amount of time in order to be successful and loose focus."	CON	5
5	S472d8abe-Acdd3b6cc	A Full Time College Education is Not Worth It	"It is true that finding a job or position after graduating can be hard but like you said it all depends on the person's work ethics and situation. This may cause people to get a job from six weeks to six months depending on the major and area. Some areas need more jobs than others depending on the community's needs, resources, and stability. Some colleges have programs that make it easier to find positions for specific majors and it also depends on how bad the job seeker truly wants it. No matter what kind of education one accquires, full time or not, a person will have some difficulty finding a job. But it is after the position is obtained by an individual that makes the true difference. One goes to college to obtain a better and comfortable lifestyle by earning a greater salary. Charles Purdy published an article called ""10 Job Search Mistakes of New College Grads"" by a website called Monster Worldwide Inc, offering career advice and researching the top mistakes most job seekers and grad students make. Some of the mistakes listed on the website were not using the college's career office, not taking the job interview seriously, appearing unprofessional, setting expectations too high, misusing the internet, relying solely on the internet, and not being proactive enough. To elaborate on students and job seekers setting the expectation to high, most of them think of the perfect job instead of their ""first job"" or actually giving it a fair shot. In this economy, the first job should be about finding a position where one will learn great deals and skills, be super busy, and be surrounded by lots of people in order to get familiar and be more hands on with their career or major. Afterwards, there is always the option of transferring to another location if the first job isn't meeting their expectations. In conclusion, achieving any sort of education may seem challenging but the sole purpose of obtaining an education should motivate one to achieve greater than what they had before, whether it's a high school diploma or associates degree. A full time education may seem stressful but one should keep their eyes on the prize once their journey is completed."	CON	6
6	S1788cfe5-Aabb843f5	The cost of a college education outweighs the benefits	I’d like to thank my opponent for this debate and also apologize for the late response. Before I begin addressing the contentions, I’d like to point out some issues associated with the way my opponent has set up this debate. First of all, because my opponent has not set any specifications for the term “college”, I’m going to assume that he’s referring to post secondary education in the United States. Additionally, we must also place a distinction between the inherent and extrinsic costs of college. For example, we can still have colleges without student loans; it is simply the government’s choice whether or not to distribute them. Ergo, student loans are not an inherent cost of a college education; they are simply extrinsic costs that should not be associated with the “cost” of maintaining a college, making my opponent’s second contention a moot point. We must also draw a distinction between private and public colleges, as they are funded differently and receive different kinds of subsidies, which I will address in the contentions. ===THE CASE=== Do individuals benefit from investing in a college education? My opponent’s case hinges on the belief that college education does not necessarily lead to a career or a decent salary. To prove his point, he posts a bunch of unsourced statistics: “College graduates under 25 that have a humanities major, 25.2% of them are not working, 29.4% have job that doesn’t even require a college education. Only 45.5% of them are working in jobs that require a college education”. The first problem with this argument is that the statistics he uses to back it up are biased and inconclusive. Obviously some majors are more likely to yield careers than other majors. To put this skewed statistic in perspective, only 4.2% of university graduates are unemployed six months after graduating if we account all majors [1]. Additionally, whether the job they land requires a college education is irrelevant, because a college degree is still an important credential which helps secure employment (even if I were looking for a cashier, I’d rather higher a cashier with a diploma than one without). The second problem with this argument is that it needs some relative statistics to put the information presented in perspective. This relativity is essential because without it, we don’t know whether the high unemployment rates are the result of an inefficient college education or just a frail economy, and when we look at the employment rates for America as a whole, what we find is that high school graduates are twice as likely to be unemployed when compared to college graduates. We can safely conclude that despite side proposition’s misleading statistics, college graduates do have a significantly higher employment rate because of their investment in a post secondary education. This idea of relativity brings me to my constructive argument. The fact is that when we tally up unemployment rates, the degree you major in, the number of years it takes to major and everything, what we find is that the individual with a bachelor’s degree earns, on average, almost 1 million dollars more than the individual with only a high school diploma [2]. I’d gladly invest $20,000 – $30,000 for a million dollar return. Monetarily speaking, from the individual standpoint, college is an efficient investment and much more beneficial than costly. Additionally, one must not forget the experience of college, which, to many students, is priceless. Skipping college would mean missing out on college means missing valuable education, networking, and social opportunities (such as college parties). So unlike what my opponent suggests, the average college graduate will most likely not “always be in debt”. What’s more likely is that you’ll go to college, have a great time, and land a career that’ll net you almost a million dollars more than your high school graduate neighbors. Because of the reasons that I have stated, college is clearly beneficial from an individual standpoint. Does the government/society benefit from investing in a college education? My opponent’s argument here is essentially just pointing out how the government has to subsidize colleges, and that the subsidies can go into other much needed investments. This argument falls because my opponent does not state how much money goes into the college subsidies (like saying there is a cost, without saying how much the cost is), and because college subsidies need to be broken down to the cost of college per se and extraneous costs. This needs to be broken down further into subsidies for private and public colleges. When subsidizing public colleges, the government needs to fund the entire cost of building and maintaining the college. I accept that this is a cost of a college education, but I’d just like to point out that the tuition costs of public colleges goes back to government coffers. When subsidizing private colleges, the government basically does three things. The first thing that the government does to subsidize private colleges is offer students financial aid. I have already explained why student loans should be dismissed, as they are not a direct cost of college. Even if my opponent can somehow prove that they are, the point about the inefficiency of providing student loans falls because government loans/subsidies per student have been falling due to increasing attendance rates, and tuition has still never been higher. The government also gives grants for research teams. However, these grants cannot fully be considered subsidies because we are essentially buying information, which is something we benefit from. Lastly, the government gives tax breaks to private colleges. If we disregard financial aid, private colleges are basically a self sustaining, mutually beneficial industry, that does not have a cost. Finally, I’d like to point out that post secondary education is often cited as the most powerful contributor to social mobility, something that society and individuals benefit from. ===CONCLUSION=== I was a little confused when constructing my arguments because of some of my opponent’s arguments. His last to arguments really seem to be about abolishing college subsidies and redirecting it to investments in things such as infrastructure, which I actually agree with. However, as I have explained, these are not inherent costs of a college education; they are simply inefficient ways that the government handles its money. My opponent seems to agree with me that the benefits of college per se outweighs it’s cost, and that it’s just the inefficient way the government approaches it that is the problem. Therefore, the resolution is negated because the benefits of a college education outweigh its cost; the only problem is the misappropriation of government funds. I thank the readers and hand the debate back to my opponent. ===SOURCES=== [1] http://www.economist.com... [2] http://www.lorainccc.edu...	CON	7
7	S33b011a1-Af929c328	The costs of a college education outweigh the benefits	"In this round, I will finish up final rebuttals, then list both the costs and benefits of a college education. Weighing and impacting each point will be done at the end of the round. Monetary Benefits When talking about monetary benefits, note that the claim was always about lifetime earnings. Lifetime earnings and opportunity costs are different points, and higher lifetime earnings does not show that you will accumulate more wealth, simply that you will have a higher income. I agree with my opponent that the average college graduate will have a high lifetime earnings differential. However, there is no ""averaging"" to be done. The number stands at roughly $275,000, as other studies are too flawed to be considered. Debt My opponent has mostly dropped this point, instead focusing on monetary benefits. Simply because one will have higher earnings (not wealth) over their lifetime does not mean that debt should be ignored. The average college graduate will be in debt until the age of 33. As was brought up in my first contention and not refuted: ""College graduates and postgraduates, instead of buying cars, buying houses, getting married, having children—in other words, becoming full-fledged consumers are, as Nance-Nash puts it, “running back home.” That hurts us all."" Some small weighing to be done: A small chance of earning $275,000 versus being in debt for eleven years, with a 20% chance of defaulting and losing everything. It's fairly obvious that these costs outweigh the monetary benefits, especially when combined with opportunity cost. Investment Potential (opportunity cost) A brief reminder: If a college graduate misses out on an opportunity, this is considered opportunity cost. If I can show that college graduates miss out on an opportunity to make more money, then this must be considered for total wealth accumulation. My opponent only responded to my point on job experience, leaving the investment point un-touched for the entire debate. This alone justifies a pro ballot. Investing money, rather than going to college, will result in far more wealth (more than three times as much) by the age of 65, even if the college graduate invests too. This is using the average savings rate, investment returns, cost of tuition, etc. Simply put, this point outweighs any possible monetary benefits that my opponent can bring up, and the point was dropped. The opportunity cost of going to college is roughly 1.3 million dollars. Pro-College Studies Point In the last round, my opponent claimed that this point reinforces his case. This is entirely false. The only way it would do this is if con could refute my points of how college graduates no longer receive the same benefits that they did years ago. I brought these points up in rounds 2 and 3, and will reiterate them here. In round 3, I showed that the recession did hit college graduates harder, as is shown by the fact that they now have the same unemployment rate as non-graduates, when 10 years ago they didn't. Again in round 3, I showed that job growth is occurring in areas where college degrees are not needed. However, more and more people are going to college. This greatly decreases the value of a college education. This causes underemployment, meaning more and more college graduates are not gaining the wage benefits that my opponent has brought up. ""More than half of America's recent college graduates are either unemployed or working in a job that doesn't require a bachelor's degree."" Default rates have increased. Drop out rates have increased. An average college graduate is going into an environment that is completely different than it was 20 years ago. Thus, this entire point still stands: only recent college graduates can be considered, unless con can show that these graduates will eventually reach the earnings/employment potential of past graduates (note that burden of proof is shared in this debate). Drop-outs and Defaults. My opponent misunderstands my drop-out point. The focus was not on the cost of dropping out. The focus was on the fact that less than half of those who go to college even gain any benefits. Defaulting, however, should be considered as a cost. This point has not been adequately touched upon by my opponent. We've already established that the monetary benefits will be roughly $275,000 (other than opportunity cost). If you default on your student loans, you lose all of that. It cannot be forgiven by bankruptcy: your wages will be garnished, your tax refunds offset, you will be ineligible for future federal employment, etc. This is an extremely large point greatly undermines the value of a college education. One-fifth of all borrowers will default and lose all their monetary benefits. My opponent focuses a lot on the benefits of a college education. However, one must ask themselves: how likely am I to actually achieve this benefits? The answer is not likely at all, roughly 40%. Once again, this point alone can justify a pro ballot. If 60% of students will not even attain these elusive benefits, then they shouldn't even be considered in this debate. Social Benefits As I've stated before, this point has a very small impact. My opponent again mentions that you are ""learning to live on your own gradually and constructively."" I brought up in round 3 that you must also learn to live on your own if you don't go to college. My opponent responded to this by saying that ""you're also getting an education,"" but this point is meaningless as we're debating about whether or not the education is worth it in the first place. What's the difference between learning to live in college, and learning to live in the real world? You have to constantly worry about debt, you have to work jobs to in order to finance your education on top of class work, you have to go 11 years knowing you're at a disadvantage for buying a home or getting married, you know you have a massive default/drop out rate, etc. The social benefits of going to college are easily countered with the social costs. I concede that you do not lose job connections by attending college. However, it is fairly clear that you don't gain many either. Why? Because the unemployment rate for college graduates and non-graduates are the same, and because the majority of job growth is occurring in areas where you don't even need a college education. Also note that my opponent statistic on 80% of jobs aren't advertised does not show that non-college graduates only gain access to 20% of jobs. Con's own source mentions you gain access to these 80% of jobs through your ""network,"" which includes, friends, family, peers, social organizations, service providers, recent graduates, etc. This does not require a college education. Causation versus Correlation This point wasn't intended to completely negate con's benefits. Rather, it was to show that those who qualify to go to college will automatically have higher earnings/unemployment potential than normal high-school graduates, due to their own personal traits. My opponent's claim that college offers benefits because success-driven people decide to go simply cannot stand in this round until con can show that they achieve such benefits. I've already shown that there are little benefits to a college education, and large costs. What is not a benefit? Lower unemployment. Greater overall wealth. Social benefits. Job opportunities. Benefits Roughly a 40% chance for a $275,000 lifetime earnings differential. Costs 1.3 million dollars of opportunity cost, which my opponent has not refuted at all. A 20% chance of defaulting and losing everything if you borrow money. Being in debt for 11 years and unable to become a full consumer. Conclusion You will have roughly 1 million dollars less wealth than if you were to spend money elsewhere. You will gain no noticeable benefits over a non-graduate. You are extremely unlikely to achieve any benefits. College is 11-15 lost years of your life with nothing to show for it."	PRO	8
8	S1788cfe5-A5065b78d	The cost of a college education outweighs the benefits	"First, let me show give you some definitions to you Judge We would like to define ‘costs’ We would like to define ‘costs’ as the tuition, textbooks, time, and the government’s money we’ll explain in depth later. The standard or Weighing Mechanism for today’s debate should be Efficiency We use Efficiency as a standard or weighing mechanism for today’s debate. We would like to state that colleges are good for individuals, family, and our society Judge, all of our contentions will refer to the observation that colleges are good. Please don’t let our opponents trick you into believing that we, as the Affirmative, think that colleges are bad. We chose efficiency because we think of colleges as good, but they have too high prices. Imagine college education as a stock. One buys a stock and they hope their stock will rise in value so they can sell it for a better price. You may not buy a stock that has a high price since the probability of selling the stock later for higher is very little. The same thing is with a college education. You may buy a college education if the prices are low with a better chance of gaining a well paying salary in the future but you may not if the prices are high with a chance of a low paying salary in the future. This is why we argue Efficiency. With that we have 3 main arguments. Contention 1. The Individual Staindpoint We are worried that the costs of a college education will ruin someone’s life...or rather more than one. According to the New York Times, college graduates under 25 that have a humanities major, 25.2% of them are not working, 29.4% have job that doesn’t even require a college education. Only 45.5% of them are working in jobs that require a college education. That isn’t even half! Obviously the cost is not worth the benefit. Carl E. Van Horn, a professor of public policy at Rutgers University said to the Huffington Post that ""Not every graduate program leads to a guaranteed job. You likely already have debt and you're going to incur more debt and what's it going to translate into down the road?"" asked Van Horn. ""While it's okay to major in cultural anthropology, understand that you may not end up as the next Margaret Mead. You may end up as the manager of a Sports Authority."" This quote shows that not all graduate degrees will guarantee you a job, much less a well paying salary or a job that requires a college degree. You will most probably always be in debt. Contention 2. Government Standpoint Loaning to high school graduates is all fine but this is not an efficient way to do things. This money that is going to the high school graduates’ loans but they are being wasted with all the unemployment rates of college graduates being in debt. These college graduates are unable to pay their debt. This has led to parts of the Occupy Movement. These graduates are protesting to the government and asking them if they can not pay back the loans. If you, Judge, were looking at these protesters from a government standpoint, you would see all that money being wasted in the loans for the high school graduates and taking care of the protests. “It's a phenomenon familiar to economists. If you offer people a subsidy to pursue some activity requiring an input that's in more-or-less fixed supply, the price of that input goes up” - startribune.com. This says that if there are government subsidies, the price grows. Since right now, we have government subsidies and that is what is bringing the costs up. Contention 3 - Societal Benefits As I stated in my second argument, subsidies are a waste. This money spent on subsidies could be used to improve public services including airports, roads, and the k-12 Education. Obama himself said in a recent speech that airports, roads, and bridges needed more money, according to CNS News. If we take away these subsidies, the extra money could go to there public services. Also, building and bettering airports, roads, and the k-12 system could supply more jobs, stimulating the economy, which, Judge, we all know is in very bad shape. The k-12 system especially needs some help. Only 7% of US students performs at an advanced level in math putting us behind 25 other countries. Only 32% of US students are proficient in math, placing us 32nd in the world -newsweek Aug 2011 As you can see, abolishing college subsidies goes a long way."	PRO	9
9	S33b011a1-Aab446756	The costs of a college education outweigh the benefits	"I thank my opponent for the quick response. My refutations: Monetary Benefits My opponent comes up with a number similar to that cited by collegeboard, of roughly 1 million more dollars being earned by those holding bachelors degrees, as opposed to those holding high school diplomas. However, my opponent's calculations fail to take a variety of other factors into account. The letter from Charles Miller, cited in my ""Benefits"" section, shows one of the issues: ""The report assumes a student will finish college in four years. Actually, the typical time to graduation is closer to six years in higher education today. The addition of two extra years of college costs and two less years of earnings makes a significant difference."" My opponent also fails to take into account the fact that tuition is financed by student loans, which are difficult to pay off. As I already mentioned, the average college graduate will be unable to pay off their debt until age 33. Given my opponent's estimates, this age should be 23.5 years, or after 1 and a half years of earnings. My opponent's number for the yearly cost of college also should not be considered, as he only included the price of public institutions. According to the fact sheet that he cites, the yearly cost of all four year institutions is $20,986. The income data which is cited by my opponent is also from the 2000 census, which is far too outdated. To repeat the quote used in my ""benefits"" section: ""Properly using the present value of the lifetime earnings, adjusted for the cost of going to college and the difference in the number of working years... calculated and the three percent discount rate used in the report produces a lifetime earnings differential of only $279,893 for a bachelors degree versus a high school degree."" At the end of this round, I will be showing another major issue with my opponent's case in general which works to farther refute this monetary point. Social Benefits The majority of societal benefits cited by my opponent are not gained solely through a college education. An individual must learn to live on their own even if they don't go to college. Other benefits which my opponent brings up, mostly social skills, aren't as beneficial as one might think. Students already go through 12 years of school to gain social skills. The additional four years, while it may be beneficial, are by no means required. Rather, students should be putting their social skills to the test in the real world. Simply put, real world experiences outweigh college experiences. My opponent also briefly mentions ""job connections."" In this case, the 4-6 years of employment and job experience gives far better job connections than the college experience. The overall impact of this point is very small, and can be easily countered by weighing it against the arguments I brought up. Opportunities My opponent is attempting to decrease the impact of my risk point. ""Fear of failing"" is not an adequate phrase. The fear is of 54% chance to drop out, and to not gain any of the benefits from a college degree. The high default risk, almost 20%, is far too large of a risk for the average student to take. I'd also like to state that student loan debt cannot be forgiven through bankruptcy. Defaulting on such debt is virtually a guarantee to have your wages garnished, to suffer an incredibly large drop in your credit, to have tax returns offset, and to be ineligible for future federal employment. My opponent also asks if ""the value of a college education is dropping - then how worthless is not even having one to begin with then?"" The reason why the value of a college education is dropping, largely in respect to employment opportunities, is because more and more individuals are graduating college, while job growth simply cannot keep up. This does not decrease the value of not going to college. My opponent then brings up job sector growth. There is a large issue with the statistic my opponent brings up: It is focused on percentage increases. Meaning an industry which goes from 100,000 to 200,000 jobs would be said to have higher growth than an industry which goes from 5 million to 9 million. The study which I cited in round one focuses on the actual number of jobs created. Among the top 10 growing jobs, only one requires a bachelors degree, and among the top 20, only 4 do. Problem With Pro-College Studies This section is aimed at employment and income prospects. Any study which brings up the benefits of a college education must show that these benefits can be obtained by recent graduates. For this reason, the quote ""individuals with only a high school diploma were twice as likely to be unemployed as those holding bachelor’s degrees"" cannot be considered because it includes individuals who graduated college 20-30 years ago, when the benefits of a college education were much larger. College graduates were hit especially hard by the recession: the previous unemployment rate of 5.8% has nearly doubled to 9.2%. ""That means recent grads have about the same level of unemployment as the general population."" The same goes for future earnings. Studies cannot include individuals who have already held a college degree for 20+ years, and already achieved a large income. This is due to the fact that the rising costs prevent current graduates from reaching such future earnings. Effectively, recent graduates are no longer able to obtain the employment and income benefits that past graduates have. Therefore, studies which show the benefits achieved by past graduates do not show that recent college graduates will obtain such benefits. Causation Versus Correlation While this may be a generic argument, it is important to consider in this round. What's important to note is that college's tend to enroll students who are already geared toward success. Students who graduate with high gpas will, more often than not, continue in to college. However, as high school gpa is also correlated to future earnings, this skews statistics which report on the earnings of college graduates. This rebuttal can be summed up as follows: Any student which meets the requirements to go to college will, on average, earn more than the average high-school diploma holder, regardless of whether or not they attend college. This does not completely negate con's future earnings statistics. It is true that college graduates will have higher incomes. However, one must always keep in mind that, due to what I described above, the numbers will always be a couple thousand dollars lower than what is cited. The Overall Chance of Any Benefits This relates to my rebuttal against ""opportunities,"" yet is large enough to deserve its own section. The overall chance of achieving these benefits is very low. The 54% drop out rate means that one is more likely to not receive any of these benefits, and instead be faced with massive student loan debt. The 20% default rate means that even if one does manage to beat the odds and graduate they will not receive any of the benefits. Instead, they will receive massive wage garnishments and federal benefits being offset. Even if one can somehow manage to graduate and not default on their student loan debt, they will more likely than not be put into a job that doesn't even require a college degree. Thus, even if my opponent manages to prove that the monetary benefits of college outweigh the monetary costs, voters must keep in mind that its extremely unlikely any college graduate will actually achieve these benefits. Conclusion College graduates only earn $279,000 more over the course of their lifetime, not $890,000. A college graduate is unlikely to actually obtain such lifetime earnings. There are very few social benefits of going to college. The large risks taken to obtain a college degree vastly outweigh the potential benefits. College graduates do not have a lower unemployment rate. Job potential for high school graduates is increasing."	PRO	10
10	S33b011a1-Ab103e7e3	The costs of a college education outweigh the benefits	"=Monetary Benefit= The average cost of college tuition for a State school is roughly $15,000 a year for a 4 year program. [1] This averages out to $60,000 total in college costs after 4 years. The average salary for someone with just a high school diploma is $23,000 a year. [2] The average salary for someone with a Bachelor's degree is $45,500 a year. [2] With a college education you're making $22,000 a year more than if you didn't go to college. If we average this out, say you get out of college at age 22 and you work until age 65. That's 43 years of work. Say you're unemployed or injured for (a generous) 5 of these years. That's 38 years of work. Over these 38 years a college graduate will make $890,000 MORE than his counterpart that did not go to college. Subtract out the $60k for college costs and you've still got a net profit of $830k that you would not have made if you didn't go to college at all. =Social Benefit= There is a huge social benefit to going to college. Not only do you make lifelong friends and connections, you learn to live on your own. You have to feed yourself, go to class, work, pay your bills, do your laundry etc without your parents help. Those who leave (or don't leave) at 18 will have the penalty of not having the beneficial college transition into life. After college, students are usually prepared and willing to go out and live and work on their own, completely independent. While social benefit doesn't have a numeric value attached to it, it is extremely valuable. You can't replace the ""college experience"" with work experience. The friendships, job connections, skills and social transition are all invaluable and give those who finish college a huge boost over those who did not. =Opporitunities= My opponent keeps claiming that college is ""too risky"" and that many people shouldn't even try. But if you don't go to college at all, if you don't try for fear of failing etc then you'll forever shut out the opporitunities that a college education can bring you. Many jobs REQUIRE a college education. If you don't have one, you'll forever be barred from applying for them. Even if you don't get a job right out of college you'll always be able to apply for college degree jobs. Those who don't attend high school will never be able to apply for these, ever. My opponent claims the value of a college education is dropping - then how worthless is not even having one to begin with then? It is silly to forever shut out ample future opporitunities for better employment, better pay and greater experiences due to the fear of failing. Even if it doesn't pay off immidiately after you graduate, you'll always have the degree and the experience to use for the rest of your life. "" Individuals with only a high school diploma were twice as likely to be unemployed as those holding bachelor’s degrees."" [3] You're more likely to be unemployed...always, without a college degree. ""Statistics project that 75 percent of future positions are expected to require at least some type of certification or licensure, and professions that require a bachelor’s degree are projected to grow nearly twice as fast as the national average, making a college degree a good investment."" [3] All of these positions are forever barred to you without a college education. That severely limits your opporitunity of employment and careers. =Conclusion= * There are tangible and large monetary advantages for those with college degrees vs. those without. * College has social value and provides you skills and experiences that are valuable throughout life. * A college degree is a permenant asset and a long term plus. You'll always have it. * College degrees open up and hold far more opporitunities than just a diploma. * The costs of a college education are easily outweighed by the abundant benefits. [1] http://nces.ed.gov... [2] http://www.cesdp.nmhu.edu... [3] http://www.back2college.com..."	CON	11
11	S33b011a1-A4b6e44be	The costs of a college education outweigh the benefits	"=Monetary Benefits= My opponent tries to comb through my argument and pick through it but the bottom line is, though he disagrees with the extent of my claims made, that there still is a monetary benefit for college educated people. He claims there is ONLY a difference of over $275,000. That's still a lot; a salary boost of thousands a year. In the end, though we have varying studies (and there are literally dozens of college income and average income studies and numbers out there) the bottom line, concluded by both of us, is that there is a long term monetary benefit to attending college. Even the low number given by my opponent is pretty high, and if we average the two the benefit is even higher. Through it all my opponent failed to refute the claim that there is a monetary benefit to attending college which only helps to add weight to our case going forward when combined with other points. =Social Benefits= My opponent claims that 12 years of public schooling and some start up job positions can replace the benefits given by a college experience. However, this is simply not the case. He claims ""real world"" experiences are better than college experiences. However, while learning how to live on your own gradually and constructively in college you're also getting an education. Instead of flinging 18 year olds into a dingy apartment right away, college eases young adults into this transition making it easier on them. Also, my opponent claims ""job experience"" will give them more connections than college will. This is simply an unpractical claim to make. The jobs 18 year old high school graduates will be hourly wage jobs to start almost guaranteed. They'll have to work their way up to a management position in the 4-6 years they could be in college. College students however are usually hired for higher positions automatically and will forgo the wage jobs. Another thing, colleges have Career resource centers which specialize in helping college students get jobs. The UF center for example, gives out thousands of jobs a year to college students. [1] Also, they claim that many jobs are not advertised and are only reached through school and professional connections. Up to 80% of jobs never reach the ""job market"" via advertising. College students will have these connections via professors, internships and the resource center on campus. Non college students are barred from all this. =Opportunities= My opponent claims 54% of students have a chance of dropping out and 20% will drop out. Almost 100% of these drop outs occur within the first year of college meaning the damage financially and to their time will only be the extent of a year. They will owe 1/4th that of traditional 4 year students. The risk is not as high as my opponent claims. On year of tuition will be about $5k not the full extent of a student loan. Also, again, the experience and status of being college educated is always there. Even if you have to start out poorly, you will always have that status which will help you advance long term. People without college educations will always hit a barrier when on the rise. People without college educations will always be barred from positions requiring an education. This is huge. The opportunities presented by a college education are forever. Not having a degree will close these doors to you and they will never be opened. =Problems with Pro-College Studies= ""because it includes individuals who graduated college 20-30 years ago"" This helps to reiterate my point that college degree benefits are more long term than my opponent wants to acknowledge. Even 20-30 years later these college graduates will get jobs and according to multiple studies will be making some amount more than their non degree holding counterparts. My opponents claims about the recession are misleading. The recession caused EVERYONE'S unemployment numbers to rise. It did not affect any one group more or less than another. Of course, if unemployment is above 8% college graduates will be affected by this. =Causation Versus Correlation= My opponent makes a rather weak claim here about causation. He claims people who go to college would be successful anyways and therefore college studies are not as straight and true as they appear. However, it doesn't change the common denominator in all these studies which is a college education. People geared towards success do tend to go to college as my opponent points out. Why? Because college gives benefits. If college benefits did not outweigh the costs then these success driven people would not attempt to attend college. They attend college because of the tangible benefits to be gained. If these college eligible people would earn more regardless of college; why attend? Because college is obviously more beneficial than not. Or else they'd continue without it and earn more anyways. College enhances these skills and benefits. =Chance of Benefits= I said before, college benefits last a lifetime. The degree will always be with you, so chance of success is exponentially greater throughout their lifetime than a non degree holding person. Also, as I mentioned before, the drop outs occur almost exclusively in the first year of college so the damage done is only a year's worth. College loans for one year, not four etc. The chance of benefits and success are exponentially greater for a college degree holder than a non college degree hold over a lifetime due to the ability to be exposed to college educated positions etc. =Conclusion= * College monetary benefit is present and confirmed by my opponent * Opportunities for jobs are exponentially greater than non degree holding people * Most high level people (CEO's, politicians etc) all have college degrees * If college didn't offer benefit's so many success geared people would rely on themselves and forgo college The benefits of college outweigh the costs. [1] http://www.crc.ufl.edu..."	CON	12
12	S33b011a1-Af53113b6	The costs of a college education outweigh the benefits	"I thank my opponent for accepting. Benefits As the majority of this debate will come down to weighing costs versus benefits, we first must know the benefits of a college education. ""Properly using the present value of the lifetime earnings, adjusted for the cost of going to college and the difference in the number of working years, and excluding those graduates with advanced degrees, calculated and the three percent discount rate used in the report produces a lifetime earnings differential of only $279,893 for a bachelors degree versus a high school degree."" (http://www.insidehighered.com...) (his actual report can be downloaded here: http://chronicle.com...) Monetary Costs ""This year, according to the College Board, average published in-state tuition and fee plus room/board charges exceed $17,000 at four-year public institutions."" (http://www.cnn.com...) At four year private institutions, this number is roughly $11,500 annually. (in the Charles Miller report). Students are forced finance these costs with large loans, resulting in a student loan debt of tens of thousands of dollars by graduation. ""Two-thirds of bachelor’s degree recipients graduated with debt in 2008, compared with less than half in 1993. Last year, graduates who took out loans left college with an average of $24,000 in debt."" (http://www.nytimes.com...) The effect of this debt goes far beyond decreasing the lifetime earnings of a college graduate. Collegeboard now reports that the average age by which student loan debt is paid back stands at 33. (http://www.soundmindinvesting.com...). This greatly limits what can be done by graduates within the first 11 years of their working life. ""College graduates and postgraduates, instead of buying cars, buying houses, getting married, having children—in other words, becoming full-fledged consumers are, as Nance-Nash puts it, “running back home.” That hurts us all."" (http://chronicle.com...) Opportunity Cost To show that opportunity cost outweighs the monetary benefits of a college education, one must show that there is a better way to spend the money which can not be achieved by going to college. This can be done fairly easily with investing potential. Using the average savings rates, cost of college tuition, student loan interest rates, and investment returns, an individual who invests their college fund instead of spending it will earn $1.3 million by the age of 65. A typical four year college graduate ""will have less than a third of that."" (http://www.nypost.com...) There are other, similar methods of investment, all of which will result in more money than a college education. Another form of opportunity cost is the 4-6 years of lost job experience while attending college. With more and more job opportunities opening for those without college degrees, the 4-6 years of additional training and chances for promotion may very well outweigh the $279,893 monetary benefit of college. This job experience can also be gained while investing in the previous scenario. Shrinking Benefits of a College Education Recent graduates, which excludes graduates over the age of 25 who where able to find a job before the economic downturn, now have roughly the same unemployment rate as non-degree holders. ""Over the past year, for example, the unemployment rate for college grads under age 25 has averaged 9.2 percent, up from 8.8 percent a year earlier and 5.8 percent in the first year of the recession that began in December 2007. That means recent grads have about the same level of unemployment as the general population. It also suggests that many employed recent grads may be doing work that doesn’t require a college degree."" (http://www.nytimes.com...) The majority of college graduates that do find a job are often underemployed, working as waiters food-service helpers. ""More than half of America's recent college graduates are either unemployed or working in a job that doesn't require a bachelor's degree, the Associated Press reported this weekend... According to the Census, the number of Americans under the age of 25 with at least a bachelor's degree has grown 38 percent since 2000. Not nearly enough jobs have been created to accommodate them, which has resulted in falling wages for young college graduates in the past decade, as well as the employment problems we're now seeing."" (http://www.theatlantic.com...) With food preparation and service receiving the largest job growth between 2000 and 2010, the job opportunities for non-degree holders are only increasing. In fact, ""among the top 10 with respect to actual job growth, 3 will require a postsecondary degree and only 1 will require a BA."" (http://www.educationalpolicy.org...) The Risks of Attending College The risk one takes while attaining their college degree is the most important cost to be considered in this debate. These two risks, defaulting on student loan debt and dropping out, go hand in hand. In the United States, only 46% of all students who started college managed to complete it. ""The ""Pathways to Prosperity"" study by the Harvard Graduate School of Education in 2011 shows that just 56 percent of college students complete four-year degrees within six years."" (http://www.reuters.com...) College dropouts are forced to pay back their debt, but without the benefits of receiving a college degree. Dropouts gain a very minimal increase in wages, and spend years of their lives with nothing to show for it except debt. Default rates are also abysmally high. 19.2% of ""borrowers who graduated with a certificate from a for-profit, less-than-four-year institution"" defaulted on their student loans. (http://www.educationsector.org...) ""A recent study by the Institute for Higher Education Policy found that for every borrower who defaults, at least two more fall behind in payments. The study found that only 37 percent of borrowers who started repaying their student loans in 2005 were able to pay them back fully and on time."" (http://www.nytimes.com...) Student debt overall has now reached over $1 trillion, more than credit card debt. (http://www.theatlantic.com...) With student loans unable to be forgiven through bankruptcy, and with defaulting resulting in tax refunds being offset and wages being garnished, a college education is a high-risk, low-benefit investment."	PRO	13
13	Se78f47fa-A9a0ce329	In the United States, the costs of a college education outweigh the benefits	"All right so we're looking at the benefit to the majority. I don't believe the resolution should pertain to EVERY SINGLE PERSON in the United States. The ENTIRE population should not be looked at here. The main focus should be on the people actually paying to go to college. How would you analyze the benefits that a random person across the country receives from students paying to go to college? We must look at the group paying to go to college and what benefits they receive and whether this outweighs the cost (I'll touch on this later). 1. College does not benefit the majority Basically 68% of high school graduates went to college. So this 68% would be the ones receiving any sort of benefits. The people that did not even attend college cannot be a factor. Of course they didn't receive any benefits. But they didn't have to pay anything either! So these people who weren't even in college cannot be used by either side of this debate, because the resolution simply does not pertain to them. Now, my opponent says 45& of the people do drop out after paying for college. So this 45% does not receive any benefits. But guess what! The other 55% receives benefits from college! (I'll touch on the benefits later after my rebuttals) 55>45, therefore the majority still receives benefits. ""The Labor Department’s American Community Survey[2]tells us of another 22% of college graduates that are currently employed at a job that doesn't even require a degree. All of this points to the idea that all of the individual benefits that the Con is sure to point out aren't actually obtained by the majority of the U.S populace."" Ok so 22% of college graduates are employed at a job that doesn't require a degree... Well I'm glad that the other 78% of college graduates found their degree useful and a benefit to them. 78>22, therefore the majority receives benefits. 2. College contributes towards the growing income gap in the U.S ""According to the Center for the Study of Democracy in 2007[4], from 1973 to 2005, wages of those in the 90th percentile – where most people have college or advanced degrees – rose by 30 percent or more, and among this top 10 percent, the growth was heavily concentrated in the top 1%, which includes venture capitalists, corporate attorneys, and CEOs."" Hmmm... getting a college degree leads to making more money? A lot more money? Sounds like a good benefit to me. ""In contrast, at the 50th percentile and below, where many people have at most a high school diploma, real wages rose by only 5 to 10 percent. Although there isn't a causal relationship between the growing income gap and college education, these statistics still show an increasing gap between the payment of a blue collar worker and a white collar worker. This means that people who can’t afford college, people who drop out or fail college, or even people who don’t want to go to college are punished, and in most cases, the act that they’re being punished for is completely out of their control."" You're right - there isn't a casual relationship between the growing income gap and college education. People who have college degrees ARE making more than people without college degrees. But again, my opponent is looking at a lot of people who didn't have to pay anything for college, because they just didn't go. If you don't go to college, how on Earth would you receive the benefits of college? 3. College contributes to the destruction of the U.S health care system Ok so basically my opponent is saying that medical sutudents pay much more for their education and many of them are in debt. However, the number of medical students in the US is only about 67,000 (http://www.medicalnewstoday.com...). Compared to the 18.2 million students who enrolled in college in 2007(http://howtoedu.org...), that number seems pretty miniscule. So the extremely high costs does not affect the majority, and the majority is not left in a ton of debt. 18.2 million total>67,000 medical therefore majority is not affected. All of the other statistics my opponent is showing is basically trying to connect the bankruptcies and misfortunes of other people to the costs of college. Once again, I believe the group who is closely affiliated with the colleges and the costs and benefits of them, i.e. students, should be looked at here, not every single person in the US. Ok, the US has a very expensive healthcare. So what? --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Number 1 Benefit for Going to College - ""College graduates, on average, make a whopping one million dollars more in lifetime earnings than those with a high school diploma."" (http://www.eduguide.org...) Now isn't that worth the measly costs of college? College costs are on average $29,000 for private colleges and $12,000 for public colleges, every year (http://businessmajors.about.com...). But for paying that amount to go to college you earn 1 million more than you would have if you didn't go to college at all! Talk about a benefit! Of course there are many other benefits to college that can't be measured in numbers such as the whole experience. Meeting lifelong friends, awesome parties, living on campus, etc. Sure college can be pretty costly, but it more than makes up for it in the end."	CON	14
14	S4ef7a9a4-A8c7265d8	Parents should be required to pay for their offsprings's college education.	"I come down on the ""children should foot the bill"" part of the divide. Parents paying for college is a wonderful privilege, but, at the end of the day, I find it reprehensible to suggest that it's some sort of enormous burden that a child shoulder the load for his/her own choice. If a kid chooses an outrageously pricey school - *cough*like I did*cough* - then that's on the child. I would have loved for my parents to even cover the Expected Family Contribution portion of my financial aid package from UChicago, but it didn't happen. So what? It's my education. If I wasn't willing to invest in it, then I had no business there. Two years later, I don't feel like my $200 a month loan payments are any huge boulder weighing me down. The education was well-worth it. You are an adult once you reach 18, it's your responsibility to take care of yourself!"	CON	15
15	Se78f47fa-A28e160e3	In the United States, the costs of a college education outweigh the benefits	"Higher education is required for all but the most basic of jobs (Contention 4) You're probably wondering why I'm trying to make this point. Obviously college benefits the individual even more if it's required to get a halfway-decent job, right? That's exactly the point. But what happens to the rest of the population without a degree? They're left behind to ""feed off the table scraps"". In the book Why Our Colleges and Universities Have Given Up on the Meaning of Life, Anthony T. Kronman, a professor of law at Yale Law School, said: ""All but the most unskilled forms of labor are increasingly based on knowledge of a kind that can be acquired only in school, and in supplying that knowledge America's colleges and universities provide a tremendous service to the individuals who come to them to learn a trade of profession""[1]. There is no denying the benefit to the individual when he or she receives a college education, but those who do not are limited to all but the most basic of jobs. In defense of my contentions Contention 1) College does not benefit the majority My opponent states that the people who do not attend college should not factor into this debate because the resolution doesn't apply to them. This was true, until I brought up my fourth contention. Now, those who do not go to college must be included in this debate as a group of individuals who are suffering the consequences of not going to college. If we are forced to include the individuals who do not attend college, we are now left with a resulting 62.6% of high school graduates who have not benefited - but have actually been impacted negatively - by a college education. Contention 2) College contributes to the already growing income gap Given my response to my opponent's objection to my first Contention, my opponent's response to my second is also void. Yes, college graduates make more money, and their income has been proven to increase over time compared to the income of blue-collar workers. This is exactly what my point was trying to get across. If the wages of higher educated jobs are increasing faster than the wages of lower education jobs, then that is an income gap that is increasing. Contention 3) College contributes to the destruction of the U.S health care system My opponent seemed to misunderstand this contention. Yes, it's true that med-school students have to pay more than regular college students, and yes, they are part of the minority. But I wasn't arguing that. I was arguing that health care prices in the United States are so high BECAUSE med school students have to pay so much towards their educations. It takes an average of 11 years to fully pay off the debt that one acquires through med school, and it is for this reason that the costs of health care in the United States is so high. And seeing as the cost of health care affects everyone, this is an obvious detriment for the majority of the U.S populace. Responding to my opponent's contention: College students make more money I agree. The arguments in my fourth contention apply here as well. What about the students that do not attend college? What about the students that can not attend college? It's simple, they are forced to make less than their higher-educated counterparts. So again, I acknowledge the benefits to the individual, but that is insignificant compared to the detriments to the majority. I urge an affirmative vote. Citations: 1. http://books.google.com..."	PRO	16
16	Se78f47fa-A632eb187	In the United States, the costs of a college education outweigh the benefits	"Thanks for accepting. I'd like to start off by outlining a framework for this debate. There are a few key factors that need to be looked at: 1) The cost to the individual 2) The benefit to the individual 3) The cost to the majority 4) The benefit to the majority In any effective cost/benefit analysis, the cost or benefit to the majority is always carries more impact than the cost for benefit to the individual. Thus, for framework of this debate, the Pro must prove that the costs outweigh the benefits for the majority of the U.S populace, and the Con must prove that the benefits outweigh the costs for the majority of the U.S populace. With that, here are my contentions: 1. College does not benefit the majority The Bureau of Labor Statistics sheds some light on the amount of students who attend college, and from that, the amount who actually graduate. According to a BLS study in 2010[1], 68% of high school graduates attended college. According to this same study, 45% of those who enrolled in college didn’t even graduate. From that, we can conclude that 62.6% of the students that graduate from high school did not receive a college degree, whether they dropped out or didn’t even attend in the first place. Right off the bat, that's more than half of the U.S population who do not receive individual benefits from a college education, whether the reason be dropping out of college or not even attending at all. Although that doesn't seem like a lot, it's enough to prove a point. The Labor Department’s American Community Survey[2] tells us of another 22% of college graduates that are currently employed at a job that doesn't even require a degree. All of this points to the idea that all of the individual benefits that the Con is sure to point out aren't actually obtained by the majority of the U.S populace. 2. College contributes towards the growing income gap in the U.S Bryan Caplan, a professor of economics at the George Mason University, says that “From a moral point of view, far too many students are going to college – just as far too many people stand up at concerts”[3]. This analogy compares going to college with standing up at a concert: Sure, doing so will benefit you individually, there's no denying that, but by doing so you are effectively hindering the people around you. The more people that stand up at concerts, the more it hinders everyone there, just as the more people who attend college, the more it hinders the U.S populace, which includes both people who chose to attend college, and those who did not. According to the Center for the Study of Democracy in 2007[4], from 1973 to 2005, wages of those in the 90th percentile – where most people have college or advanced degrees – rose by 30 percent or more, and among this top 10 percent, the growth was heavily concentrated in the top 1%, which includes venture capitalists, corporate attorneys, and CEOs. In contrast, at the 50th percentile and below, where many people have at most a high school diploma, real wages rose by only 5 to 10 percent. Although there isn't a causal relationship between the growing income gap and college education, these statistics still show an increasing gap between the payment of a blue collar worker and a white collar worker. This means that people who can’t afford college, people who drop out or fail college, or even people who don’t want to go to college are punished, and in most cases, the act that they’re being punished for is completely out of their control. 3. College contributes to the destruction of the U.S health care system The U.S is infamous for its astronomical health care prices, and semi-infamous for the high cost of a decent college education. Is it a coincidence that a medical school education is one of the most expensive educations that one can receive, but the potential profit from that career path is exponentially higher? I think not. The Association of American Medical Colleges reports that tuition rates alone for first year students averaged at $50,000 a year[5]. This doesn’t include room and board, textbooks, and other expenses, and it also doesn’t include graduate school. A study done by the American Medical Association reported that the average educational debt of indebted graduates of the class of 2010 was $157,944[6]. From the same study, they found that 78 percent of graduates have debt of at least $100,000, 42 percent of graduates have a debt of at least $150,000, and 85 percent of graduating medical students carry outstanding loans. In fact, the average amount of time that it takes for a graduated medical student to pay off his or her debts acquired from med school is 11 years. It's no wonder why health care costs are so high, how else would these students pay off their loans? The AMA states that tuition fee is the largest contributor towards the astronomically high price of health care by saying ""Medical education debt is driven by rising tuition. AAMC data show that median private medical school tuition and fees increased by 50 percent (in real dollars) in the 20 years between 1984 and 2004. Median public medical school tuition and fees increased by 133 percent over the same time period. Other recent 20-year periods show similar trends."" What problems does this cause for our health care system? Reuters ranks the United States as the most expensive health care in the world[7], which is largely due to the debt accumulated by medical students and their need to pay it off. The cost of U.S health care has led to 16.7% of the U.S population who are completely uninsured because they can’t afford health care, according to the U.S Census Bureau in 2009[8]. This lack of insurance leads to the unnecessary deaths of 18 thousand people per year according to the U.S Institute of Medicine. Those who are insured still have trouble paying the costs of the health care they receive. A 2001 study in five states found that medical debt contributed to 46.2% of all personal bankruptcies and in 2007, 62.1% of filers for bankruptcies claimed high medical expenses. Having the most expensive health care in the world wouldn’t be so bad if it was also the best, but that’s not the case either. The World Health Organization ranks the United States as having the 37th most effective health care out of the 191 countries that were analyzed. So if you’re somehow able to afford health care, it’s still not even the best you can get, despite its outrageously high cost. To summarize, college education in the United States does not benefit the majority, it contributes towards an increasing income gap between blue and white collar workers, and it leads to the increasing of price in the already ridiculously overpriced private health care in the U.S. Given these contentions, I affirm. 1. http://www.bls.gov... 2. http://www.census.gov... 3. http://chronicle.com... 4. http://www.frbsf.org... 5. http://services.aamc.org... 6. http://www.ama-assn.org...? 7. http://www.reuters.com... 8. Unfortunately, this isn't available online anymore, so here's the most recent version, it gives the same information: http://www.census.gov..."	PRO	17
17	Se78f47fa-Afe29d1f6	In the United States, the costs of a college education outweigh the benefits	I am arguing that the costs of a college education do outweigh the benefits.	PRO	18
18	S4ef7a9a4-Ae75ae5b1	Parents should be required to pay for their offsprings's college education.	A high school education is not cutting it in the real world for many people. More of the jobs that pay a salary that allow individuals to live at the Standard of Living (http://en.wikipedia.org...) require a college education. No person should be burdened with the responsibilty of paying for their own higher education. That is a duty that should fall to a person's parent(s).	PRO	19
19	S1788cfe5-A35eea893	The cost of a college education outweighs the benefits	I'm not exactly sure how to respond. A) You did not source your arguments like I asked of you. Simply stating them is not enough, I could pull out any statistic or quote and say it came from a newspaper. B) You haven't read my arguments. For example, I rebutted your contention on the individual's standpoint by pointing out that in the long run College graduates earn nearly twice as much as high school graduates, making investing 20,000 - 30,000 dollars in post-secondary education an efficient and thoroughly beneficial investment. Please take the time to reread and construct actual arguments before posting your response. Thank you.	CON	20
20	S4ef7a9a4-A94c611f6	Parents should be required to pay for their offsprings's college education.	<> It was not the child's choice to be born in the first place; nor was it the child's choice to be responsible for the poor judgments of past generations that led to an enormous burden of monsterous debt. Choice is not the issue here. The Standard of Living is something that all people should be able to earn when they become adults. It cannot be widely reached without a college education. < > Yes, but if a kid chooses a modestly priced school, there is not a requirement for any parental duty to be met. < > I live in the USA and find it reprehensible to expect an eighteen-year-old to be responsible for taking care of him-/herself in today's economy without having been properly armed to do so. Yes, once you reach eighteen you are an adult. That should not mean that the parents of an eighteen-year-old that needs to pursue a college education to provide for him-/herself should be free from such an obligation.	PRO	21
21	Se78f47fa-A234d14dc	In the United States, the costs of a college education outweigh the benefits	Accepted. I will be arguing that the benefits of a college education outweigh the costs. I hope this is a great debate! :p Go!	CON	22
22	S30a568aa-A2c1595a9	Public vs Private Education	Public education is, overall, not worth it to a wealthier person. To a person who doesn't have the wealth it is much smarter to put his or her child into public education rather than private education because of the main fact that they cant pay for the private education. This means that any education is good enough for his or her child and if this means public is better choice for the family because they cant afford the private education. Even though one must obtain a higher gpa to get into a preferred school under public education just means that you can get a lower gpa in Private education because realistically you are paying in advance for a college degree.	PRO	23
23	Sf76890a8-A863f76fa	Higher Education is outdated for the millennial generation	RE: What one will earn with a college degree is almost double the amount of money that a high school graduate will earn. I don’t doubt these statistics and agree that it is probably true one with a college degree earns more than the amount a high school graduate can earn. It is beneficial for society as a whole to earn a college degree rather than without. However, in the context of this debate it is important not only to ensure that millennials are not being exploited by college degrees, but that they are using them in alignment with their core values/ ambitions, for higher education to be worth it for them. Therefore, the fact that one can earn more than a high school graduate is only a good thing for millennials given that: P1: Millennials aim to utilise university to generate the most income The millennial generation can be characterised as being ‘interested in daily work reflecting and part of larger societal concerns’, helping communities, caring more on corporate social responsibility and the environment. Importantly, millennials place higher worth on experience rather than material things. (1) 87.5% millennials disagreed with the statement that ‘money is the best measure of success’, in contrast to 78% of the total population (2). Hence, if most the millennial generation are not pursuing high income earnings directly this point is not enough alone to argue the worth of a college degree for millennials. RE: College education easily indicates to employers of higher-skilled jobs that you are qualified. ‘there is no way that employers validate that you have knowledge enough for the field they employ in.’ P1: Yes, a college education is an indicator that you have reasonable knowledge to qualify for a job. But if this is considered a reason as to why you should go to college – so you can indicate to employers of higher skilled jobs that you are qualified (and not to learn and get more skills), this merely strengthens my case that education needs serious reform! As reinforced by A4: students go to university for the degree, and not the education. P2: Yes, a college education indicates to employers that you are qualified. Similarly, a college education also increases inequality by providing less opportunity for the poor, where they are kept from knowledge! and jobs! Due to their economic position. I know scholarships exist and all that but in an ideal society a poor kid with above average intelligence should not be prevented from entering college due to monetary issues when a rich kid with below average intelligence can graduate from one. Of all millennials that are not in college/have not earned a college degree, more than a third (36%) say that it is because they cannot afford it. (3) ‘this (college debt) is not exactly a problem that needs to be solved by getting rid of college education or necessarily reforming it, but it could be solved by making colleges tuition free and paid for by taxes.’ I agree with the latter, but disagree in the former as I believe the fact that con agrees this issue can be solved by making college tuition free reinforces my point that college education needs reform (I would say the total eradication of fees is considered serious reform) P3: There also exists a large array of alternative pathways apart from a college education today. You can take an exam to do actuary. If you are skilled and want to be a lawyer badly enough you don’t even have to go to law school – you can pass 3 examinations and sit with a practising attorney for four years – you can save time and money by avoiding law school altogether. Abraham Lincoln himself says ‘if you are absolutely determined to make a lawyer of yourself the thing is more than half done…it is a small matter whether you read with any one or not; I did not read with anyone...Always bear in mind your own resolution to succeed is more important than anything’ (4) P4: A degree is not the only indicator of being qualified – experience and skills are also good qualifiers. You do not need to major in journalism, history, french, photography etc. to qualify for work in these career fields. This is as skills can be used as a qualifier (which is arguably the better indicator for job performance). RE: College education helps you go into a career you really want I admire those who know what they want in a career and go after it. I agree that a college education may help you reach there – having a college education is perfectly fine here. Especially if you know you want to be a teacher, doctor, engineer etc. What I have a problem with is many young people do not know what they truly want. We are characterised as the ‘indecisive generation’ because we have so many more options than previous generations available to us. By 2010 nearly 60% of employed millennials had already switched their career at least once. Whilst the possibility exists that some people equated a ‘career change’ with a ‘job change’, it could also mean that millennials are considering alternatives and many options when it comes to finding a career pathway either due to personal preferences or societal pressures (rapidly transforming jobs etc. as elaborated in A1, P3). (3) Additionally, 50% of students in 2005 (including myself) who declared a major changed majors. 40% of students who enrolled in a 4 year college program will not have graduated by year 5 or even year 6. (5) This is alarming given that a college degree is very expensive, and should not be wasted on young people who do not know what they want due to the pressure to decide and fast track to a certain pathway with little to no experience with the working world or what a certain career path will be like. Hence, reform is necessary to allow students to experiment and experience practical work culture etc. instead of allowing vulnerable youth to pursue something they are not interested in/do not know much about under the pressure from their parents etc. RE: RE: University education today fosters a grade-oriented, disengaged, depressed culture that fails to prepare students for real life. ‘In other words, anxiety and depression is lower among college students than the general population.’ There is a simple observational error. My opponent has compared a statistic I used (anxiety or depression affection 13% U/G and 15.6% P/G) (6) that was recorded in 2005 with results that were measured in 2015 (6.7% of the general population affected by depression). Additionally, whilst the statistic used in regards to anxiety affecting the general population being 18.1% is verified, 1) This statistic excludes those who entered higher education (like me) below 18 years. (I spent half of my first university year being underage, it is not as uncommon as it may be in America) 2) There is a problem with the method of calculation. According to con’s calculations, an accurate representation would be 18.1% of the general population in 2005 have an anxiety disorder + 5.4% of general population in 2005 with a depressive disorder(7)=23.5% affected. Therefore as 23.5% is greater than 13% and 15.6%, anxiety and depression is lower among college students than the general population. The problem is, if you combined both figures to calculate the total of those with anxiety or depression in higher education, 13% + 15.6% = 28.6% affected. This is higher than the average anxiety or depression disorders existent in the general population, and hence you can argue that anxiety or depression is higher among college students than the general population. This is an example of why this form of comparison is not very good. It is better to quote research involving direct comparison between college students and non-college students. Final Remarks I’m sorry I could not add additional arguments to this debate. Although the bit about college education increasing inequality might be considered one, I’ve mostly only included rebuttals this round due to time constraints as I’m currently travelling. Thanks for your response con, I look forward to continuing this debate! Sources: 1) https://www.brookings.edu... 2) https://www.brookings.edu... 3) http://www.pewsocialtrends.org... 4) https://priceonomics.com... 5) http://www.nbcnews.com... 6) https://www.researchgate.net...... 7) https://www.cdc.gov...	PRO	24
24	Se6ffa8fb-Abd2ed9f6	University education helps society	I’ll begin by saying that not everybody wants a university degree, therefore not everybody needs a university degree. Granted that if the state did not educate its people then we would have some serious problems, however with education up to college level being free, it isn’t unreasonable to suggest that someone over the age of 18 should have to pay for an extension on their education. In order for a society to function properly, you need more than every man, woman and child being trained to be the next Tony Blair, the next hot shot lawyer or the next ‘Topgun’ doctor. You need people with vocational qualifications and trade skills, of which someone would not attain at a university or learn in a university course. It is also important to note that by making university free, you increase the amount of people attending university devaluing the worth of the actual degree. In order for a state to fund free degrees for all would be to rise tax, because free education is never free, and someone needs to foot the bill. Countries like Denmark, Sweden, Switzerland etc have very high taxation at around 40-50% per year per income. Raising taxes in the UK during a time of recession would be damaging and counter-productive and ultimately would not help society.	CON	25
25	Sf76890a8-Ace313f29	Higher Education is outdated for the millennial generation	I'm typing this on my phone so sorry in advance for any typos/terrible sources. Thus debate has been quite problematic as... 1) whilst the premise 'higher education is outdated for the millennial generration' is clear enough, I wasn't clear on what my argument would be on - that higher education is outdated and needs serious reform whilst being maintained. 2) con accepted the debate believing that higher education was indeed, outdated for the millennial generation, and accepted anyway believing that he would argue for 'pro education' (if my interpretation is correct) 3) this confusion was found out after my first argument as shown in the comments. Hence I suggested and we agreed to compromise so that my argument would be 'higher education is outdated, and therefore not worth it to everyone'. Sadly I later found myself arguing for a position I did not personally believe in, but I will maintain this position for the sake of this debate. CON RE: millennials care more about contributing to society, and college education opens up more doors to help society that High school cannot. (E.g. Nursing, doctors) 1- Yes, nursing and doctoring can definitely improve our quality of life - yet does this really create a big social impact? According to 80000.org (1), each doctor saves about 90 lives in their lifetime. Medicine has extended everyone's quality of life for 7 years. Yet, 1) the amount of good medicine has done is overestimated 2) increase in age is not mutually exclusive to increase in disabled life - hence a full quality life is not completely true. 3) doctors cannot take sole credit for medicine. (Researchers, managers, scientists, nurses) In the end, we can save 6 times the amount of lives a doctor saves by simply donating 10% of our income wisely to a worthy foundation. 2- You don't need to go to university without creating a big social impact (the idea that these are mutually exclusive is false) examples : Stephen Spielberg, Mark zuckerverg, Bill Gates 3-Medicine is not the only way you can solve world problems it is sometimes not even the best way. What about electricity? Or education? Or government? CON RE: if college is not worth it, why are more millennials going to college than any other generation? They must be going for a meaningful degree that can help society. Millennials are going to college more than any other generation because they have the most opportunity to go, because they are pushed (45%) by their parents to go, perhaps because they believe it can lead them where they want to be also. However millennials are also expected to only be able to repay their debts in the next 11 years, 37% students regret going to college, and 49% graduates believe that they would have ended up where they are today without a college degree. (2) RE: there exists alternative pathways to college education - Con argues some fields do not have alternatives, and alternatives are not needed if college education becomes tax funded. 1- yes some fields do not have alternatives, but it is increasingly clear today that college is not necessary for everyone and not worth it for everyone. Commerce, arts and in some cases even in science. Con uses the doctor argument again, yet it is revealed above that medicine is not as influential on the quality of life than investing and utilising your money to elsewhere for society, which millennials care more about. Additionally one field of practise is not enough to validate the value of higher education for the entire pool of millennials as a whole. Only 0.27% of the population are doctors, for example. (2) 2-Con suggests that tax payer money be used to fully fund college education. Whilst that is the case for Germany today, and even Australia in the past, I personally don't believe this is possible in America. It is a strong liberal democracy that values it's small government. It also strongly advocates for the freedom of the people from 'corrupt officials' etc. To believe a call for such a huge reform with such major repercussions on the people to become successful would be too idealistic. One would have to convince the president-trump, Congress (which I imaging would be near impossible) and the judiciary to even consider this. Not to mention the inequality that exists in the US today already - to ask for more tax paying money would be difficult. RE: Skill can be better used as a qualifier for job performance - Con argues you often develop your skills from college and not every employee will give you an examination, and hence college is necessary to indicate your skills. Yes many develop skills from college but this is only because it forces people to keep working. Your own resolution to succeed is what is important. Hence, you do not need a college degree to develop your skills. No, usually a career in these fields do not require an examination, but rather an example of their work (e.g. A photograph, a piece of writing, a translation, a conversation in French etc.) which I believe speaks louder than certifications of a degree. RE: statistic argument Sorry as you didn't exemplify that you averaged the two statistics I only guessed that you compared each statistic with the general statistic of 23.5%. Yes I admit my calculation was wrong but I didn't really trust that addition of the two percentages anyway and it was used more of an example as to why comparing 2 independent means together is unreliable. As to why your calculation is unreliable - I don't have my computer here but it seems to be that you don't know the sample size of any of the statistics that you used (undergraduates with anxiety or depression, postgraduates with anxiety or depression, adults with anxiety, adults with depression) and hence am unable to make a reliable statistical comparison between any of the figures. You don't know if these population sample figures are normally distributed either, or independent from each other. Hence you cannot come up with a reasonable T statistic to accept or reject the null hypothesis which is - are the means of postgraduates with anxiety or depression the same with the means of adults with anxiety or depression? (Or likewise with undergraduates) not to mention that adults with anxiety or depression have two different sample sizes being from different sources. I have also taken statistics as a unit this year (3) Also, Thanks for this debate con! I enjoyed it despite our confusions haha. I have developed a lot more insight about millennials, about the past, and about college and higher education in general. 1) https://80000hours.org... 2)http://www.forbes.com... 3) https://onlinecourses.science.psu.edu...	PRO	26
26	S574204c1-Ae611d2c2	Personal Bankruptcy is worth doing	"Personal bankruptcy was designed to relieve a person of unsecured debt. Credit cards are unsecured debt because there is no collateral used to secure the loan. Most people are brought up to believe that not paying back a loan is ""stealing"". That's not the case with credit cards for 2 reasons: 1. The money you ""borrow"" from a credit card is not real money from a bank. The money gets created by the bank out of thin air, so anything you ""pay back"" is 100% profit for the bank. http://zeitgeistmovie.com... 2. The crazy interest rates of 20% or higher are really stealing from the public. If a person puts their money in the bank they get 1% interest, but if they borrow in a credit card they pay 20%. The ONLY ""negative"" or consequence of declaring bankruptcy is that it will be on your record. This is not as bad as it sounds. 1. Because after 7 years, nobody will care and 7 years is not a long time. 2. During those 7 years, you will probably not need credit. 3. Even if you did need credit during those 7 years it wouldn't be impossible to get it. If you build up your credit score, you will get many offers for credit cards. It's possible to get up to $50,000 or more in credit cards. just by paying the minimum balance If you are a college student, your student loans can not be forgiven with bankruptcy. However, you can pay back your student loans with credit cards. The same is true if you owe the IRS. You can't get rid of what you owe to the IRS with bankruptcy. but you can pay the IRS off with credit cards. If you have $50,000 is student loans or $50,000 you owe to the IRS, it would be very simple to just pay them off with credit cards and declare bankruptcy. Starting life with a zero balance rather than -$50,000 is much better. If no bankruptcy, in 20 years you would have the money paid back and be at zero or with bankruptcy, you could save money and be at +$50,000 or more due to interest. That's worth it! If you don't have college debt or IRS debt, it would still be worth spending the $50,000. You can buy new car, fly around the world, get new clothes and electronic devices. If you declare bankruptcy, they can't take any of that away from you. The car should last you 7 years so you wouldn't need a car loan again. Instead of spending 20 years to pay the $50,000 back, you can start at zero with $50,000 worth of things and SAVE money instead of paying back credit cards. Not only is it worth it, You'd be crazy NOT to do it! You get $50,000 for free and in return you get a mark on your record that nobody will care about after 7 years. No brainier!"	PRO	27
27	Sc5b8d1f0-Aacb3b12f	Is Online College better then Traditional College (Pro=Yes) (Con=No)	I think Online College will benefit the world in many ways. One way is that you don't even have to leave your house then going to college. Just get up and go on your computer. Online colleges are cheaper than Traditional college. So that's a thumbs up for the people without a lot of money. Online colleges offer as much education as a Traditional college but its even better.	PRO	28
28	S50de86d9-A2c3ba735	Free college is a terrible idea.	"I believe that free education is a gift to society and students everywhere. Sometimes when I look at my college debts, I think that ""College education should be free."" I do however think its a terrible idea to completely free all colleges because then not only would the economy suffer, every department would suffer because than they would not be able to provide enough money to hire teachers, teacher assistants, and students working with professors would not get funding for a research project. The class size today is roughly 400 - 600 students in a first year course (I. Biology, Chemistry, Psychology) but making education free would result in there being 1000+ students in each class and not enough teachers. The school suffers, students suffer, the economy suffers, and we end up with nothing."	CON	29
29	Se45fb8ba-Ad937faf1	Is Indian Education System Is Justified	Firstly, I would like to thank my opponent for debating this topic with me. Now, since I am Pro, I will define the topic that we will be debating. I am stating that the Indian Education System in question is the American system and that we will not be debating the Canadian system. Also, by justified, we will be debating whether the resources put into the system is worth the outcome. As well, since there is no such system, we will be talking about Natives IN the American Education system. Thank you and good luck. Now, I will begin my statements by saying my stance on the subject, then talking to you about my points. I strongly believe that the Indian Education System is justified, for the following reasons: By teaching the Natives we are giving them the tools to get into a post-secondary school of their choice, which the tuition fees help pay for better schooling for everyone. While we can get a lot of sustenance from just people of a European background, many natives have been attending college, giving our schools even more funding. Next, I am not trying to be rude, but Americans are not viewed as treating the First Nations very well. But, when we teach the Natives it sheds a better light on America. This gives them a better chance to have shipping and trading with other countries. If a country is willing to pay top dollar for some oil, but values it's native peoples very much, they are more likely to buy from another country if America looks like it treats its natives poorly. Finally, there have been some very successful Native Americans, such as Philip Martin and Joe Shirley. If these men had not received a proper education, they would surely have not been as successful. There are some Natives that have the potential to be great politicians and diplomats, but will never get the chance to if they have no or little education. This is why I believe that the Native Education System is justified.	PRO	30
30	Se6573295-A3398432	The electoral college ought to be abolished.	"The value is morality as it is consistent with the word ought in the resolution. The standard is the veil of ignorance. Prefer because 1) allows us to see past our biases and into what a truly just world would look like. 2) the veil grants equal freedom and power to each individual. 3) the purpose of justice is to ensure the state doesn't discriminate against people based on factors they cannot control. Next is the contention. Abolition of the electoral college system is consistent with the veil of ignorance. 1) The electoral college is unpopular with the American public. Per Gallup 16, only 47% of Americans support the electoral college system. 2) The electoral college grants unequal power to some. Under the electoral college, some people""s votes are worth more than others, i.e in California the proportion of votes per electoral vote is higher than in Wyoming. 3) Political inequality is inconsistent with the veil. If we are establishing a society under the veil no one would say that certain people's votes are worth more than others. Case. 1) Turn, the electoral college disincentivizes candidates from traveling to different parts of the country. Example, dems don""t waste time in Texas because they know they will never win the state, but under a popular vote system they would be incentivized to appeal to the millions of democrats there. 2) You say candidates will only focus on states with large populations, but 1. you have no warrant, 2. your arg doesn't make any sense as small states are worth very few points in the electoral college, 3. they shouldn't have to appeal to a small state if they are popular with the majority. 3) Next onto your point about there only being 3 instances where the loser of the electoral college won the popular vote this: 1. Proves that the electoral college doesn't fairly represent the will of the people. 2. All times it happened with a republican victor, proving the system""s inherent bias against democrats. 4) 1. How is a democratic society unfair, you give no warrant. 2. I only advocate for a society that is moral under the veil of ignorance, which a society without the electoral college is. 5) Constitution is bad it limited the ability of blacks/women to vote."	PRO	31
31	S1b21a2f2-A65fe9d19	Free University Education	"Hello. Firstly, I would like to thank Philocat for giving me my first debate with a person who isn't trying to troll me, as I am rather new here. My opponent has stated that the right to free education as listed in the U.N. Declaration of Human Rights does not necessarily apply to tertiary education. This is true, as what the text actually says is ""Everyone has the right to education. Education shall be free, at least in the elementary and fundamental stages. Elementary education shall be compulsory. Technical and professional education shall be made generally available and higher education shall be equally accessible to all on the basis of merit."" (1) However, it does state that everyone has a right to education and that education shall be made ""generally available and equally accessible to all.""(1) College education in many countries is ridiculously expensive, and, as a result of this, education is not ""generally available and equally accessible to all."" People may not be able to afford being burdened with massive bills and/or student loans. They may have a family to feed but can't do so on their current salary and want to go to college so that they can earn more money, but due to the increased Harvardization of higher education, the potential increase in salary will be offset by paying for college. Granted, a small percentage of the population is rich enough that they can just afford college easily with money from their own pockets, but this elite is not representative of the majority of the populace in countries where higher education is not communal or nearly communal. My opponent has stated that college is non-essential, non-core education, when in fact an average of 2 years of college education are dedicated to core learning. My opponent has stated that college is for only the brightest in our society to do the most cognitively challenging jobs, such as that of a physician, lawyer, architect, etc., while himself admitting that nearly half of people (not sure where he's referring to, though) have attended/are attending/will attend college according to current rates. This is contradictory, as highly specialized academic professionals such as those listed by my opponent make up well below half of employed people. My opponent has stated that making college free is unfair on those who don't attend college. This is a self-disproving argument, though, as, if college were free, these people who don't attend college would be able to remedy the issue by, you guessed it, going to college. For free. My opponent has stated that free education will make people want to do more drugs and alcohol because they're not paying for the arbitrary cost of college. I'm not sure I understand the reasoning behind this, but I suppose he's referring to the stigma that college students retain when it comes to partying and whatnot, and that they would care less about their education because the money is not coming out of their pocket. This isn't really an issue, though, because people that behave that way in a setting with free higher education would either clean up their act or be filtered out of the system, just as is the case in countries where college is not free. And countries where college is free generally have a higher population percentage with degrees, so obviously most people don't behave as my opponent has suggested. My opponent has stated that attending an absolutely free university that only serves to widen your options is a bad thing somehow. He seems to believe that this will decrease the size of the pool from which countries draw unskilled labor. It won't. Even assuming that there is a low carrying capacity for educated jobs, as my opponent suggests there is, those who don't manage to land one will just end up doing lower-paying jobs, just as they do in countries where college is not free. They wouldn't have to worry about paying for student loans on this low salary because, again, college would be free. There would be roughly the same percentage of people working these unskilled jobs because, going along with the hypothetical situation that my opponent established wherein there is a small carrying capacity for educated jobs, only a set number of people won't have low-paying jobs anyway. Plus, these people with low-paying jobs will have a degree that gives them increased potential to advance their status and makes for an educated, intelligent, well-informed populace. My opponent says that going to college breeds a sense of entitlement, and that graduates won't want to work low-paying jobs. Some will have to, though, if, as my opponent said, there is only a set number of academic careers. My opponent has stated that ""If the financial advantage that graduates receive is balanced out by requiring them to pay for their tuition, then no group has a disadvantage."" This is true, except for people who can't afford to pay for college. Which, in many countries, including the U.S., Canada, U.K., etc., is, you know, most people. Plus, if education is free, this whole point can be disregarded because *everyone can attend college.* They don't have to stay at a disadvantage if they don't want to. My opponent has stated that ""so it is only fair that if someone is going to get a financial benefit from going to university, then they should be expected to financially subsidise it."" There are these magical things called taxes. They are for things that benefit the public, like free education and such. They're pretty handy in situations such as these. 1- http://www.un.org..."	PRO	32
32	S912e5771-A21e68fd5	college tuition too expensive	The cost of college is becoming a big problem in the U.S. But that is not the fault of the universities. If the economy and other main factors where not in such a hole, there would be no reason to raise tuition. However, there are many options for students out there to find help with college tuition. For example, the state of Georgia will pay for a students college tuition if he or she graduates with a GPA of 3.5 or better. Now that is just Georgia but that is an example of how the there are options out there. The Pell grant system also though, not everybody gets this opportunity it is money given with out being expected to be paid back. The point I want to get across is that college tuition being raise a crossed the nation is not the result of a greedy chancellor or a football team that is not selling out the stadium. There are also different routes students are able to take to get to a university. There are many students who attend a community college for 2 years and then transfer to a university to complete there degree. I also agree that college is worth every penny because of its life experiences and how it builds you into a better person. Creating better payback systems only creates loans and loans equal debt.	PRO	33
33	Sf76890a8-Aa406efe7	Higher Education is outdated for the millennial generation	Rebuttal 1: The millennial generation can be characterised as being ‘interested in daily work reflecting and part of larger societal concerns’, helping communities, caring more on corporate social responsibility and the environment. Importantly, millennials place higher worth on experience rather than material things. (1) 87.5% millennials disagreed with the statement that ‘money is the best measure of success’, in contrast to 78% of the total population (2) - lighth0us3 This is true, though there are also many opportunities to be able to obtain a degree for a career that helps society out. For example, one can't become a nurse without a nursing degree, and not only is higher education necessary for doctors and specialists, who also help society, but post-higher education is as well. With a high school diploma, one is very limited in what they can do, so a college degree opens up many ways in which millennials will be able to help the community in some way. Also, if college education is truly outdated for millennials, why are there more millennials than any other generation going to colllege or who have a college education?[7] They must be getting a college degree for some reason, and it would be logical, that since the millennial generation is more interested in doing a job that is helpful to the community, that they go to college for a meaningful degree that will lead them to a career with which they can do much for the community. Rebuttal 2: P1: Yes, a college education is an indicator that you have reasonable knowledge to qualify for a job. But if this is considered a reason as to why you should go to college – so you can indicate to employers of higher skilled jobs that you are qualified (and not to learn and get more skills), this merely strengthens my case that education needs serious reform! As reinforced by A4: students go to university for the degree, and not the education. - lighth0us3 Well, this isn't the only reason to get a college degree. There are plenty of other reasons, which I gave a few others already. If this was the only reason to get a college degree, then yes, college would be outdated. Agreement 1: P2: Yes, a college education indicates to employers that you are qualified. Similarly, a college education also increases inequality by providing less opportunity for the poor, where they are kept from knowledge! and jobs! Due to their economic position. I know scholarships exist and all that but in an ideal society a poor kid with above average intelligence should not be prevented from entering college due to monetary issues when a rich kid with below average intelligence can graduate from one. Of all millennials that are not in college/have not earned a college degree, more than a third (36%) say that it is because they cannot afford it. (3) This is why I think, perhaps, I misunderstood what con was supposed to be arguing for, because I agree that college education should be reformed to be available to everyone regardless of income. This isn't a concession, because I believed this before I began the debate, so I'm not sure that this should be a reason why voters should vote against me, since I simply may have misunderstood what con was arguing for. Again, I was thinking along the lines of that con was arguing that college education in general(and not how it necessarily is currently) is not outdated for the millennial generation. It wasn't clear upfront (to me at least) that con would be arguing that how college education is currently executed is not outdated for the millennial generation. I would agree that how college education is currently executed is outdated, and I agreed with that before the debate began, so again, I'm not sure if we should continue this debate or not. Either I misunderstood still, or this point is irrelevant because it can be solved by making higher education tax-payer funded. Rebuttal 3 There also exists a large array of alternative pathways apart from a college education today. You can take an exam to do actuary. If you are skilled and want to be a lawyer badly enough you don’t even have to go to law school – you can pass 3 examinations and sit with a practising attorney for four years – you can save time and money by avoiding law school altogether. -lighth0us3 But I don't believe it works that way for every field. To become a doctor, for example, I don't think you can just do something similar: Pass examinations and sit with a practicing doctor for a few years. Maybe one can do this, and I don't know that one can. Even if it does also work that way for doctors, there are so many fields out there and I doubt all of them work that way. Not to mention, if we did make college tax-payer funded, then either route is just as viable as the other as neither cost money for the student. A degree is not the only indicator of being qualified – experience and skills are also good qualifiers. You do not need to major in journalism, history, french, photography etc. to qualify for work in these career fields. This is as skills can be used as a qualifier (which is arguably the better indicator for job performance). -lighth0us3 Yes, but it's often the case that one doesn't obtain the skills needed unless they have a college degree. Not every employer will give you an examination to see if you're qualified and have the skills for the job, so a college degree is necessary to indicate to them you have the skills needed. Rebuttal 4/Agreement 2 Additionally, 50% of students in 2005 (including myself) who declared a major changed majors. 40% of students who enrolled in a 4 year college program will not have graduated by year 5 or even year 6. (5) This is alarming given that a college degree is very expensive, and should not be wasted on young people who do not know what they want due to the pressure to decide and fast track to a certain pathway with little to no experience with the working world or what a certain career path will be like. -lighth0us3 The only thing I have to rebut here is the cost wasted you brought up. No matter how you go about getting experience within a field, it will cost money. There's nothing that can be done about that some people will waste money. Whether you waste it on paying for classes that are going to be useless because you changed career paths, or do it by paying for some sort of career workshop or really any alternative to education but later change your career path, you're still spending money and it costs money to teach people in a specific field or give them experience. I agree that there should be something done to change the pressure to decide a career path immediately, or at least some sort of class or something that will give people experience in a given career field. I also agree with what you said in the following paragraph that reform is needed. Again, this might be due to that I wasn't clear on what con is arguing for. I absolutely agree, and would have from the beginning before accepting this debate, that education should be reformed. Rebuttal 5 This statistic excludes those who entered higher education (like me) below 18 years. (I spent half of my first university year being underage, it is not as uncommon as it may be in America) -lighth0us3 Well, yes, the statistic I used was a survey of adults 18+, but if teenagers were included it would likely only lower the percent a little. Either way, the point was that adults, in general, have more instances of anxiety or depressive disorders than university students. Really, the problem with my statistic is that it includes university students(those who are 18 or older). That would lower the percentage since the percent of university students with depression or anxiety is lower than for adults out of college. The problem is, if you combined both figures to calculate the total of those with anxiety or depression in higher education, 13% + 15.6% = 28.6% affected. Those numbers cannot be combined though, as they represent two completely different populations. The 13% statistic is those who are in undergratuate education with depression or anxiety, and 15.6% is those in graduate school with depression or anxiety. It's not 28.6% of college students(of both grads and undergrads) that have depression and anxiety, rather, it's the average of the two numbers(though it's a little more complicated than that because the number of undergraduates outnumber the number of graduate students in education). First, we need to take into account how many graduates there are in post-graduate school, then add it to the number of undergraduates. That's the total number of college students in either undergratuate education or post-graduate education. Now that we have that, you take the number of graduate students who have depression or anxiety(15.6% of the total number of graduate students), add it to the number of undergradute students with depression or anxiety(13% of the total number of undergraduate students), and then divide that by the total number of graduate and undergraduate students. Adding the percentages does not work, and the actual percentage of college students(including both graduate students and undergraduate students) with depression or anxiety is somewhere in between 13% and 15.6%; it would be closer to 13% than 15.6% since undergrads outnumber graduate students(I don't think I need a source for that undergrads outnumber graduate students right? That should be common knowledge that most people stop after 4 years of college education) Source: [7] https://www.whitehouse.gov...	CON	34
34	Sc5b8d1f0-A7656be6d	Is Online College better then Traditional College (Pro=Yes) (Con=No)	Actually, you can find this information at college; go to your dorm, turn on your laptop, connect to the college wifi. I think it is safe to stay that in America, almost all colleges will have wifi. My last point was colleges allow students to socially interact. Going to college is much like high school, in the sense that you will have to adapt to your new surroundings, and make new friends. It is also said that in college you are more likely to find other students with similar interests and ideas, and thus better able to connect with them. Going through college will be a struggle at times, but the experience and people are well worth it.	CON	35
35	Sf76890a8-Ab17bdcfe	Higher Education is outdated for the millennial generation	"I would actually agree that higher education is outdated for the millennial generation, but I believe it is still necessary. The first point I shall make is that, while I agree that there is probably not much to gain from a college education since we have access to all of the information at our fingertips through the internet(though, I would argue that in many ways the internet has made us dumber; however if you're smart, you know how to find high quality articles on matters, such as using google scholar instead of plain google) the formality of going through a college education does have a lot of bonuses to it. 1) What one will earn with a college degree is almost double the amount of money that a high school graduate will earn. While what my opponent said that a college degree earns you less than it did in the past, it still is a fact that a college degree earns you more than a high school degree does today. ""According to the U.S. Census Bureau, the annual salary average differences between educational levels is staggering: High school drop outs: $18,734 High school graduates: $27,915 College grads (with a bachelor’s degree): $51,206 Advanced degree holders: $74,602"" [1] Now, while a high school graduate will be able to earn more money upfront, whereas a college student will be spending a lot of time on college, probably after a few years of a college graduate being in the workforce will ballance out to the money that the high school grad earned. If you take these numbers(which are not what the person makes first out of college or first out of high school, so these numbers would be lower for that, but I'll use them anyways). Suppose you have person A who is going to college before doing any kind of work, and Person B who started working full time right out of high school. Person A is not earning anything while Person B is earning money. Person B, in 4 years(the amount of time the average college degree takes to earn) would earn $111,660. At this point, the college grad would then be able to start working in the work force, and they would be getting $51,206 a year. After another 6 years the college grad will have earned 307,236, while the high school graduate, in 10 years(4 years of working while person A was in school, and 6 years while both were working) of working will have earned 279,150. So, in the long-run, a college education will earn you much more. And that's not taking into account that as a college student, you can easily have a part-time job while going to school full-time. I did this myself and still retained excellent grades. I suppose Person A, however, may have a lot of college debt, which my opponent mentioned that higher education is very expensive. However, this is not true for every college graduate. Some had such good grades that they earned scholarships, others came from a family that was well off enough to afford to put them into college, and others went to a community college(which are much more affordable than 4 year universities) and then transfered to a 4 year university and saved a lot of money going that route. In addition, this is not exactly a problem that needs to be solved by getting rid of college education or necessarily reforming it, but it could be solved by making colleges tuition free and paid for by taxes. However, now that I looked into the average debt a college student has when coming out of college, it's $30,100[6]. This amount can be paid for by less than two years of work, since the average college student makes $24,000 more per year than a high school student. Sure, for the first year and half, they would in reality be making the same as a high school graduate since they have to pay off their debt, but after that they will catch up to the high school graduate in less than 10 years and surpass them in the amount of money they gained over the years. Here's another example where a college education would greatly benefit a person. Depending on what field a person goes into, they will earn a lot more than others too. So, people could easily choose the higher-paying careers. For example, I'm currently going to school to become a psychiatrist. This takes an addiitonal 4 years after a bachelor's degree to complete, usually. The average annual salary a psychiatrist has is $193,680.[2] A psychiatrist earns more than double the amount the average wage for advanced degrees, and doctors and other specialists are in the same boat. If more people were to consider going into the medical field, they would earn a lot more and it would definitely be worth it. There are also other fields which pay well as well. 2) College education easily indicates to employers of higher-skilled jobs that you are qualified. Now, if you take a high school graduate who learned everything online, there is no way that employers validate that you have knowledge enough for the field they employ in. Unless employers started giving some sort of examination on their field of work instead of requiring a bachelor's degree, a high school graduate who learned all of the necessary things for that career via online with no degree is at a disadvantage for getting that job, and probably will earn around the average a high school graduate makes. So, in order to make what my opponent proposes come true, where people could just self-educate themselves via the internet instead of a formal education, we would have to force employers to stop looking for college degrees from people and have them hand out some sort of examination to test if the person is qualified for the job. There's no guarantee employers would do this either, unless we forced them to. 3) College education helps you go into a career you really want As mentioned in the previous point, to get a specific career, it's often the case you need a college degree. Even if it's not earning enough to ballance out the fact that maybe you have some debt and that you weren't earning more money while you were going to college, it still means you got to go into a career you enjoy which you may not have been able to if you didn't have a college degree. RE: University education today fosters a grade-oriented, disengaged, depressed culture that fails to prepare students for real life. As for my opponent's argument that university causes depression and anxiety disorders, I would like to point out that the study they linked to says "" The estimated prevalence of any depressive or anxiety disorder was 15.6% for undergraduates and 13.0% for graduate students"" [3] while my opponent was slightly off for the numbers, that's not what my point is going to be about. Let's compare that to the anxiety and depression rates of the general population. In the general population 18.1% of adults have an anxiety disorder[4] while 6.7% of all adults have depression[5] for a combined total of 24.8% of the general population with either. In other words, anxiety and depression is lower among college students than the general population. This is a good thing that the rate of depression and anxiety is lower amongst college students than the general population. It indicates that college is not as big of a stressor on people than events later on in life. Sources: [1] http://howtoedu.org...; [2] https://www.bls.gov...; [3] https://www.researchgate.net...; [4] https://www.nimh.nih.gov...; [5] https://www.nimh.nih.gov...; [6] http://ticas.org..."	CON	36
36	S16199f60-A932077ac	Ending Education Subsidies	"Re: Con’s Contentions His statistics about college graduates earning more are begging the question. I agree that college graduates earn more than non-graduates. The question is why—simply stating that they do earn more proves nothing. Con then argues that many people would not be able to go to college without subsidies. I agree. My whole argument is that there should be less college education, because it costs a lot (both directly, and in the form of the opportunity cost of not working during that time) and usually doesn’t increase productivity. C1: Human Capital Con misunderstands my studies. Perhaps my algebra and calculus examples weren’t clear. My point is that the only reason algebra helps with calculus is that its part of calculus—you need to know how to do algebra to do calculus. And calculus doesn’t help with anything that doesn’t explicitly involve calculus. Con claims that he isn’t arguing for general transfer of learning, and therefore my arguments don’t apply. But by ‘general transfer’, I don’t mean general education requirements. I mean anything that isn’t actually part of your job. Not related to your job, like how the study of human societies in sociology class might be sort of related to social work or teaching, but actually part of your job. Like, learning how to use Excel will make you more productive if your job requires using Excel. Taking classes provides students with a specific set of knowledge, and unless you use that knowledge in your job, it doesn’t make you more productive. Transfer of learning studies failing to find evidence of general transfer of learning doesn’t just mean that classes completely unrelated to your job are useless; it means that classes that aren’t pretty much exactly the same thing as your job are useless. In the experiments I’m citing, educational psychologists tried very hard to find general transfer of learning. They made the sets of problems as similar as possible to each other to make it easier for students to transfer their knowledge from one to the other. The problems in the study I mentioned last round are very similar—if people can apply their learning to different situations, then surely they’d be able to apply it to different problems as similar as estimating the area of a square and estimating the area of a triangle. But they didn’t. Even extraordinarily similar problems found no evidence of transfer—in a 1974 study, they trained students to do a word problem involving cannibals and missionaries. They then tested to see if that training transferred over to the exact same problem with the words ‘cannibals’ and ‘missionaries’ replaced with ‘jealous husbands’ and ‘wives’. They found no evidence of transfer—even though the subjects were not the average person, but college students! [1] The literature on Transfer of Learning theory shows that the only way to get better at X is to practice doing X. People can succeed in college classes because you’re tested on exactly what you studied for—but work in the real world is rarely exactly what you studied in college, so college classes usually won't make you more productive at work. C2: Signalling I don’t think I need any evidence to show that people that go to college are smarter and harder working than those that don’t—it’s self-evident to anyone who’s ever been to high school, and observed the differences between college-bound students and non-college-bound students firsthand. Think about what gets you into college—good test scores and grades. Are people with good test scores and grades just as smart and hard working as those without them? And, of course, people who go to college and graduate and probably smarter/harder-working than those that go to college but drop out. Anyway, even though I don’t think I should need it, I do have evidence. The average IQ for college graduates is 115—that is, the average college graduate is smarter than 5/6 of the population. [2] In addition, going to college shows conscientiousness—that is, being goal-oriented and forward looking (being low on conscientiousness means being more laid-back, present-oriented, and impulsive). Going to college for 4 years before getting the reward shows that someone is goal-oriented and forward looking. This is an important trait for employers—conscientious employees are more reliable, more motivated, harder working, and have lower rates of absenteeism. [3] Con argues that college causes students to be smarter and harder-working, which completely contradicts his earlier claim that he wasn’t arguing that general transfer of learning exists. College classes making someone smarter in general would be general transfer of learning. College may improve work ethic more than sitting around doing nothing, but it certainly doesn’t improve work ethic compared to actually having a job. Think about it—would you want to hire someone with a college degree that had never held a job? The average full-time college student puts in only 14 hours of studying per week—compared to 24 in 1961. [4] Hardly a way to build one’s work ethic. Coincidentally, the average return to education has sharply increased during that time—the opposite of what the human capital model would predict. C3: Useful Education My argument is that only education involving specific job training, like medical schools, significantly increases productivity. For other degrees, like sociology, the investment is not worth the cost. If someone won’t make enough to pay back an unsubsidized loan, then that just proves that that money would be better invested elsewhere. Saying that you need a subsidy for an investment to be profitable is admitting that the investment is a waste of money. [1] Reed, S.K., Earns, G.W., & Banerji, R. (1974). The role of analogy in transfer between similar problem states. Cognitive Psychology, 6, 436-450. [2] http://www.assessmentpsychology.com... [3] Roberts, B.W.; Jackson, J.J.; Fayard, J.V.; Edmonds, G. & Meints, J (2009). ""Chapter 25. Conscientiousness"". In Mark R. Leary, & Rick H. Hoyle. Handbook of Individual Differences in Social Behavior. New York/London: The Guildford Press. pp. 257-273. [4] http://www.aei.org..."	PRO	37
37	S33b011a1-Afda36275	The costs of a college education outweigh the benefits	"Rules: Burden of proof is shared. No new arguments in round 5. Drops are not concessions. Forfeit in any round is an automatic loss. College is defined as ""an independent institution of higher learning offering a course of general studies leading to a bachelor's degree."" (http://www.merriam-webster.com...) No negotiation on this. Round structure is as follows: 1) Acceptance 2) Arguments 3) Rebuttals 4) Response to rebuttals (defending your own case) 5) Summary"	PRO	38
38	Sf76890a8-A45fc8ae	Higher Education is outdated for the millennial generation	I thank Capitalistslave for accepting my challenge. I will now proceed with the debate by stating my arguments. Also happy new year and sorry abt the confusion earlier. Technology & globalisation has made knowledge taught at higher education increasingly redundant P1) Technology has created access and opportunity. It allows humans to communicate and collaborate with each other. Teachers are in many ways no longer the primary sources of information. It has become increasingly flexible to reach out to information and consume it, allowing us to be eager participants in lifelong learning. [1] [2] When we have the internet, college degrees are increasingly redundant as the content we learn can easily be learnt online. P2) University curriculums rarely change. [3] Colleges are too slow to reinvent themselves [6]. An example of this is accounting where graduates struggle in practical situations that are not visited in their classes. Technology has revolutionised accounting so much that much of the content that taught in accounting are also automated and do not need to be learnt. [4] Essentially it becomes clear that most students are attending university for the degree, and not education. P3) Jobs and knowledge are transforming too rapidly in today’s world to validate the worth of a single/double rigid university major. We are constantly multitasking, we are time poor and we are predicted to have 7 career changes in our lifetime. [5] What is the point of studying for a job with a curriculum that was written decades ago when said job did not exist? University education is no longer worth it P1) Unlike previously thought, a four-year college degree has no guarantee for decent wage growth due to wage stagnation [6] Figure 5. Hence the argument that college is an investment as it helps you become a high-income earner is not true. Hourly wages for young college graduates were lower than they were in the 1990s [6] Figure 5. This further reinforces my point that higher education is not a worthy investment. P2) Higher education is a money consuming machine - in 2014 college tuition has effectively risen to 1125% of 1978 figures. Compared to the 279% increase of the consumer price index, this is massive. In an increasingly tougher labour market, to have a huge sum of tuition fees to repay is an additional burden. [7] The costs that are incurred in higher education are uncorrelated to market trends, making it difficult for students to support themselves after. University education today fosters a grade-oriented, disengaged, depressed culture that fails to prepare students for real life. P1) Evidence suggests that mental health issues are increasing amongst students in higher education. In 2005 alone, 10% of undergraduates seriously considered attempting suicide. In 2007, 13.8% of undergraduates and 15.6% of postgraduates were screen tested positive for depression. Students facing financial struggles because of university and those who spend more hours working face a higher risk of mental health problems. [8] University students are four times more likely to be depressed/anxious than others their age. [9] ‘Most lifetime mental disorders have first onset during or shortly before the typical college age (Kessler, Berglund, Demler, Merikangas, & Walters, 2005), and these problems may be precipitated or exacerbated by the variety of stressors in college life, including irregular sleep patterns, flux in personal relationships, and academic pressures.’ [8] If long term mental disorders are mostly developed during or just before higher education – we must seriously consider the benefits to cost ratio of putting oneself in a high stress situation, and the costs may be permanent & long lasting. Students nowadays go to university for the degree (appearance), and not the education (depth). P1) There is a lack of intellectual curiosity and creativity in universities. An indifferent culture is a dangerous culture that has its youth disengaged and complacent. If this is the culture in uni today, there is not much reason to go. Now I’m not claiming that it is specifically the fault of universities, but still the rigid structure of university courses perpetuates ancient dogma (that is no longer relevant) about what you can get out of university. (e.g. a job, a successful life etc.) Under the guidance of ‘helicopter parents’, students were less open to new ideas/actions and instead was stressed, anxious and self-conscious. Today they are pushed for academic achievement, ‘completely uninterested in the items in their resumes’ etc. Many college students think that they must study a specific area and their paths have already been set out for them. (like engineering, law, accounting etc.) [10] A combination of old beliefs about having a straightforward path to success with the inflexibility of university courses results in students being prevented from fully discovering their interests etc. This creates a generation that is disillusioned, trapped and dissatisfied. Additionally, when acknowledging world famous institutions such as Oxford and Cambridge, a former student is not surprised when increasingly seeing unaccomplished graduates from these places. This is because a ‘sense of entitlement, elitism and false idea that one is somehow better for having attended Oxbridge can prepare a person for a frankly unimpressive life. One characterised by complacency and security rather than by the ability to make genuine contributions to society.’ This is where graduates aim for a privileged life instead of a meaningful one. [11] This is yet another example where passion is no longer present in higher education, and how many turn to it to create illusions of success and accomplishment in correlation with our increasingly superficial world. Concluding remarks I’d like to add once again that I’m not against university. But I do believe in terms of the material/content that is taught much reform is needed for university to truly be worthwhile. Sources: [1] http://online.purdue.edu... [2] http://www.sanfordbrown.edu... [3] https://www.ft.com... [4]https://books.google.com.au... [5] http://www.wsj.com... [6] http://www.epi.org... [7] https://www.bloomberg.com... [8]https://www.researchgate.net... [9] http://www.smh.com.au... [10]http://www.slate.com... [11] http://www.telegraph.co.uk...	PRO	39
39	Sf3328136-A24e493bc	Free tuition for college students through government taxation should be supported.	"While my opponent wastes valuable time disputing that the cost of college is one of the most expensive things people will ever ""buy,"" I'd just like to point out that of the people that have a college education, that education cost vastly more money than any other thing they will ever buy. This is to say that the average person will spend more on college than they will on their cars, watches, prostitutes, etc... unless somehow the average person shells out $100,000 for their watch and car. While the restrictions I speak of do not necessarily follow the resolution to the letter, I'd also like to point out that we've been given a terrible resolution for implementation in the United States and to implement it here would mean the introduction of compromises and restrictions, and indeed, many social programs in foreign countries are contingent upon certain conditions - the government in the UK won't pay for a student with a High School GPA of 1.8 to go to college. It's simply a waste of money. In these restrictions, I mentioned the lack of need to give tax money to millionaires. If they're not receiving the benefit of the tax, why should they pay it? Everyone pays social security tax, yet many people don't use it. We all pay taxes used to provide welfare, yet most of us don't use it. Therefore, it would follow that there is no change in the system to tax people for social programs they won't use. Everyone would pay the tax, and the usage of the program would depend on income level. I also mentioned that outrageously priced institutions should not benefit from this resolution. This of course makes perfect sense in the current system. Food stamps do not pay for persons to buy fillet mingion every night. As with that program, this resolution should provide a basis for education. The education from a state school such as Purdue University or Iowa State is perfectly acceptable - in fact, some of these schools are much better than more expensive private institutions (Purdue in engineering, Iowa in political science). >> ""If free tuition through taxation were to be a reality, then all college students should be able to benefit equally."" Why? Not all college students ARE equal. This is quite clear in the fact that colleges turn down students based on academic performance or provide financial aid to those students who otherwise would not be able to pay for college. Why should the 4.0 student recieve the same benefit as the 0.8 student? That's ludicrous. Why should the millionaire get the same ammount as the student who is also using food stamps. That's ludicrous as well. >>""Unfortunately, per the restrictions assumed by JCMTarzan, the Dept. of Education calls you up and tells you that you cannot attend because it is too expensive. The program didn't really work in your case, did it? A highly specific example, but it makes the point."" It makes the point that this program can easily be adapted to suit individual needs, not that the program is fallacious. Obviously, if the student is of a high enough caliber to be accepted to MIT, then there's no reason the government can't put them in a higher strata of assistence. This is done with hundreds of government programs - why not this one? >>""There is no guarantee that such a huge investment, which could only happen by way of taxes increasing, as my opponent admits, would prove to be worthwhile."" It is a fact that persons with a college education make more money (on average) than those that do not. When people make more money, they pay more taxes. It's pretty clear that there is a relation between education and tax income for the country. >>""""There is a definite correlation between the investment in education and the literacy rates and success of a country."" -What might this correlation be?"" It would seem self evident that when a (successful) investment is made in education that literacy and competency rates in a country would rise. Foreign governments outspend the US on education, an the US finished LAST in the most recent international physics olympiad. >>""Whatever happened to self-made men (or women), self-reliance, and self-responsibility? The primary problem with socialism is that once you are getting the ""free ride,"" as it were, that many, many people do not want to get off. Shall the government in turn provide graduates of their free-tuition system with jobs if they are unable to find one themselves? Why not: they got them into college in the first place."" I'm not entirely sure what the self-made man and self-relienace has to do with this as a whole. Those are American philosophies, and you admitted in the previous sentence that this resolution did not deal with the United States exclusively. Therefore, introducing American philosophy is fallacious and irrelevant to the argument writ large. >>""I agree that the applicant pool will be larger; of higher calibre I am not so certain: the more applicants there are, the lower their average calibre would be. That's a simple law of statistics. More students, larger classes, etc, less quality of services rendered (education)."" I will admit you have a point with the higher caliber issue - I must admit I misspoke. The pool itself will not be higher caliber, but the accepted pool will be. Institutions will take the best they can until they are full. The pool will increase, but there is no reason that schools will reduce the quality of their education - if they grow proportionally and maintain the ratios between students, classes, and professors, the quality will not change. >>""Universities now have breeding programs in line with Social Darwinism? A shock, to say the least ;)"" Actually, that would be quite welcome... I merely meant the American workforce. >>""-OBVIOUSLY not. If more people go to school, then more are educated. Of course, educated is not synonymous with intelligent, hard-working, or even contributory in any way to the overall well-being of society."" I see - therefore, according to you, the Chinese, Brits, Spainards, Poles, etc... must all be more intelligent than Americans. It has nothing at all to do with their education system and the fact that their college students are of higher caliber on average. >>""Someone somewhere is getting the raw end of the deal - paying the taxes but not having children, paying the taxes while having children but not seeing them benefit because of good economic status, etc. Other societies do as they like, sure, but in providing ""free"" tuition do they not devalue the education that is sought? Whatever is worth having is worth earning, worth working for, sacrificing for; do we not appreciate what we have worked hard for more than what is simply ""given"" to us (while at the same time being taken from others)?"" The very nature of politics is that there are ALWAYS going to be winners and losers. Are not the losers in the current system those who cannot afford to go to college at all? Why should they be denied a college education in the same country where a high school education is free? Other societies DO do as they like, and their results seem to be eclipsing the United States. Is their education devalued? I'd say not. Our Chinese foreign exchange students at my college spend about 3 or 4 times as long studying for classes as American students because they view their education as so important. >>""Reread ""The Republic,"""" Indeed, please do. Education in The Republic is the responsibility of the state. >>""and side CON"" Indeed please don't. The nexus of Con's argument is that it is ""unfair"" to people. All political processes are unfair to someone. This is not new news."	PRO	40
40	S912e5771-A91328e29	college tuition too expensive	The cost of college is becoming an issue all across America. With the current state of the economy, the percent of unemployed workers and the cost of college can seem like a far fetched goal. Many people who may not receive a scholarship or enough government funding may not be able to attend college. This is a big issue because having a college background is becoming an important factor in the business world today but, the cost makes many look for other options. The idea of having to pay back thousands of dollars makes people question is it actually worth it? From my stand point it is. You may not leave college doing the same thing you began with but the life experiences are endless. College gives you not only knowledge but builds you into a better person by taking you through life experiences. With the cost of college increasing it may hurt generations to come because they will not be able to experience, learn and grow into a better individual. Without future doctors, lawyers,athletes etc where will the world be in the future. Who will run the country, perform surgeries and close business deals? All of these questions will be as questions unanswered if people are not able to afford college. There should be more options better payback systems to make the cost of college more affordable.	CON	41
41	S912e5771-A82b747ec	college tuition too expensive	"Tamar Lewin published an article ""Burdens of College Loans on Graduates Grows"" in the New York Times. It reflects on some of the statistics based from 2008 students taking out loans to pay for their education. The facts show that people that have to pay more money for school will be less likely to finish school and be able to provide for their families in the future. Since our economy is doing bad all the big institutions have to raise their tuition to survive in this harsh depression. Many believe that when it comes to education the price for it should not matter because, we live in a society that is education is very important. Mark Kantrowitz, the publisher of Finaid.org and fastweb.com compiled evidence from students taking private and federal loans to cover their education while in school. It came to the starling amount that two thirds of bachelor recipients were in debt about 24,000 dollars. For many people with low income it will take them about twenty to thirty years to pay off their school loans. Mr. Kantrowitz coming up with the statistics to show how from 1993 the tuition was less than half of 2008. Even though there are some ways to go to college without being in big debt, many people do not want to go to junior colleges then to a university. This is a long process and some people want to really get the college experience. As a student here I do have several friends that took that route and one of the main problems with that was having your courses transferred over to your major. In places like Georgia that do pay for your tuition if you have a 3.5 or higher is a great thing, but other states do not have it. Either way you look at it people are going to have to pay back some money. When you graduate you never really graduate with any money because college is a grind."	CON	42
42	S16199f60-A1fcc55d1	Ending Education Subsidies	"First off, any books cited by Pro cannot be taken seriously. I don't have the books available and without an online reference, that can be checked by the voters, voter are not to consider Pro's books a reliable source. Every source that Pro cites, I am contesting as invalid. Therefore, voters please only consider Pro's sources valid if you have personally gone to the library and verified Pro's sources. CONTENTIONS C1) College is required for success Pro concedes that college is required for success. He says that it should not. He argues for an ideal scenario rather than the actual one. The essence of the debate is the Pro is saying that the government should end subsidies in education. He has the burden of proof to show why. How does he show this? By saying that college should not result in higher incomes. It doesn't matter if Pro thinks that. It is not true. He admits that it is not true. Ending educational subsidies will not make it so. I am not arguing about whether college should or should not result in higher incomes but rather that it does. C2) College is unaffordable to the majority of students College, which my opponent admits is a path to success and higher income cannot be afforded by the majority of students. My opponent concedes this point as well. C3) Unsubsidized loans do not fill the need Pro does not address this contention. A dropped contention in a debate is considered to be conceded. Conclusion: Education should be subsidized. With all the premises true, the conclusion holds true as well. Summary of my case Pro has conceded my entire case. The rebuttal that he provides merely voices his opinion that college should not lead to higher income and a successful career which is not the case. Pro's only standing argument now is that there should be less college education because it costs a lot and doesn't increase productivity. I agree that it costs a lot but argue that college is in fact beneficial. This is the reason I am defending subsidies. So, now the only point of disagreement is whether college is beneficial. If I can prove that it is, then I win the debate since my opponent has agreed with every other point that I made. My rebuttal to Pro's case below will prove this point. PRO'S CASE R1) Human Capital I must admit that Pro had an unorthodox way of arguing the resolution. His main argument for why education should not be subsidized is that education is not beneficial at all. So, let's get to the arguments that Pro makes in order to back up his claim. Pro's main argument seems to be that there is no transfer of skills, i.e. Calculus won't help you in a job that has nothing to do with Calculus. However, if your job does involve Calculus, then it will help you in your job. That part is fairly straightforward. Pro's entire argument on this point comes down to the point that college students should not take breadth courses since it doesn't ""teach them how to think"" and they won't use those skills in their job. I don't claim that a sociology major taking classes in Algebra ""teaches them how to think."" It merely provides them with knowledge of Algebra so that after graduation, the college students ends up well-rounded and knowledgeable in a wide variety of fields. In the future, if their job requires Algebra, they would be able to perform it. If they want to change careers or decide after graduation to persue a career that does require a fundamental knowledge of Math, it benefits them that way too. This is the reason why schools and to some extent colleges have basic requirements for graduation which often involve taking breadth classes. Pro is essentially arguing for vocational education which is not beneficial precisely because of the points I mentioned above: lack of options if you change your mind. Pro's next argument here is that classes that aren't exactly the same as your job are useless to your job. To back this up, he cites a study where students were made to do word problems. When the word was changed, Pro claims there was no evidence of transfer. This is completely unrelated to college classes. Classes are intended to provide knowledge of the subject matter, not specific transferable skills. This knowledge is used on the job. For example, someone who wants to be a Sociologist or psychologist must learn how to interact with people and understand human nature. This makes them more knowledgeable about the subject and better able to use this knowledge on the job. They don't need to do exact problems that they are doing on the job but need to learn the general content. Here is another example. If a student wants to be a web designer, they need to learn how to write HTML. They can learn this in college. After they graduate, the pages they might have to design may not be the exact same pages that they did for homework in college. However, without a fundamental understanding of HTML, they can't design web pages. Pro's source is absolutely irrelevant and have flawed methodology. I read the link he provided in round 1 (Detterman). In page 2, the author gives examples of how skills are not transferred. Essentially, the people conducting the study taught a mentally retarded women to give the correct amount of change to a cashier when she bought something. They then made her try it in the real world where she failed. From there they jumped to the conclusion that skills are not transferable. R2) Signalling Pro's first paragraph argues that college students are smarter than high school students. I argued that college students are smarter and harder working because they go to college so obviously, we agree that college students are smarter and harder working, the question is why. In his second paragraph, Pro argues that this is not the case since general transfer of learning doesn't exist. However, all Pro has argued for so far was an isolated word problem which did not affect how students responded to different word problems. My argument is that college makes students more knowledgeable (has nothing to do with Pro's study) and it helps them meet deadlines and promotes hard work. Pro would have students working right away but if a job requires a degree in Sociology, how will the students get the required knowledge that is gained by a degree in Sociology? R3) Useful Education Pro says that for degrees like Sociology, investing money in it is not worth the cost. However, as I pointed out, the ideal scenario is that everyone goes to college. The government should be encouraging this. The way to do that is by offering subsidies. Comments on Voting: I usually don't make comments on voting but in this case, it is imperative that I make these comments while Pro still has the chance to respond to them. Conduct: If Pro wanted to argue that skills are not transferable, he should have made a resolution as such. I may or may not have accepted. However, he makes a resolution that educational subsidies should end. This while technically correct wastes his opponent's time debating something that may not be what they intended to debate. My intention for instance was to debate the benefits of subsidies, not argue about transferability of skills. However, I did take the time to argue it and negated Pro's arguments while providing better ones. Sources: Pro cites books. So, the reader is left wondering which page the studies are mentioned. The fact that Pro cited books should be enough to penalize him for sources since books cannot be verified. Only one of the claims he made is backed up by a study that can be accessed online."	CON	43
43	S50de86d9-A45481082	Free college is a terrible idea.	"To start off, I'd like to remind my opponent that their objective is to prove that free college is a good idea. I'm also going to define a few terms. Free- without cost or payment https://www.google.com... Idea- a thought or suggestion as to a possible course of action https://www.google.com... Section 1: People have been talking about ""free college"" for a long time. There are a ton of expectations of what free college should be, the most popular of which is subsidizing tuition to $0. One could literally right a full essay on the different conceptions of ""free"", especially other things that people expect to be free. In the link that I will post beneath this round, it claims that one of the disadvantages of a free college system, is how disproportionately well-off backgrounds/futures are in the current college system. There are rich and poor kids in college, with the rich mostly found in 4+ year and private colleges and the poor commonly found in public 2-4 year colleges. With these differences, setting up a free college system would almost nearly mean giving more money to the students of rich families than the students of poor families. Even with special benefits granted to people, the richer kids would always end up with more money. This is one factor that student benefit protesters never look at, so if they accomplish in setting up a free college system, they'll be in for a big surprise. https://newrepublic.com... Section 2: In this section, I shall go over 10 reasons why free college is a bad idea. 1. It is technically stealing. People work really hard for their money, and the government would take large proportions of that money because someone has to pay for those colleges. In the link, an angry parent states that her money should go to her kids, not some 18-year-old who's too lazy to get a job so they can pay for their own college. If this becomes a case, which is very likely, college students may become lazy, because they'd no longer have to work to stay in college, so they won't get jobs when they leave. Heck, in one video I watched on YouTube (I will post the video's link below), a supposed ""rich guy"" believed that he gets paid, just because he graduated college and has a degree. With free college, this could be all college graduates. But at the moment, that outcome is just a theory. 2. No one owes us anything. We've all spent our lives getting things that other people have paid for. And we want that to count for college too? Giving your kids what they want because they whine is considered ""bad parenting"". Kid's can get used to this, and if they do, they'll expect everyone to pay for whatever they want. This will make going out into the real world really hard for them. Setting up a free college system, will not help them join the ""maturity club"". 3. Free college, like Obamacare and Medicaid, is a Socialist idea. Looking back through history, one should come to realize that Socialist ideas never succeed. If one can't realize this, they might as well be uneducated and I'm sure there are a lot of students who don't want uneducated people trying to change their education system. 4. Only 21% of people graduate community college. Why would we make something free, if people are just going to waste their and the teacher's time with it? 5. We're not ready to change anything about our colleges. Federal surveys have shown that current ""college graduates"" can only read at a 7th grave level, and this level has been decreasing since 1992. This goes to show that we should focus on Middle and High school so that we can have a better education going into college so we can ""advance"" our education. 6. If colleges become free, a 2-year degree, would become worth as much as a High School diploma. ""If too many people easily obtain a college degree, then the value of that degree becomes equal to what a high school degree had been for future employment purposes"" - Lloyd Bensen IV 7. Everyone can already afford a community college, even with a 40-hour minimum wage job. Even after paying their college fees, people still have enough money to pay for gas, food, and other necessities and luxuries. Why fix what isn't broken? 8. College is close to being un-necessary. People are finding ways to get a job they enjoy, without having to go to college to do so. If we encourage this, we'd no longer have a need for college in the first place. So why make something we don't necessarily need free? 9. Our economy doesn't need the free college. With most jobs requiring no less than a 2 year degree, and many new jobs that only require a high school diploma on the verge of being created, colleges are yet again, not needed. So, making it free would just be pointless. 10. This is one of the big reasons why free college is bad. We are far in debt. Our national debt currently rests at *18.1 trillion and counting. Adding ""free"" college wouldn't help any. It's bad enough that the government can't pass a budget and cut expensive programs such as Social Security and Medicare, both of which are sending us into a fiscal hell. Making colleges free would just increase our current debts, which isn't really helping the economy either. We would literally achieve nothing from this. http://thefederalist.com... I'd like to thank my opponent for accepting this debate and I look forward to reading their arguments."	PRO	44
44	Sfad66533-Adc7846ea	No money for education	"Since I don't really understand the Pro's rant, I'll dissect it to crystallize the topic for myself (and the voters.) 1: The resolution is obviously advocating that the federal government cut funding for public education. As a result, a better resolution would be, ""Resolved: The U.S. Federal Government should cut funding for public education."" 2: The Pro states, ""big business is telling us what to teach..."" I assume this is an argument against organized curriculum, or (if you want to extend it that far) the No Child Left Behind Act. 3: He cites a Berkeley example, but to my knowledge the federal government provides no funding for private colleges (Harvard, Stanford, etc) just pays for public schooling (community colleges.) Maybe they provide funding for STATE colleges, I'm not sure. Clarification is needed, but until that is done (by the Pro, because I'm not going to discuss colleges.) That said, on to contentions: ==== C1: Education is a fundamental human right. ==== http://www.un.org... Article 26 of the UN's Universal Declaration of human rights states, ""Everyone has the right to education. Education shall be free, at least in the elementary and fundamental stages. Elementary education shall be compulsory. Technical and professional education shall be made generally available and higher education shall be equally accessible to all on the basis of merit."" Moreover, article 22 states, ""Everyone, as a member of society, has the right to social security and is entitled to realization, through national effort and international co-operation and in accordance with the organization and resources of each State, of the economic, social and cultural rights indispensable for his dignity and the free development of his personality."" In today's society, an education is a key component of the exercise of economic, social and cultural rights within society (especially that of America.) The poor are often subjugated (social), they have inferior access to superior care (economic) and they are eliminated from upper circles, preventing aspiration into a higher echelon of power (cultural.) Two separate articles of the UN's declaration of human rights provide us with details proving that education is a human right. ==== C2: Federal funding is necessary to ensure all individuals are able to access their right to education. ==== Often the poor and minorities are denied equal access to education. Federal funding allows those who cannot afford private schooling to access education at an equal level with all other individuals. The Pro is advocating a plan that would require schools to revert to a system of tuition-based education in all levels, meaning that ""private"" schools would be only type of school. Private schools are notoriously well known for high tuition rates, and these high tuition schools would not allow access to those who cannot afford them. As a result, a private education system would literally block out all of those unable to afford high expense tuition costs. Besides the poor, those in the middle class with multiple kids would struggle to pay for all of their child's tuition. It is a burden enough on parents to pay for multiple trips to college, but if one experienced college like tuition fees for all 12 years of primary education, then it stands the reason that those who struggled to afford college would not be able to afford it in this new system. The problem is, without federal funding to education, the gap of uneducated children would widen - allowing all of the poor, and a large portion of the middle class to fall in. ==== C3: Curriculum based education provides the most stringent standards for student development. ==== Classes that allow entirely free teacher autonomy will allow good teachers to teach, but it will also allow bad teachers to teach. Insofar as curriculum forces bad teachers to teach at least adequately, then those students who are at-risk for a poor education are now better off. Additionally, a good teacher will be able to innovate to fit a curriculum, thus his or her teaching ability is slightly, if at all, impaired. Essentially, curriculum provides standards that require teachers to be at least moderately competent in their field. ==== C4: Capitalist-based schooling will exacerbate socioeconomic problems between minorities and the white, upper class. ==== Insofar as minorities are generally less well off financially than whites, if we build upon the reasoning of contention two then those most likely to not receive an education become minorities. The more minority students that are uneducated, the less likely it is that the minority-white economic gap will shrink. Instead, high-rollers in the upper-middle to upper class will still dominate the higher echelons of the workforce, while the lower classes will have 0 access to the means necessary to allow them to transcend these divisive lines. Public education allows lower class students to excel at a close to equal level with their majority counterparts, and as a result it allows more lower-class kids to permeate the educated, skilled workforce. ==== C5: Privately funded education will not benefit the economy. ==== Drawing upon the reasoning of contention two once more, if more students are left out of the loop then more american workers are uneducated and unskilled. In the globalized world we live in, it is necessary - if america is to remain competitive - for it to be made up of a highly skilled, highly educated workforce. We are not longer an industrial-based nation (like China), where manual labor is the primary source of income. America is now a post-industrial nation, where services in the technology sector are the most important goods that we sell. The less individuals that receive the skills and knowledge necessary to do these tasks, the worse off the American workforce is. Either the American economy will lose its global competitiveness, or it will be forced to revert back to an industrial economy to meet the ability of its workers. Either way, the economy suffers. It is because education, a fundamental human right, can only be adequately provided by the Government, that I must negate."	CON	45
45	S912e5771-Afdc9d71a	college tuition too expensive	"Your right, not everyone is fortunate enough to be able to afford a four year institution but that does not mean they must ""do what they gotta do"" and settle with an inferior junior college education. Everyone should be given an equal opportunity to receive an adequate education. However, this is not at all what happens with the financial aid process at most schools. Those students who come from wealthy backgrounds and can afford expensive tuition don't have to worry about graduating in debt, like the two-thirds of the rest of the college population. The ""financially needy"" students, who come from homes that don't have a stable financial situation, also don't graduate with as much debt because the financial aid they receive is very significant. Tuition, room and board, and sometimes even books is often times covered for these students. Therefore, it is the middle class students who represent the two-thirds of students who graduate with at least 24,000 dollars in debt. It is not fair to these students to have to settle with junior colleges because they also have to work and go to school to pay for there schooling at their junior college."	CON	46
46	Sc1b11a97-Adb55424a	Free Education	"I thank Maggie for creating this debate. The resolution The resolution seems to be some what ill defined, ""free education"" is just thrown out there. As such I think it will help to better define as the Pro what I will seek to argue for. I will argue that a society should have some sort of ""free education"" available. As such its my understanding that Con is arguing that free education should not exist. What does ""free education"" mean ? As Con notes, nothing is free, by free education it is meant that the one receiving the education either does not pay for it or pays only a small amount of their education cost, hence from their point of view the education is ""free"". I propose that we define small amount up to 25% of their education cost. So where does the other 100% - 75% of the funds come from ? tax revenue, in other words government funded. I think its also worth noting that I am not arguing that every possible instance of education should be free, just that some sort of free education should be available to all, at the very least what is considered the fundamental basics of reading, writing, comprehension, maths, and what ever else is deemed necessary to function in that society. Countering Cons arguments Con says...""Now if you agree that free education is a good things than do you agree that the taxes on long island and New York State in general are affordable, and conducive to a thriving economic environment? "" Even if we grant Con that taxes are unaffordable in long island and Newyork state how does this even remotely suggest that this means that no free education should be made available ? it doesn't, its a complete non sequitur. Con says...""Point being nothing in life is free. Most of the countries are going broke right now except western Germany, because in the E.U. health care is ""free"" retirement benefits are ""free"", the whole E.U. is on the verge of collapse bc of the free benefits from the government."" Even if its the case that the EU is broke because of retirement benefits and health care benefits this isn't relevant to the debate. It seems to me what Con is really taking a swipe out is any form of government funded benefits for people. I would point out there is an issue of if a society should have some kind of welfare safety net. I think its also worth mentioning there are other factors involved here like, are the rich getting out of paying their fair share of tax ? are there issues of wealth distribution, for example is only a small percentage of the people getting the majoirty of the economic gains ? Does the society have unnecessary obstacles in being producitve ? etc, etc. Arguments for ""free education"" 1) Economic A better educated population will be able to do things that a lesser educated can't. This has consequences for both individual and societal economic outcomes. 2) Civic If we accept modern democracy for all its flaws is the least worst form of government, then a government can only be as good as the majority will allow it. An educated population has a better chance at better government, but of course not guaranteed. 3) Fairness No one asks to be born, nor asks to be born into the circumstances they are born into. Without free education some people will be denied basic education just because they were born into bad circumstances. Education basics aren't just educational basic, they are life basic, as education basics allow further learning and opportunities into other area's. I look forward to Cons response."	PRO	47
47	Sfad66533-A64bd10d5	No money for education	"http://www.finitesite.com... My opponent is welcome to support my position. There are computers at public libraries, colleges and universities, available for free. Courseware is also free. This is more accessible to the poor because Hours are whenever you want to learn. There are no problem libraries. There is no one to bully you. The education you get will be the education you want. You can learn your whole life and not just K-12. I have already made that argument and my opponent replied incoherently. Again I am not advocating private education. I am advocating no education. A school voucher is a payment to a private school with funds that should be used for public schools. By using money that should go to improve the public schools, and instead giving it to private schools, School vouchers hurt the poor. The school system is not only racist but sexist and classist as well. Is there more emphasis on boys' athletics or girls'? How about in the colleges? A free educaion is exactly what we don't have. Remember it costs you. This will be simple. Everyone who would like all the money back that they spent for an education will vote for me. The ""education"" that you get is completely worthless. No employer will care if you know what the capital of Uruguay is. If you are self-taught that will catch his or her attention. It's clearly: Is the education you get in the public schools worth the money you are paying for it? You have to keep paying this $1500 for your whole life but are educated for only a few years, only about one-fourth of your life, so the real cost is about four times that, $6000 per year. So that's 1500 for life vs. ""education."" A self-taught education is far superior to a classroom ""education."" A community or neighborhood learning center with all the people participating vs the current system. Only losers cry ""irrelevant."" Well the teachers do worse than the students on these tests so what does that tell you? Again ""private."" I am not advocating private. I am advocating no. If the purpose of education is to prepare you for work then why not let big business finance education as they are eager to do and see what happens. The purpose of education goes far beyond that, however. How does English Lit prepare you for employment? It doesn't. It's not supposed to. Hannah Montana would be fine. Do you know the Bone Dance? YouTube would be more entertaining. Use the time you save to google ""open courseware"" as I have already advised. Visit your nearby computer, library, college and university. I have left out some of the details in order to allow the individuals to think for themselves. What is an ""education?"" Are we getting one? How should it be done differently? If you vote for my opponent but think about what has been said I will be happy. If you vote for me that would be OK too but more important is to think. My opponent is 21 and still in high school. I rest my case."	PRO	48
48	Sfad66533-A39bf723f	No money for education	"I support the value of independent thought. I believe that the mind learns best at its own cadence and under its own direction and motivation. I believe that opportunities for learning should not be confined to youth but should continue throughout life. The criteria that would support this value in an educational system are freedom of learning and expression not found in schools varieties of learning experience beyond the ""classroom."" Allowing each mind to set its own path Diversity of students and especially teachers. Anyone who wants to teach should be allowed to teach unless there are other issues. Free education for all. Currently anyone planning on attending college needs to do some serious thinking about money. Finland is said to have the best school system. We might be able to learn a few things from them but I doubt it. I support a home education model applied to the neighborhood with participation by all."	PRO	49
49	S5346a370-A4b5ded85	Free Education Lowering Poor Rates	"Free education at the four year, private university level is not required. Many social mobility and career opportunities are available through the two year community college, which can be affordable to many Americans. My local community college will cost me around $5,000 USD for tuition. This is very much affordable. Although the job market can be tough, it is not impossible. You can have a good chance of snagging a minimum wage position if you put in a lot of effort in your resume and interview. If you sell yourself really well and do your job well, you won't have trouble. Today, discrimination is still an issue in employment, but it is a lot less common than in the past. I will be using an example. Let's assume I am a Black American Male. I am 18 years of age and reside in a poor community (AKA, ""Ghetto"") and am fresh out of a under-performing minority High School. I live at home with my mother and father, who both work very hard to make ends meet. We don't have a lot of money, but we manage to get by since they both work. Thanks to my hard work and refusal to conform to gang culture that plagues my area, I am able meet the criteria for both merit based and need based aid to my local community college. Now that $5,000 tuition is even more affordable to me. Using a well crafted resume, and selling myself as a young black male, pulling himself out of the ghetto, (and a little luck) I am able to get a minimum wage job. This job pays for my car and gas, so I can get to the college. I stay at home with my parents, to save money. Whatever my scholarships can't pay, my job can. After I finish up my degree, I can now get a higher-paying job. (Same as before, carefully crafted resume, sell yourself, bit of luck, seek affirmative action). This higher paying job allows me to afford my own place, so I can get out of the ""ghetto"". If wanted to advance even further, I can continue my education using this higher paying job. The job would allow me to pay loans to go to a 4 year university if I so wished. I could also just keep working and not continue my education. As you can see above, it is entirely possible and feasible to climb the social class ladder without free education. Many community colleges are relatively inexpensive. Free education at the four year university level would be a costly program, simply adding on to the growing national debt. I will also point out, any able bodied person can join the military in a non combat position to receive the benefits it provides. The military is often very generous with its benefits in exchange for your service, including helping you pay for college. In summary, there are many ways to pay for or receive a college education without a national free college program."	CON	50
50	S95535bbc-A62849736	The Electoral College is a logical system	"The Electoral College is a system that has benefited the United States because of the way it keeps politicians from staying in the big cities and pushes them out to the smaller states as in those states, Each vote can be worth more in smaller states than each vote in big states like California, New York, Etc. The electoral college resists the idea of mob rule, Which has taken over many different countries. It resisted anti-black hatred throughout the south in the early 1900's. If they could threaten everyone into voting for their candidate, Then there would've been countless racists running our country. Also the idea that the Electoral College is undemocratic is ridiculous. The United States is NOT a democracy, It is a constitutional republic (look it up). The founding fathers thought pure democracy was ""pure evil"" and made the electoral college for exact reason of avoiding pure democracy. The way our government works is based upon elective representation, Why should we change that?"	PRO	51
51	Sb6d2bbc8-A978a4960	The Electoral College Should Be Abolished	"My opponent's case rests on two main points: 1. The Electoral College is outdated 2. The Electoral College is inacurrate In the first point, my opponent argues that the Electoral College was created because the average voter would not understand politics. This is not accurate at all - in the first Presidential election, 1790, only ""white, male adult property-owners"" could vote. It wasn't until 1850 that almost all adult male citizens, even those that owned property, could vote.[1] In other words, it wasn't until 1852 - the 17th presidential election[2] -that the uneducated could not vote for the first. Further, the fact of the matter is voting wasn't even important to begin with. George Washington won the first election in 1788 with only 11,000 popular votes - and that was with no opposition! Four states out of the ten that voted had no popular vote, and another one (Massachusetts) was split between popular and state legislature vote.[3] As I noted in my last argument, it wasn't until 1832 - the 12th Presidential election - that every state except South Carolina (which refused to adopt popular vote until after the Civil War) adopted some form of popular vote.[4] As to the second point, my opponent argues the Electoral College is an inacurrate measure of the nation's votes. He cites the 2000 election, the most notorious, as an example of that. The problem is, 2000 is the only election outside of three 19th-century elections where the Electoral College has failed to follow the popular vote. I also believe my opponent's argument that giving all a state's votes to one candidate is unfair to those that voted to the other, is not very accurate. You could say the same thing about any election - that, for example, those that voted for Congressman B had no impact on the election because Congressman A won, and thus gained the entire office. Despite this, however, I think the Electoral College actually proves its worth here. Rather than requiring a national issue on voting reform,there is nothing stopping statewide initiatives to adopting a proportional representation system. Two states, Nebraska and Maine, split their votes based on congressionial districs as well as statewide vote, and several other states are or have considered it. The fact of the matter is, the Electoral College proves it is much more flexible than any other system here. References: 1. http://www.infoplease.com... 2. http://en.wikipedia.org... 3. http://en.wikipedia.org... 4. http://en.wikipedia.org..."	CON	52
52	S1b21a2f2-Ab8191c9f	Free University Education	"Thank you Pericles :) Cost of university My opponent's main argument is that the cost of university disproportionately harms the poor, and hence university education isn't ""generally available and equally accessible to all."" But that is the reason we have student loans! If one gets a university place, they will almost certainly get a student loan. This means that there is no immediate financial barrier to going to university. No matter if someone is living in poverty, they will be able to go to university because of student loans. Therefore, the statement that free university education is needed to make it available and accessible to all is just not true. 'My opponent has stated that college is for only the brightest in our society to do the most cognitively challenging jobs, such as that of a physician, lawyer, architect, etc., while himself admitting that nearly half of people (not sure where he's referring to, though) have attended/are attending/will attend college according to current rates.' I do not contradict myself, because the former is what university should be and what it was designed for, and the latter is what university has actually turned out to be. Until 1997, university was just for those who required specialist education to do the most cognitively challenging jobs, but when Tony Blair became Prime Minister in the UK, he instigated a 'student drive' that wanted 50% of young people to attend university (1). So the concept of university education being the norm is a relatively new one, and it has had negative consequences - namely regarding the over-saturation of the graduate market. There are simply too many graduates. 'My opponent has stated that making college free is unfair on those who don't attend college. This is a self-disproving argument, though, as, if college were free, these people who don't attend college would be able to remedy the issue by, you guessed it, going to college. For free.' Well yes, but as I have made very clear, we do not want everyone to go to university! Only 27% of jobs require a degree, so the last thing we need to be doing is encourage everyone to go to university by subsidising it. Value of university My opponent argues that those who do drugs and party excessively will be filtered out of the system. I agree with this, but generally those who don't take university seriously are only kicked out at the end of the year (i.e when they fail the year), by that time two things have happened: 1. £9000 has been wasted 2. From the government's perspective, they have lost one year's worth of tax revenue from a person partying at university instead of working. So, although those who don't take university seriously will eventually be kicked out, it is better to have university fees so: a) They are less likely to attend a university in the first place b) They will be less likely to waste £9000 if they have to foot the bill. 'And countries where college is free generally have a higher population percentage with degrees, so obviously most people don't behave as my opponent has suggested.' The reason for that is simply that more people go to university in countries with free university - I still maintain that more people would use university as a three-year party. Benefits of university? 'My opponent has stated that attending an absolutely free university that only serves to widen your options is a bad thing somehow. He seems to believe that this will decrease the size of the pool from which countries draw unskilled labor. It won't. ' Except most graduates don't think like that. If someone has spent three years extra in education, being told they will get a graduate job, they would naturally feel entitled to a graduate job and will often refuse to work in other jobs. Moreover, they would generally only want to work in a job that accords with their degree (for example, a law graduate would only want to work as a lawyer), so instead it seems that a degree actually narrows one's prospects - at least from a psychological perspective. 'those who don't manage to land one will just end up doing lower-paying jobs' Even if graduates do decide to do this - if they are just going to go into low-paying jobs eventually then why shouldn't they just go straight into them after high-school? If a graduate doesn't take a graduate job, then the £27000 cost of a university course is essentially wasted. 'Plus, these people with low-paying jobs will have a degree that gives them increased potential to advance their status and makes for an educated, intelligent, well-informed populace.' But if these people want to 'advance their status' then they will not be committed to doing the low-paying job they are doing now, also, if people doing low-payed jobs are always looking for a chance to get a better job, then any resembelance of stability will be lost from these industries. Furthermore, those who choose not to go to university are not necessarily less intelligent, educated or well-informed than those who do go to university, as real-world experience often develops wisdom in a more beneficial way than theoretical education does. Evidence for this is how employers generally value experience over qualifications. Universities, on the other hand, only really cater to educate someone in a specific field, instead of the holistic education that is needed for a well-functioning member of society. Moreover, the anarchism that is rife in student communities can even foster a desire to not conform to society. 'My opponent says that going to college breeds a sense of entitlement, and that graduates won't want to work low-paying jobs. Some will have to, though, if, as my opponent said, there is only a set number of academic careers.' Or, as is shown by the high-levels of graduate unemployment (2), they will just resort to claiming benefits until their 'dream job' turns up. 'This is true, except for people who can't afford to pay for college.' These people do not exist, because there is such a thing as a student loan. 'Plus, if education is free, this whole point can be disregarded because *everyone can attend college.* They don't have to stay at a disadvantage if they don't want to.' And we definitely do not want everyone to go to college. Considering that only 27% of jobs require an associate degree, it is economic madness for a government to spend £27000 per person to be educated for a job that likely does not exist. __________________________________________________________________________________________ (1) http://www.telegraph.co.uk... (2) http://www.independent.co.uk..."	CON	53
53	Sc1b11a97-Afc50de7a	Free Education	"No need for Pro to thank Con regarding implied accusations of communist leanings. So-called ""free"" education is merely one part of a ""slippery slope"" towards the western European socialist style of government. Con does not make the argument that ""free"" education would be the sole reason for onerous rates of taxation, but rather another building block towards it. Regarding military and police funding relative to the public tax burden, this debate centers on ""free"" education, not a ""free"" police or military force. While our debate has centered on the relative merits of a so-called ""free"" education ( the term free being somewhat subjective), the meaning of education can also be somewhat expansive. Does education in the quasi-utopian world of Pro also include various forms of apprenticeship and other vocational training or do only the ""elites"" blessed with college level high IQ qualify for ""free"" education? Finally, since when does getting something for ""free"" equate to benevolence? In a world of ""tough love"" where very few things were ""free"" the desired end result could be considered the very essence of benevolence."	CON	54
54	Sab7e692e-Aaf189905	a penny is worth more then a dime	Check and mate, I successfully made you give an actual argument. Thank you for participating in your own debate. If the viewing audience would take a close look at what my opponent has written down, you may notice the same thing I have. She has attached as a true value for coins not what the department of treasury denotes them, but rather their true worth is reflected in the cost it takes to make them. For a penny, normally worth 1.000 cents, she points out it cost 0.0126 cents to make it so making a penny is a net gain of 0.9874 cents. Then she goes on to tell us that it takes even less than that to make the coins that are worth more in the eyes of the department of treasury. Ergo even greater net gain. Perhaps the source she gave actually conveys something different, that the net gain in making a dime is less than the net gain you make in making a penny, but since my opponent clearly failed to articulate that and by some accident articulated the opposite meaning, she should lose this debate. Plus my opponent has completely ignored my case that I have been making every single round that money only has the value it does under certain conditions. When disaster strikes your area candles, flashlights, generators, fresh bottled water and guns become worth there wait in gold. When everything hits the fans and we are forced to find what any worth there is in these two coins you see that because dimes are more sturdy and harder, it takes less to fill a bag full of coins that you can hit people with like a club to defend yourself. My opponent has also never addressed my point that you cant pay the cashier with .0126 cents, they will laugh at you when you try. You have to save all your .0126 cents until you have enough to make a hole cent that you can exchange them for, because a completely made penny is the lowest value that any commercial vendor will accept. Since you cannot lose lower than one cent values they virtually have no value until they become a whole cent, and once a whole coin the dime clearly stands out over the penny. Plus, my opponent did not specify we refer to only dimes made recently with FDR on them. We must be talking about all dimes and pennies. The best penny that is worth the most would be made with real copper, but the best dime would be made with real silver. Melted down the dime is worth more, cause silver is worth more than copper. http://www.bellbookandcandle.biz... So lets refresh my four argument. 1) my opponent conveyed her argument so poorly that if you didn't read her source you would be convinced dimes are worth more. 2) When people stop valuing money dimes serve better as make shift club than pennies 3) People only accept whole cents now a day's, so the denoted value on the coin is all that we care about or believe in. 4) My opponent has obviously been referring to her penny that she pulled out of her pocket, it was minted last year its not worth much, and the dime in question is obviously supposed to be mine and mine is a factory mint condition silver dime that predates the FDR dime. It's worth way more than a 10 cents now. And very much more than her penny. I don't owe my opponent cheetos, but I believe you owe me your 2-cents. I hear there worth more than dimes these day's! ;) Vote for Vader (he was framed)	CON	55
55	Sf3328136-Ae97cd051	Free tuition for college students through government taxation should be supported.	"""While my opponent wastes valuable time disputing that the cost of college is one of the most expensive things people will ever ""buy,"" I'd just like to point out that of the people that have a college education, that education cost vastly more money than any other thing they will ever buy."" -Seeing that the average cost of tuition for a public college in the US (over four years) was approximately $22,000 in the '05-'06 school year, I believe that this point stands, even allowing for the latest increases, as most cars easily cost more than this. Now, in the same year, the cost of tuition over four years at a private college was about $85,000, in which case my opponent would be right; however, based on this, the ""average"" person does not attend a private college. Were I to add the lower tuition costs of two-year colleges or other institutions, which greatly outnumber private and public four-year colleges, the average cost of tuition would drop even more. ""While the restrictions I speak of do not necessarily follow the resolution to the letter, I'd also like to point out that we've been given a terrible resolution for implementation in the United States..."" -Irrelevant. ""If they're not receiving the benefit of the tax, why should they pay it?"" -Precisely. ""Everyone pays social security tax, yet many people don't use it. We all pay taxes used to provide welfare, yet most of us don't use it."" -1)Incorrect. If you work for most of your life and then retire, no matter what your income, you are entitled to a retirement check. True, you may not need it, but you get it. 2)Your second sentence here is true; however, welfare provides necessities to the underprivileged, whereas college attendance is a luxury in comparison. And while welfare may be necessary, it is still unfair for the same reasons I spoke of in Round 1. ""Food stamps do not pay for persons to buy fillet mingion every night. As with that program, this resolution should provide a basis for education."" -You are comparing apples to oranges again. Even then, incorrectly: food stamps do not provide a ""basis"" for buying food - for many on food stamps, that is all they have for food, period. Also, a ""basis"" for education can be better provided by private loans, which are readily available. If you are smart enough to be accepted to a university, you can get loans for tuition, leaving the government out completely (unless it is a government loan, which is fine - it is not ""free,"" it has to be repaid.) ""Why? Not all college students ARE equal."" -But by law they are equal in the eyes of the government. ""Why should the 4.0 student receive the same benefit as the 0.8 student?"" -They shouldn't, wouldn't, and don't. I doubt the 0.8 student will be attending college at all. A non-issue. ""It makes the point that this program *can* easily be adapted to suit individual needs, not that the program is fallacious."" -I reached the opposite conclusion from the example I gave. ""It is a fact that persons with a college education make more money (on average) than those that do not. When people make more money, they pay more taxes. It's pretty clear that there is a relation between education and tax income for the country."" -Excellent, MORE taxes. This sounds like more of a benefit to the federal government than to any individual. So your point here is that it would be worthwhile to the government. ""It would seem self evident that when a (successful) investment is made in education that literacy and competency rates in a country would rise."" -Perhaps. However, going to college does not teach one to be ""literate"" or ""competent."" Literacy is taught long before that point, and competence is an independent quality completely - arguably something that cannot be taught, no matter who is teaching or for how much money they are teaching for. ""Foreign governments outspend the US on education, an the US finished LAST in the most recent international physics olympiad."" -I believe this has more to do with the fact that the US has accepted and enjoyed its hegemony over the past years than anything else: other countries outspend the US as they are trying to rise in the international community, whereas one might say the US has more of a ""We're already there"" kind of attitude. Also, the physics Olympiad is a competition between high school students. Relevance to issue at hand: none. ""Those are American philosophies, and you admitted in the previous sentence that this resolution did not deal with the United States exclusively. Therefore, introducing American philosophy is fallacious and irrelevant to the argument writ large."" -Indeed those are American philosophies. However, they are relevant as regards the non-socialist views and policies of the US government and a probable majority of Americans. Also, by the same token, we might call socialism a ""European philosophy,"" thereby extinguishing any points you had about the education systems of Europe (you mentioned the UK and Spain specifically.) ""...[I]f they grow proportionally and maintain the ratios between students, classes, and professors, the quality will not change."" -Another big ""if."" ""Actually, that would be quite welcome... I merely meant the American workforce."" -Joking aside, you are still incorrect. The overall quality may be affected, but in terms of quantity, there are only so many jobs to go around, even to college graduates. The slots will be filled, and then we will have a large number of unemployed or underemployed overqualified college graduates. ""I see - therefore, according to you, the Chinese, Brits, Spainards[sic], Poles, etc... must all be more intelligent than Americans. It has nothing at all to do with their education system and the fact that their college students are of higher caliber on average."" -This was not my point. If more people go to school, then by definition more people are ""educated."" However, you seem to be confirming the argument you accused me of making with your second sentence. If their college students are of ""higher caliber on average,"" then it logically follows that either they are smarter, or that their primary and secondary schools are better than those in the US. This point about primary and secondary schools can be applied to your point about the physics Olympiad. ""The very nature of politics is that there are ALWAYS going to be winners and losers."" -True. But education is not politics. ""Are not the losers in the current system those who cannot afford to go to college at all?"" -Perhaps; that does not mean that I or anyone else necessarily want to pay for them. A very small monthly savings through a child's life until they go to college can pay for a lot, if done correctly. It should not be the burden of society at large that a person's parents or guardians do not have the foresight to provide for a college education. ""Why should they be denied a college education in the same country where a high school education is free?"" -I cannot speak on behalf of the hypocrisy of the US government. ""Is their education devalued? I'd say not. Our Chinese foreign exchange students at my college spend about 3 or 4 times as long studying for classes as American students because they view their education as so important."" -They are happy to have the chance to do such things, whereas the US has ""had it made"" for such a long time that education is simply seen as another service, and if implemented here, it would devalue education - just another government freebie. ""Indeed, please do. Education in The Republic is the responsibility of the state."" -Pay no mind. Argument from authority or another ""European philosophy."" Besides being unfair (not new but true), implementation would be a nightmare, as PRO admits. On top of that, college costs rise between 5 and 10 percent each year, meaning annual tax +"	CON	56
56	S738233f8-A41dc0d3a	Should All students after 2035 be required go to college by the law	As he is the instigator, it is worth reminding him he has the burden of proof. My job is to refute his statements, and in doing so form an argument. ==Rebuttal== My opponent has two main argument thus far: 1) College is expensive. 2) Students do not want to go to college. 1) ' Unless the Government is paying for every student to go to the college they want' This is the basic rebuttal of your first argument. If the government pays for college, or at least pays for those who cannot afford it, anyone can go to college without the burden of cost. 2) ' also the government should not be in charge of what teens decide to do with there lives. ' There is a difference between government suppression and the good of the people. If a society was suppressed by government, they would make everyone do a test, and that test determined you're career for life. In a system where a student must do college, it leaves open more doors than it closes. The student has complete choice over what course they do. Also, my opponent has not mentioned that the student most do a full course. They are required to go to college. Because their is an indefinite time frame stated in the resolution, a student could go to college for one day, and would have abided by the law. My opponent has not reserved any room to change the definition of the resolution, so it should be taken that there is no definitive time frame, so one day would be sufficient, meaning it is in no way suppressive. == Summary== As you can see, I have refuted all my opponents points. Under a free education system up to college, and there being an indefinite time length of college that must be done, All students after 2035 be required go to college by the law. I await my opponent to respond, and so far urge a PRO vote.	PRO	57
57	S16199f60-Af43dd777	Ending Education Subsidies	"C1: Human Capital? The idea behind subsidizing education is that since education improves human capital (makes people more productive), subsidies will pay for themselves. We’ve all heard the statistic that college graduates earn $1 million more over their lifetimes than non-graduates. But is that income differential caused by the education? It’s hard to believe the knowledge learned at college directly translates into higher productivity—very little learned in school has anything to do with real world work. Some things learned in school obviously translate into higher productivity—basic literacy, numeracy, and computer skills, for example. But it’s hard to believe that anyone uses the skills they learned in a Sociology class in their job. College isn’t completely useless of course, but the majority of classes have no application in the real world. Ah, but educators usually don’t claim that the stuff they teach will ever be used in the “real world.” They’re supposedly teaching you how to think—by learning math and literature, you’ll be better at learning other, work-related things, and therefore be more productive. It turns out educational psychologists have tried to test and measure this theory—the literature on the subject is called ‘transfer of learning theory.’ And they found that your teachers were wrong, and that learning is highly specific. There is specific transfer of learning—learning algebra will help you learn calculus. But there is no empirical evidence of general transfer of learning—learning calculus won’t help you be more productive at a job that has nothing to do with math. [1] Studies on this subject date back to E.L. Thorndike’s 1901 study, where ""Subjects estimated the area of rectangles between 10 and 100 sq cm...After sufficient practice to produce improvement (1,000 to 2,000 trials) on the original series, subjects got two test series. The first test series consisted of rectangles between 20 and 90 sq cm not included in the original training series. The second test series consisted of shapes other than rectangles, like triangles and circles. On the second test series, errors after training were about 90% as large as errors before training. Thorndike and Woodworth concluded that there was practically no improvement on the general skill level of judging the area of figures."" [1] In addition, “Since the classic Thorndike and Woodworth (1901) experiment, there have been literally hundreds, if not thousands, of experiments reaffirming the same point.” [1] A review of these studies from Thorndike to the present found that while there was evidence of ‘near’ transfer (specific transfer, like algebra helping with calculus), ""there has been no positive evidence of general transfer besides a few highly questionable studies."" [2] C2: Signalling But then why do college graduates earn more than non-graduates? Part of the reason is that college graduates were already more productive than non-graduates before they went to college. People that go to college tend to be smarter and harder-working than those that don’t—so they would probably earn more even if there was no such thing as college. But that can’t be the whole answer. If it was, smart kids could skip college and expect to earn just as much as if they went. That might be the case for a few exceptional people—Bill Gates, Steve Jobs, etc, but for most people, it likely isn’t true. The other part of the answer is that a degree is a signal. It signals traits that employers value—intelligence, conscientiousness, and conformity. Someone without a degree could have those traits, and someone with a degree could lack them, but on average, people with degrees are smart, conscientious, conformists—people who will be good workers. If employers require a college degree for a job, they will get applicants who are, on average, better workers, and will be less likely to have wasted money hiring someone who turns out to be a bad worker. If this is true, then the case for subsidizing education falls apart. Improvements in human capital have social benefits, but signaling doesn’t. Signaling benefits the person with the signal at the expense of everyone else competing for that job—it doesn’t benefit society overall. The billions spent subsidizing education are thus wasted—in addition to the opportunity costs of the students going to college when they could have been doing productive work instead. C3: Useful Education While I think most of school is socially useless signaling, obviously some education is actually useful. Medical schools teach the skills necessary to be a doctor, for example. But that doesn’t mean these things should be subsidized. If something is actually useful, then it doesn’t need to be subsidized—the monetary return on getting that degree is enough. People that can’t afford medical school can take out loans and pay them back with the higher income medical school will help them get. People that can’t afford to get Sociology degrees probably won’t get loans without the government being involved, since private lenders would be unwilling to lend to someone who couldn’t pay them back. [1] Detterman, D.K. (1993) 'The case for the prosecution: transfer as an epiphenomenon', in D.K. Detterman and R.J. Sternberg (eds) Transfer on Trial: Intelligence, Cognition, and Instruction, Norwood, NJ: Alex Publishing Corporation. http://cms.educ.ttu.edu... [2] Singley, M.K., & Anderson, J.R. (1989). The Transfer of cognitive skill. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press."	PRO	58
58	S30a568aa-A3f20a7f9	Public vs Private Education	Private education is a better education. It offers the tools to success. People do not just put their kids into this form of education so they can spend more money, it is for the benefits. It gives the students different ways to be educated that public schools cannot offer. Public may be more economically beneficial but it certainly does not offer a better education. Getting into secondary school (college) is hard enough these days and being educated through a private system puts your name at the tope of the list. That is not just because of the name it is widely known that people come out with a better education from these top institutions.	CON	59
59	Sf3328136-A5658001b	Free tuition for college students through government taxation should be supported.	"My arguments stand in opposition to the resolution ""Free tuition for college students through government taxation should be supported."" My opponent opens with ""College tuition is one of the most expensive expenditures any person or family faces. In fact, after possibly a house, it is the most expensive thing any person will ""buy."""" While college may indeed be one of the *more* expensive purchases a person or family might makes, it seems a tad broad and inaccurate to state, as a fact, that college is the *most* expensive thing *any* person will buy, qualified only with ""after possibly a house."" This is totally dependent on what person we are talking about, and in turn that person's (or that person's family's) financial standing. These days, depending on who we are talking about, the cost of college can easily pale in comparison to such things as cars, real estate (not a house), market investments, political influence, prostitutes, and watches. I am not denying the expense of college, only saying that we cannot afford to reach such unsound conclusions, or take any statement given as fact to actually be fact without further exploration of the topic at hand. After this statement, my opponent goes on to say, ""However, it should be the case that the government provide students extra funding drawn from tax dollars. There should of course be restrictions placed on this - there is no reason tax dollars should be given to millionaires' children or for people to attend outrageously priced institutions."" JCMTarzan wants the government to provide, through taxation of course, free tuition. Of course, as with any social program, and government-provided free tuition is that if nothing else, this would be massively unfair, especially in light of the restrictions that JCMTarzan proposes: no money should go to millionaires' children, or toward the attendance of ""outrageously"" priced colleges (Ivy League schools.) On the one hand, the currently wealthy should handle the majority of the tax burden (as they already do, not just in the US but everywhere) but their children should be disqualified from benefiting from their family's ""investment in the future."" Not a very equitable investment on a personal level, and I think most would agree with me. On the other hand, this is an argument for my position: the resolution speaks of no restrictions - it only says ""college students,"" which I take to mean all college students, that is, college students in general. My opponent cannot pick and choose which students will benefit and which will not; if JCMTarzan's view is in fact this which he writes, then he is not truly ""For"" the topic resolution. If free tuition through taxation were to be a reality, then all college students should be able to benefit equally. As for his restriction on possibly over-priced schools, a thought experiment will serve my purposes: You are high school senior living in Massachusetts, and you have applied to Boston University, the University of Mass., and, although it is possible but unlikely that you are accepted, to Harvard, Cambridge, and MIT. Your family is of average economic standing - if you were accepted it would not be on account of any ""legacy""-type tradition, or even on scholarship, as you are not THAT smart, but smart enough to have a chance. Free tuition from the government is in effect. Amazingly, you are accepted. The chance of a lifetime has been dropped in your lap. As you do not have a scholarship or other means to pay tuition, you must rely on the government's program. Unfortunately, per the restrictions assumed by JCMTarzan, the Dept. of Education calls you up and tells you that you cannot attend because it is too expensive. The program didn't really work in your case, did it? A highly specific example, but it makes the point. ""There are two main reasons tax dollars should be used in this way: It constitutes and investment in the future, and it will increase the base of educated people."" First, is not every investment an investment in (or for) the future? Unfortunately, some investments have a good return and some have a bad return. Anyone who has ever bought a stock knows this well. An investment, in simplest terms, is nothing more than a gamble at best: ask the stockholders of Bear-Stearns. There is no guarantee that such a huge investment, which could only happen by way of taxes increasing, as my opponent admits, would prove to be worthwhile. Second, an increase in the base of educated people is not necessarily a good thing. More on that in a moment. ""There is a definite correlation between the investment in education and the literacy rates and success of a country."" -What might this correlation be? ""Consider that in the UK..."" and ""In Spain..."" -I understand and agree that the resolution is not aimed specifically at the US. However, this is simply socialism (as my opponent also admits), or many people getting a free ride at the hands of the few on the education bus. Whatever happened to self-made men (or women), self-reliance, and self-responsibility? The primary problem with socialism is that once you are getting the ""free ride,"" as it were, that many, many people do not want to get off. Shall the government in turn provide graduates of their free-tuition system with jobs if they are unable to find one themselves? Why not: they got them into college in the first place. ""The payment of tuition from tax dollars constitutes this incentive. If institutions of higher education maintain the same enrollment rates, but have ""free"" tuition, the applicant pool will be both larger AND of a higher caliber because you'll be getting students who otherwise could not afford to go to college actually applying."" -First, that is a big ""if."" If free tuition were enacted, there would be so many applicants that schools could not help but increase their enrollment rates: who wants to pass all of that money by? Unless new entrance standards were introduced along with free tuition, this seems inevitable. If you have X GPA, X ACT or SAT scores, and other current standard qualifications, as many who do not go to college on account of the expense do, then all of these people would have to be accepted somewhere if they chose to go at all: they would have overcome their only stumbling block (money), so what else would stop them? I agree that the applicant pool will be larger; of higher calibre I am not so certain: the more applicants there are, the lower their average calibre would be. That's a simple law of statistics. More students, larger classes, etc, less quality of services rendered (education). ""Institutions can take the best of the pool and increase both the size and quality of the American Populace."" -Universities now have breeding programs in line with Social Darwinism? A shock, to say the least ;) ""However, cases show that the education rates of other countries that DO practice this are higher than that of the United States. Coincidence?"" -OBVIOUSLY not. If more people go to school, then more are educated. Of course, educated is not synonymous with intelligent, hard-working, or even contributory in any way to the overall well-being of society. JCMTarzan urges the reader to support this idea, but I ask you not to, for it is a socially onerous but politically expedient idea. NOTHING is free. Someone somewhere is getting the raw end of the deal - paying the taxes but not having children, paying the taxes while having children but not seeing them benefit because of good economic status, etc. Other societies do as they like, sure, but in providing ""free"" tuition do they not devalue the education that is sought? Whatever is worth having is worth earning, worth working for, sacrificing for; do we not appreciate what we have worked hard for more than what is simply ""given"" to us (while at the same time being taken from others)? Reread ""The Republic,"" and side CON."	CON	60
60	S4ef7a9a4-A457e3192	Parents should be required to pay for their offsprings's college education.	What if the parents don't care you go to college or not? It's good for you, not necessarily good for them. They can refuse to pay due to they don't want their products in a better market.Period.	CON	61
61	S16199f60-Af51225c1	Ending Education Subsidies	"Overview I thank my opponent for accepting. I have 3 opening contentions to make which I listed below. If the contentions are true, then the conclusion is true as well. After that, I will refute my opponent's round 1 arguments. 1) College is absolutely required for the vast majority of people who want to be successful. 2) The majority of people cannot afford to attend college unless subsidized loans are given. 3) Unsubsidized loans do not fill this need. Conclusion: Therefore, subsidies are required. OPENING CONTENTIONS C1) College is required for success It is a well-known fact that college graduates earn a lot more money than high-school graduates. According to the U.S. Census Bereau, high school graduates make approximately $28,000 a year while college graduates make approximately $51,000 a year, nearly twice as much [3]. There are of course exceptions but for the vast majority of people, going to college has a positive effect on their earnings potential. Now, the ideal scenario in this case would be for everyone to go to college since for the majority, college is required in order to be successful. C2) College is unaffordable to the majority of students According to the US Department of Education, 2/3 of undergraduate students recieved financial aid [4]. This shows that the majority of students cannot afford the cost of college and require loans and financial aid in order to attend college. A student who just graduated from high-school will barely have enough money to afford college. Therefore, they must seek it from elsewhere. The options they have would be to either get federal aid, or have their parents finance their education. Most American families are unable to afford the huge amount of money required for college. According to the College board, it costs $105,000 for a 4 year degree in a private university and $7020 in a public university [5]. However, this is just the tuition fees. Students often have other living expenses. For instance, the total cost of 1 year at UC Berkeley is $32,000 if you live in a residence hall [6] or $120,000 for 4 years with all expenses included. Such staggering amounts are difficult to procure without subsidies. C3) Unsubsidized loans do not fill the need The primary problem with unsubsidized loans is that they charge interest from the time the money is first disbursed until it is paid in full. The interest is capitalized, meaning that you pay interest on any interest that has already accrued. One way to minimize how much interest accrues is to pay the interest as it accumulates [7]. Now a full-time college student cannot afford to pay interest on their loans since they will be busy with class and have living expenses, the need to buy textbooks, etc. With an unsubsidized loan, they are paying interest on money right from the minute they get the loan. If they do not immediately get a job right after graduating, it will snowball into a huge amount of money that is difficult to pay off. This severely discourages students from going to college. Since college is highly beneficial, it must be encouraged and the government must do what it can to increase the number of students going to college. This can be achieved by subsidizing education. Conclusion: Subsidies are needed. REBUTTALS R1) Human Capital Pro's argument here is that the knowledge learned in college does not translate to higher productivity. He specifically singles out Sociology as an example but I am assuming he is talking about Humanities in general. In any case, let's go with Sociology. Sociology is the study of people and how we interact with each other [1]. A degree in sociology helps students have a better understanding of human relationships. This helps them in a wide variety of careers that involve social interaction such as social workers, community affairs workers, consellors, and teachers [2]. My opponent cites studies to show that learning is highly specific. He claims that the studies show that learning algebra won't help you at a job that has nothing to do with Math. In essence, my opponent is arguing against general education requirements. The key here is that general education (breadth) requirements exist to give students knowledge of the topics at hand as opposed to prepare them to work in that particular field. A college student taking a sociology degree might have to take a math class. While his Sociology class might help at a future job, the Math class might not. However, breadth classes often have skills that are basic enough that they can be applied across various fields. Students also have a lot of choice in which classes they want to take. Pro's studies show that skills aren't transferable. But he is operating under the assumption that colleges claim that teach people how to think. Since I haven't made that argument and am arguing instead that classes in a student's major are actually useful, the studies have limited value. Pro's studies are pre-emptive to arguments that I did not make and are therefore irrelevant. R2) Signalling Pro says that the reason college graduates earn more is that college is a signal, and it signals that the graduate has qualities that the employer is looking for. Of course I won't argue with the point that a college degree is a signal. My argument is that college is not just a signal, but much more that that; because it offers many other skills that can be used in the real world such as the ones I mentioned in R1 regarding sociology. My opponent says that people that go to college tend to be smarter and harder-working than those that don’t. However, he offers no evidence to prove this point. It is just as likely that people who go to college are smarter and harder working because they go to college and have learned to take on the load of a college degree, participate in extra-curicular activities, and meet deadlines. R3) Useful Education Pro says that degrees that are useful need not be subsidized. However, there are many degrees like Sociology which are useful and pay a lot more than what high school grads are paid but may not be enough to cover the cost of unsubsidized loans. Pro divides the categories into ""useful"" and ""not useful"" but it is not a dichotomy. There is a wide range of usefullness to a college degree, from just a little more financially beneficial than high school to many times as much depending on the degree, and the student in question. So, a sociology major might earn a lot more by going to college but it may not be enough to cover unsubsidized loans. Sources [1] http://sociology.uoregon.edu... [2] http://www.soc.cornell.edu... [3] http://howtoedu.org... [4] http://nces.ed.gov... [5] http://www.collegesurfing.com... [6] http://students.berkeley.edu... [7] http://www.csus.edu..."	CON	62
62	S1901e6ad-A4cc5cd00	The Electoral College	"Case in favor of the electoral college: 1. Your vote counts more with the electoral college. In a general election, your vote is worth 1 in 320million. With the electoral college, your vote counts almost 1.5 times as much when divided amongst the states. http://www.sciencebuzz.org... 2. The Electoral College stops costly recounts. The election of 1960, with the popular vote won by Kenney by 2/10 of 1%, was actually won by over 90 electoral votes, stopping the possibility of a costly and lengthy recount of all 68 million votes cast. http://www.sciencebuzz.org... 3. The Electoral College forces candidates to not ignore the rural parts of states. They can't focus simply on big cities because whole states need to be won in the system. This legitimizes the election. 4. The Electoral College forces candidates to not ignore minorities. http://www.sciencebuzz.org... 5. The Electoral College has created a two party system which has simplified American democracy, thereby forcing parties to appeal to a wider range of voters. http://www.sciencebuzz.org... 6. Certainty of Outcome A dispute over the outcome of an Electoral College vote is possible""it happened in 2000""but it""s less likely than a dispute over the popular vote. The reason is that the winning candidate""s share of the Electoral College invariably exceeds his share of the popular vote. In last week""s election, for example, Obama received 61.7 percent of the electoral vote compared to only 51.3 percent of the popular votes cast for him and Romney. (I ignore the scattering of votes not counted for either candidate.) Because almost all states award electoral votes on a winner-take-all basis, even a very slight plurality in a state creates a landslide electoral-vote victory in that state. A tie in the nationwide electoral vote is possible because the total number of votes""538""is an even number, but it is highly unlikely.* Of course a tie in the number of popular votes in a national election in which tens of millions of votes are cast is even more unlikely. But if the difference in the popular vote is small, then if the winner of the popular vote were deemed the winner of the presidential election, candidates would have an incentive to seek a recount in any state (plus the District of Columbia) in which they thought the recount would give them more additional votes than their opponent. The lawyers would go to work in state after state to have the votes recounted, and the result would be debilitating uncertainty, delay, and conflict""look at the turmoil that a dispute limited to one state, Florida, engendered in 2000.* 7. Everyone""s President The Electoral College requires a presidential candidate to have transregional appeal. No region (South, Northeast, etc.) has enough electoral votes to elect a president. So a solid regional favorite, such as Romney was in the South, has no incentive to campaign heavily in those states, for he gains no electoral votes by increasing his plurality in states that he knows he will win. This is a desirable result because a candidate with only regional appeal is unlikely to be a successful president. The residents of the other regions are likely to feel disfranchised""to feel that their votes do not count, that the new president will have no regard for their interests, that he really isn""t their president. 8. Swing States The winner-take-all method of awarding electoral votes induces the candidates""as we saw in last week""s election""to focus their campaign efforts on the toss-up states; that follows directly from the candidates"" lack of inducement to campaign in states they are sure to win. Voters in toss-up states are more likely to pay close attention to the campaign""to really listen to the competing candidates""knowing that they are going to decide the election. They are likely to be the most thoughtful voters, on average (and for the further reason that they will have received the most information and attention from the candidates), and the most thoughtful voters should be the ones to decide the election. 9. Big States The Electoral College restores some of the weight in the political balance that large states (by population) lose by virtue of the mal-apportionment of the Senate decreed in the Constitution. This may seem paradoxical, given that electoral votes are weighted in favor of less populous states. Wyoming, the least populous state, contains only about one-sixth of 1 percent of the U.S. population, but its three electors (of whom two are awarded only because Wyoming has two senators like every other state) give it slightly more than one-half of 1 percent of total electoral votes. But winner-take-all makes a slight increase in the popular vote have a much bigger electoral-vote payoff in a large state than in a small one. The popular vote was very close in Florida; nevertheless Obama, who won that vote, got 29 electoral votes. A victory by the same margin in Wyoming would net the winner only 3 electoral votes. So, other things being equal, a large state gets more attention from presidential candidates in a campaign than a small states does. And since presidents and senators are often presidential candidates, large states are likely to get additional consideration in appropriations and appointments from presidents and senators before as well as during campaigns, offsetting to some extent the effects of the malapportioned Senate on the political influence of less populous states. 10. Avoid Run-Off Elections The Electoral College avoids the problem of elections in which no candidate receives a majority of the votes cast. For example, Nixon in 1968 and Clinton in 1992 both had only a 43 percent plurality of the popular votes, while winning a majority in the Electoral College (301 and 370 electoral votes, respectively). There is pressure for run-off elections when no candidate wins a majority of the votes cast; that pressure, which would greatly complicate the presidential election process, is reduced by the Electoral College, which invariably produces a clear winner. Against these reasons to retain the Electoral College the argument that it is undemocratic falls flat. No form of representative democracy, as distinct from direct democracy, is or aspires to be perfectly democratic. Certainly not our federal government. In the entire executive and judicial branches, only two officials are elected""the president and vice president. All the rest are appointed""federal Article III judges for life. It can be argued that the Electoral College method of selecting the president may turn off potential voters for a candidate who has no hope of carrying their state""Democrats in Texas, for example, or Republicans in California. Knowing their vote will have no effect, they have less incentive to pay attention to the campaign than they would have if the president were picked by popular vote, for then the state of a voter""s residence would be irrelevant to the weight of his vote. But of course no voter""s vote swings a national election, and in spite of that, about one-half the eligible American population did vote in last week""s election. Voters in presidential elections are people who want to express a political preference rather than people who think that a single vote may decide an election. Even in one-sided states, there are plenty of votes in favor of the candidate who is sure not to carry the state. So I doubt that the Electoral College has much of a turn-off effect. And if it does, that is outweighed by the reasons for retaining this seemingly archaic institution. The last 5 points come from http://www.slate.com... -- -- -- Overall, the Electoral College best upholds the ideals of the Federal America."	PRO	63
63	S2ea51f9-A5465e815	University education should be free	The framework of this debate had to be altered since PRO violated the rules that were set in the beginning of the debate. I have chosen to let this violation slide but now a change in framework has to be enforced to cope up with the new development. This debate now only has one round with 8k characters for each contestant[I had already stated this in the comments section]. Thus, PRO is prohibited from posting anything related to the debate in the upcoming round for fairness sake so that we both got only one round each. Also complying with the above I will not post any rebuttals in this round since my opponent didn’t have the opportunity to do so either, hence I request the judges who are evaluating this debate to vote by the strength of each other’s argument. I digress. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Clarification of the resolution: The resolution states that “University education should be free” so as CON in this debate I would win even if I manage to prove that University education need not be free or show that the disadvantages of having free higher education outweigh the advantages. And with that made clear I will move on to my arguments. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Insisting that universities should be made free and expecting such a system to be actually helpful, is a whim, that borders near fantasy. It’s not really effective or beneficial in practice and I will show this through my case, in this debate. A1.1) Offering such a service would be counter-productive: When a commodity is offered for free its value decreases. Offering degrees for free would result in losing the actual pre-eminence that would have been tied to them. And moreover enforcing such a system would result in the funding of students who are not really interested in attending university or who are apathetic towards higher education. These students would join college just because of the fact that it is free to do so. This is not favourable for two reasons: I) It would be a waste of the taxpayer’s money. II) They might disrupt/destroy the actual atmosphere for learning and make it difficult for other students who wish to learn something, to do so. A2) Cases where universities are not necessary: It has been found that about 36 percent of the total jobs don’t require a university degree and only need a school level education.[1] This fact per se partly establishes my case and objectively shortens my burden of proving that university need not be free. Now moving on, the government is obliged to provide and cater to fundamental rights to its citizens. As such there is no such thing as ‘the right to higher education’ it is not something that needs to be fulfilled. College education would require a lot of expenses to be met and would be unjustifiable to ask the taxpayers who might not even benefit from it, to take care of such expenses. Also getting a college degree isn’t the only means through which an individual can become employed, there are a variety of different ways like sports, agriculture, politics, business etc. that can make a person sufficiently self-sustained. There are also a plethora of people who have become successful in life and in their career without a university degree[4]. Thus, on a whole, university education is not really necessary. A3) The cost would be too expensive for the state to bear: Having a system that pays for all college education threatens to bankrupt the countries maintaining them; it is simply unsustainable. The cost of paying for free university education is ruinously high, for instance, the cost for studying at universities like MIT amount to more than $40,000,[2] and that is for a single student. This money has to come from somewhere and in a just society is it fair to ask the majority of general taxpayers [employed people] who don’t directly benefit from Higher Education to completely pay for those who did? It would be fair to say that all states should offer access to their citizens to primary and secondary education opportunities, since the skills acquired during such education can be argued as necessary for citizens to function effectively within society; reading, writing, basic civics, etc. are essential knowledge which the state is well-served in providing. University, on the other hand, is not essential to life in the same way. A4) The quality of education suffers when university education is free Without university fees, universities become dependent on the state for funding. Now what this does is, it makes the quality of these university become dependent on the political system of the given country. Ireland, where education has been free in all levels, has reportedly seen funding fall by 30 per cent in the past decade. A crisis looms, argue Dr Hugh Brady, President of University College Dublin, and Dr John Hegarty, Provost of Trinity College Dublin.[3] It isn’t far-fetched to assume that the possibility of the some state manipulating or decreasing funding for political gains is imminent. Also such a system would make the state tend to maximize attendance of students rather focus on the quality of education. Thus, because of this, the amount of money spend on a single student, decreases and classroom sizes would witness huge increases which would in turn deter proper communication between the students and the faculties. Addendum: Current system is better With the current system there are plenty of opportunities for talented students to get into good universities based on merit, this helps in maintaining the quality of education and also helping students financially, so again it is NOT necessary for all universities to be made free and shell out a large chunk of government money and resources for this. And with that I conclude my case. I have provided plenty of evidences as to why universities should not be free hence, necessarily the resolution has been negated. Vote CON. Sources: 1: https://www.google.co.in... 2: https://www.google.co.in... 3: http://www.ucd.ie... 4: http://elitedaily.com...	CON	64
64	S7239d5ee-A5c59d288	Education is perception of skills	"We are debating: Education is the perception of skills. Again, I describes perception as this: An active information process, which allows us to organise, interpret, and ultimately act upon sensory information coming to us from our outside world. You mentioned (as an example) that ""When I saw food, I perceived it to be tasty and ate it. If I see bitter gourd which I dislikes than I cannot eat it. It depends solely on perception."" If you perceive a food to be tasty and eat it, that is your choice. You choose to interpret the food and use it in your everyday life, as you would as education. Even if the food is ""bitter gourd"" that does not mean you are enable to eat it, it simply means you are not choosing to accept the food (education) that your mother is ""serving you beautifully with her own hands."" ""but ultimately I have to chew it, engulf it and digest it."" you do not have to chew this *gourd.* you are choosing to. as with education you choose to perceive it. We are all not provided with education. whom are you referring to as this all and what kind of world do you live in? all of us don't have the privilege on education. so you say we are provided with education and it is up to us weather we chew it or no. but then you say if u see bitter gourd (what do you mean by bitter gourd? is that supposed to be the ""bad education"" that some people receive?) you cannot eat it? this makes no since to me and does not contribute a cent to education is the perception of skills, I will now go on. how much something is worth depends on if we can interpret it. just because we interpret something doesn't mean we know how much its worth. we could throw out our old diary or journal doesn't mean that we know it wont turn into Ann Franks diary. Famous and known. all we are is human. we don't know the paths, and we always don't know what we are talking about. ""Thus quality depends on perception; quality begins with perception""is probably just an opinion, either way I gave you mine in the above paragraph. (transcend-to be superior prejudices-unfavorable opinion or feeling formed beforehand or without knowledge, thought, or reason"	PRO	65
65	S474849b5-Afd9e2e0a	Electoral College	"I would like to thank my opponent for challenging me to this debate. Since my opponent wants me to ""present my case"", my first argument will be in this round. To be fair to my opponent, I will skip the last round to keep equal debating rounds. If I am wrong, please tell me. I. Unequal Attention to Swing States ""They [candidates] spend time in large ""swing states,"" or states where the outcome is uncertain. Almost all small states are ignored.""[1] Why? Because smaller states have fewer delegates. In addition, it is easier to sway swing states than it is in one-party states. Swing states will define a presidential election. ""Due to the unit rule, competitive big states have far more electoral votes in play, meaning that a shift of 1,000 votes in a big state can result in a far greater gain in electoral votes than a comparable swing of 1,000 votes in a small state.""[2] If California and Wyoming are swing states, California will be worth 18 times more, ergo they campaign in California, and never Wyoming. So even if small states are swing states, they still won't be visited. ""Of the 18 states with the smallest populations, 10 experienced absolutely no television ads or candidate visits with public events during the peak season of 2008 campaigns. Eleven of the 12 smallest states did not have a single campaign visit.""[2] As shown, smaller states receive little, if any attention. II. A Minority-Vote President ""The Electoral College system can result in the election of a ""minority"" president who has received fewer popular votes than a principal opponent but more electoral college votes. The Electoral College system has in the past led to the election of three ""minority"" presidents, namely, National Republican John Quincy Adams in 1824, Republican Rutherford B. Hayes in 1876, and Republican Benjamin Harrison in 1888.""[3] The Electoral College can elect a popular-minority president. Simple math can be used to show how if necessary. ï¿½""'If 60,000 votes had switched from Bush to [Sen. John] Kerry in Ohio, Kerry would have won the election, even though Bush would have had a majority of the vote,' by 2.5 million votes.""[1] There have also been several close calls. That's a 2.5 million people swing. That can really change the vote. Sources: [1]:http://www.christianpost.com... [2]:http://www.fairvote.org... [3]:http://www.elections.alaska.gov..."	CON	66
66	S16199f60-A238988c2	Ending Education Subsidies	Resolution: The US government (and state governments) should end all subsidies to college education. BOP is on Pro. 1st Round for acceptance.	PRO	67
67	S912e5771-A8f430595	college tuition too expensive	"Your statement saying that everyone should receive an equal opportunity to a adequate education is very true. However I believe the government and states are doing there best for what they got. Loans and other programs to get student to high end schools would just the nation in more debt. Again like before we as a nation are in debt and it would be a difficult task for the government to make it ""EASY"" for people to get the education they want. The government does have the lower class in their best interest seeing how the Pell grant program has not been cut, despite being one of the top contributors to our debt. The middle class are in a tough situation since it is hard for them to get the finical aid that the lower class gets. College tutition is too expensive but it is just a reflection upon the debt of the nation."	PRO	68
68	S1b21a2f2-A7caeebdd	Free University Education	"I did not know that my opponent would be focusing on the U.K. I agree with him that it is exceedingly difficult to find statistics that represent the world, and so, in light of my opponent's focus, before I move onto my broader argument, I would like to point out a few things that *are* true about college education in the U.K., particularly regarding how little people are actually able to afford college these days. - 3/4 of U.K. students will not be able to pay off their student loan debts. (1) - My opponent said that someone would typically end up paying about 27,000 pounds in student loans. However, this was under the old system, which was removed some time ago. Under the new system, the average is 44,035 pounds. (2) - ""While tuition at public universities in Japan is considerably less than American colleges and universities, tuition in the United Kingdom is more on par with that in the U.S.""(3) This doesn't sound terrible until you realize that U.S. college students are now over a trillion dollars in debt. (4, 5) That's right. Tra-tra-tra-trillion, people. That's more student loan debt than the amount of money possessed by most *countries,* and the U.K. is charging rates similar to this in a *smaller economy.* Less than a fifth the size of the U.S.'s, in fact.(5, 6) Either the government needs to force universities to stop charging such ridiculously high sums of money for education that is given for free in most developed countries, or they need to pay the money for their decision to allow universities to keep prices that high. ""'It is quite unfathomable for most Europeans that you would start your adult life tens of thousands of dollars in debt,' says Oberle, who researched higher education systems in countries such as the U.K., Hungary, Argentina and Turkmenistan for her book 'College Abroad.'""(3) Thus, my opponent's repeated claims that student loans are affordable, even in the heavily socialized U.K., are rendered invalid. Now I move on to a broader focus. My opponent insists, time and again, that college students will refuse to ever work low-paying jobs, when statistics clearly show that the number of college students working low-paying jobs has actually been increasing at an alarming rate. In the U.S. alone (I know what I said about using one country as a global representation, but my opponent and I seem to have come to an agreement on that XD) ""the number of college graduates working minimum wage jobs is nearly 71 percent higher than it was a decade ago, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics' latest figures. As of 2012, 284,000 college graduates were working at or below the minimum wage, up from 167,000 in 2002...""(7) My opponent makes a valid point regarding job experience vs college education, saying that employers often hire pepple who have job experience before they hire people with college degrees and no job experience. However, plenty of people with degrees have or have had jobs. Also, this preference for people with job experience is only present in certain fields. My opponent also points out that a degree only educates in a certain area. I would like to point out that people usually take more than one course in college, and that working at a single job gives a similarly narrow field of expertise. My opponent says that my points in the last paragraph of my last entry are correct, except that they advocate for free-schooling in general and not necessarily college. However, this is not the case, as I specifically mentioned college campuses, putting special emphasis on them being the centers of major cultural shifts such as the Civil Rights and Anti-War movements. A point that I would like to make is that the quality of life, as well as the happiness of the citizenry of countries wherein tertiary education is free or nearly free is higher than that of countries where it is expensive. People are more easily able to delegate their finances and not stress about the future when they don't have back-breaking student loans to pay off. I would also like to again stress the fact that education is not only to prepare us for work; it is also to make us better people. Martin Luther King Jr. said that ""the function of education is to teach one to think intensively and to think critically. Intelligence plus character - that is the goal of true education.""(8) We spend tax dollars on so much that is immoral and illogical today. We pay for drones that spy on and kill civilians and wars that benefit those who took the money from us in order to pay for them. These things are wrong, but we have a chance to get something right. We can pay just a bit more than we already are, even if it's only for the tuition, or even if it only lowers the coast, not removes it, and in exchange we'll get a brighter, more enlightened, more open-minded future. We don't even have to pay it, actually, as long as we're willing to tell those Harvardized schmucks that beating the little guy in the face with a baseball bat-sized pipe wrench and then emptying his pockets so that they can go pay a different little guy a nickel to shine their shoes is a total (insert nickname for Richard) move. Conclusion: I would like to once again thank my opponent for this intriguing experience. Prior to the debate, I hadn't really seen any compelling arguments for his case; however, he has definitely brought up points for me to ponder further, and I am grateful for the experience and broadening of my perspective. I remain unwavering, though, in my assertion that college education, or at least the tuition or room and board, if not both, should be free, or else the entire coast should be dramatically reduced. 1- http://www.independent.co.uk... 2- http://www.bbc.com... 3- http://www.usnews.com... 4- http://www.forbes.com... 5- http://www.usdebtclock.org... 6- http://www.nationaldebtclocks.org... 7- http://www.usnews.com... 8-http://www.brainyquote.com..."	PRO	69
69	Sa60e8842-A93cd0988	Education Reform	"Before any arguments are posed, let me identify the subject utilizing more clarity: As a child, I was disgusted with my education. Well renowned as an above-grade student, I found my education laughably impractical. Posing reforms in areas such as student authority, I found that the steadfast system was so bullheaded as to not budge an inch. Thirty years later, I actively participate in the education of my children (elementary and high school, and am finding it just as distastefully naive as a preparation for the modern world. The children are taught ""Life skills"" (respect, friendship, etc.), and are rewarded for their exhibition with tickets that can be used to purchase miscellaneous flotsam at a weekly stand. I run a corporation, and life skills aren't worth the oxygen in business. No, respect doesn't even earn you a smile. Ten years from now, my 9 year old son will will be introduced to the real world where generosity leads to bankruptcy. An unorthodox education, fostering more real world skills is required. Children are welcomed in this debate. If willing, please disclose your educational background."	PRO	70
70	Sf3328136-A41b78b88	Free tuition for college students through government taxation should be supported.	"""Try again.... using the same source you provided, the cost of public universities is $48,508 (4 x 12,127) and private is $116,104 (4 x 259,026) - your figures are for tuition only..."" -Yes; as the debate is about tuition alone, my figures are for tuition only. If you average the cost of 2-year colleges in as well, the figure will drop significantly. ""...however I did state that COLLEGE was..."" -I did not see this explicit statement. You may have implied it in what you wrote, but I did not infer it from what I read. In any case, only the cost of tuition is relevant, unless your Education Tax will cover board, books, and other fees of attendance as well, in which case your figures would be right but the whole of your position would suffer as this is simply MORE money to be paid in taxes. ""I pay social security tax... even if I do take the checks[,] there's simply not enough money in the budget to give me it back dollar for dollar."" -Excellent point. A great example of both government inefficiency and the ineffectiveness and unfairness involved in socialistic programs of this type. ""So you'd rather base college education on money you get, but have to pay back MORE later because of the interest, instead of money you pay gradually and don't have to pay back at all."" -Another way of saying what you said would be ""So you'd rather base college education on money you borrow, but have to pay back MORE later because of the interest, instead of money the government steals from the citizenry and just gives to you?"" Either way, my answer is: Precisely. That is the way things work in the real world, right? An excellent lesson in real-life financial responsibility for college students. ""Perhaps you're unfamiliar with Affirmative Action."" -I misspoke here - I should have qualified my statement with ""should be."" However, thank you for bringing up another example of government interference in personal matters that has worked out so well for everyone affected. ""More taxes = more money to put into the college tuition proposition."" -Ostensibly, perhaps. But does anyone really think that the government will simply use a fund this large for its actual purpose? In the end, more taxes = more money for the government to spend on whatever it feels necessary, no matter how much it hurts the initial purpose of what the money was for. ""Incorrect - consider - are you going to be competent at algebra if you've been taught for five minutes or for an entire semester? Obviously there's a relationship between input and competency, assuming the concept is understood."" -My point was that it doesn't matter in some cases how long they are taught or by whom - Newton could teach Mr. X calculus for 20 years, but if Mr. X is incompetent, trying to teach him the same thing over and over to no avail will not result in competency. ""Unless they magically change the caliber of their education over the summer, they remain relevant as an example of why our ENTIRE education system needs more monetary input."" -Throwing money at a problem is not a solution, unless your problem is a blackmailer. More money is surely needed in some areas, but it is not a fix to the core of the problem: disinterest and laziness. Thank you again: public primary and secondary school in the US is ""free,"" and look how well that is turning out in light of the points Tarzan brings out about China eclipsing the US for hegemonic supremacy. Let's make college the same way, and see if the long-run results are for the better or the worse. I believe it will be the latter. ""Well you've basically said that both philosophies are irrelevant when applied as belonging to a certain country."" -That would be the case by your logic is what I'm saying. I believe that the philosophical background of a country influences its policy pretty consistently, as is obviously the case here. You said ""American philosophy"" was irrelevant; I'm saying it is completely relevant as you cannot separate the cause from the effect. ""More educated people = more human capital = much greater propensity for businesses to arise. I believe there would be a huge economic growth if the number of educated and motivated persons was increased."" -Perhaps, but not if no one can afford to start a business or be in business because all of their money is going toward taxes to pay for the educational advancement of other people. ""...what's that say about our TERTIARY education systems?"" -Another good point. Alas, the problem is not the quality of college education nor the availability of funds for tuition - it is much deeper than that and starts long before college. Conclusion: free college tuition should not be supported as this is not the cause of our evidently mediocre-caliber high school graduates that then become low-caliber college students. ""...the negative connotation of hypocrisy indicates you believe college should be provided as well."" -You mistake my meaning. My point is the converse of what you inferred. ""Implementation isn't really the issue at hand either... As for the increase in tax, after a few years, this would balance out as there are more (higher) taxpayers and the cost of keeping an institution open decreases as enrollment goes up..."" -1)I would say implementation isn't the *primary* issue at hand, but is quite relevant: if you support the ""Free College Tuition Act"" (for example) then by definition you support its implementation, which in turn begs the question of overall feasibility: very low in this instance. 2)The cost of keeping an institution open will never decrease - it is not correlated to enrollment. There is a certain amount of money it takes to keep it open, and that does not change depending on enrollment. 3)As for ""the increase in income from one student vastly outweighs the added cost of him/her attending the institution."" If this were so, then every person would actually end up paying more to the government in taxes for the program than it actually cost them to go to school in the first place, so it turns out that the college education was not actually free, but instead a longtime tax burden. The private sector, for all its faults, would have been much better in the long run, as even though interest rates may be high, at least they can *eventually* be paid off. With this system, a person ends up paying for the education of others even if they did not benefit (attend college for free), and if they did benefit, they pay for their whole education and ALSO for the education of others. Most of my opponent's closing simply amounts to ""the ends (giving people a free college education with no guarantee of return) justify the means (stealing outrageous amounts from the citizenry)."" I think this is simply fallacious reasoning. ""Equality of outcome"" is a just a euphemism for ""FORCED equality of outcome,"" and as my opponent was so quick to point out about politics always having winners and losers, the same applies to all other aspects of life. Either way, it is not equality of outcome that society should be promoting. We all have equality of opportunity; beyond that, it is up to the individual - society at large is not at fault for their lack of taking that opportunity and cannot be held responsible. In the end, the major reasons for not supporting free tuition are 1)inherent unfairness, 2)feasibility of implementation, 3)potential (virtually guaranteed) inefficiency, 4)the unilateral expansion of federal power, and 5)it does not address the major problem in the equation of the US lagging behind educationally, as that seems to be Tarzan's de facto argument for implementation in the first place. If education in and of itself is not incentive enough for Americans, then the problem is indeed very deep, and throwing money (at what isn't even the problem) is only a superficial and cosmetic fix at best."	CON	71
71	S5d3f8690-Aaa2659b9	Curent high school education should not be mandatory	"I thank my opponent for this great debate. I will refute all of my opponent's points and conclude the basis of my main argument. Refutation of Pro Arguments ""It will free up economic resources."" No, I will disagree with this. High schools produce intelligent young adults that move on to college where they further continue their studies. These studies encourage them to perhaps create a new invention, one beneficial to society. What if the next economics major solves future economic crises? What if a government student creates international peace and peaceful relations between the US and the Middle East? This certainly could happen, and high school to college students have changed the world. You need to attend high school to attend college and future stars could be made. My opponent has cited that the jobs that require a high school diploma can take the GED to prove their worth. However, the General Education Development Test is for ages 18 and older [1]. And that is for a reason. Generally, 18 year olds are high school graduates. You require that specific knowledge to pass the test. Passing the test means that you will receive ""the California High School Equivalency Certificate."" According to my opponent's argument, why not just eliminate school entirely if it ""wastes"" taxpayers' money? Because school IS beneficial. For people's lives, job, and for society. Not only will society be helped, but it will also become more intelligent if people continue to high school. ""Most necessary information is taught through K-8."" I do deny this. Most necessary information is certainly not taught from kindergarten through the eighth grade. People cannot function properly with an eighth grade education. You think an eighth grader can live by himself? Can he get a job? Can he save money? No, that person needs to mature. Even if he is 50, he still has the mind of an eighth grader. What about college? My opponent seems to be denying that college is a very important factor in intelligence. Since we can certainly deny that through elementary school, you don't learn enough, we only have middle school to look at. In middle school you learn basic algebra, no advanced math, grammar, relatively brief history, not necessarily ""good"" writing, and other skills. High school takes all those subjects to the next step and increases intelligence and knowledge of the society. ""High school students who do not want to learn do the following: cause disruptions, do not listen, skip school and/or do not study."" So that means we don't allow them to get any better. We still need them to learn things. If they don't listen and disrupt things, then they're going to do that for the rest of their life. They can't get jobs or live by themselves. School also is an essential part to teach you about how you speak to people and how you should behave. Eighth graders are certainly not mature enough. We need to teach them that maturity so they can succeed in life, socially and educationally. ""High school teachers do not like these students. This is something that has been observed (Teachers complain constantly complain about them and for rational reasons). So here's what these teachers do, they quit."" I have never heard of a teacher quitting due to a pesky student. If the teacher really wants the job and is smart, she would keep it. It is very hard to get a job these days and that teacher is very lucky. My opponent has never cited a source for this claim and I highly doubt it is likely. ""Less students, means fewer teachers."" But, less students in class also means fewer teachers in the future. We need teachers to teach everybody, even if they are good or bad. To be a teacher, you need to pass certification requirements. It's not as easy as you think to be an official teacher. Most are required to have a bachelor's degree from college [2]. And the only way to get that is to go to high school and graduate. ""If there are fewer students that do not want a high school education, then high school teachers could get paid more, since less disruptive students would cut cost of education."" How does this make sense? Why do disruptive students cut the cost of education? My opponent has never explained this so this argument can be ignored. ""The actions described above have been observed in other countries."" My opponent has supported this claim by stating that college education is better in the US than high school because high school is mandatory and college is optional. Just because something is mandatory does not mean it is worse than an optional thing. For example, in China, middle school is mandatory. I am not sure about high school. But, this mandatory middle school education has been proven to be better than middle school education in the US. However, it is proven that the US has the best colleges, whereas Chinese education goes down. Both are optional. But different scenarios happen. Certainly, there must be a real reason. ""Mandatory high school education directly infringes on the freedom of others."" This point has already been shot down. By me and my opponent. ""Only because these things infringe upon other people's freedoms or harms others. Again education does neither."" Education does not infringe upon people's freedom or harm people, according to me AND my opponent. This point has been lost and should be ignored. ""It [high school] does not benefit everyone."" My opponent only focused on the money part of this. But high school makes everyone more intelligent and aware of society and our present day. ""Notice the occupation with the highest suicide. Not the janitor, but medical doctors, the highest educated and paid occupation."" This is due to stress. What's important about this? There are other less stressful jobs that require college degrees that make a good amount of money. ""If it benefits someone, he/she can enter voluntarily."" It's beneficial to everyone and lazy kids won't realize it. They'll just ditch school. We should keep it mandatory because it IS beneficial to their intelligence as I have proven. ""Also, CON believes that it is through high school education that you will discover subjects, learn to enjoy these subjects, and this will lead to a job. I reject the notation."" High school students choose which classes they take. If they get interested before, then they'll go farther. High school curriculum takes it farther and sparks interest in newer topics. ""One does not have to learn everything from school, because he or she can find help guides or do a web search for information he/she needs to know."" You can't learn everything from a ""help guide."" In school, you have real scenarios with real people. It's more effective. You learn how to function in society, take care of yourself, and you become informed of the real world. Main Argument/Conclusion High school is beneficial to EVERYONE. High school will teach all teenagers important material and how to live their lives. You can get only get jobs with a high school/college degree, not a middle school one. They will make money and live on their own comfortably. High school encourages people to go to college and thus, new technology can be developed by intelligent people. My opponent's argument that it will help the economy, improve high school education, main information is already taught, and that it will infringe upon freedom have been refuted. School teaches students how to behave in society and how to behave well to each other. High school is a critical and essential part of every student's career and life. For these reasons, high school should stay mandatory. Please vote PRO! Sources: 1. http://www.cde.ca.gov... 2. http://www.teacherscount.org..."	CON	72
72	Sb6d2bbc8-Ad0b335a6	The Electoral College Should Be Abolished	To many, the Electoral College is an aberration. The fact that the world's only superpower can decide its leader by a system that isn't the popular vote rubs many the wrong way, especially when the result can drag into controversy. Some reject the Electoral College entirely on that basis. However, the fact of the matter is the Electoral College serves a number of purposes, and it does a good job at them. What many people neglect is that the United States is fundamentally a nation of states - not a nation divided into numerous provinces. In creating the system to elect Presidents, the founders envisioned the states determining the President - the Constitution provides the states can decide how to allocate their electors, meaning each state has an incredible degree of ability to decide what to. Do as a matter of fact, it wasn't until 1832, the 12th Presidential election, when all states (except for South Carolina) determined their electors by some degree of popular vote.[1] By having the states determine the President and Vice President, candidates are forced to campaign country-wide. For example, take a look at the map from the 2000 election: George Bush won 30 states for 271 electoral votes, while Al Gore won 20 states plus the District of Columbia for 266 electoral votes (1 voter from D.C. abstained). Gore attracted little support from a broad swath of the country, most likely due to his reputation as a liberal, and in turn suffered despite a slim popular vote lead. George Bush, on the other hand, lacked support from highly urban states, as well as states with heavy amounts of union workers and large amounts of Democrats. This election gave a huge amount of power to states - 7 states, worth a collective 59 electoral votes, were within a 10,000 vote margin. Gore barely won the Democratic-leaning states of Oregon and Wisconsin, which Bush made a strong push for, while also winning in the swing states of Iowa and New Mexico, the latter by only 366 votes. Bush won the crucial swing state of Florida, in addition to pulling an upset in the politically moderate New Hampshire.[2] Bush won the election due to his focus on both New Hampshire and Florida, which also served to moderate his stance as a 'compassionate conservative'. In fact, both candidates ran as relative centrists - Gore as the center-left successor to the popular Bill Clinton. Many candidates have tried to pin the other as extremists - notably, Carter (unsucessfully) in 1980 and Obama (successfully) in 2012. This moderation effect also puts a great emphasis on the smaller states, while still respecting the power of the big states. Another major aspect of the electoral college is it both supports and prevents third party runs. Third parties gain an excellent chance for support with the electoral system, with some (like Ralph Nader) even swinging elections. Third parties may force an issue towards public awareness, such as Ross Perot's push for a balanced budget in 1992 and 1996. One unsung advantage of the electoral college is it presents a way to adapt to the death of a candidate. Rather than forcing another election, electors could push to elect the vice president or move the election to the House and Senate to decide. Finally, the electoral college allows states to decide who to elect without requiring a change to the Constitution. The National Popular Vote Interstate Compact is a major effort to change, and if it works it would ensure a popularly-elected President. That is the greatness of the system - it allows itself to change over time, rather than forcing a major national debate on the subject. References: 1. https://en.wikipedia.org...; 2. https://en.wikipedia.org... results	CON	73
73	Sf76890a8-Acf2f3cdd	Higher Education is outdated for the millennial generation	BOP lies with pro. First round for acceptance only. No new arguments in last round. Hey Capitalistslave! I'm so sorry but I set the debating character limit to 2000, incorrectly believing it would mean the limit was 2000 words without looking properly (I know its pretty dumb). Hence I'm restarting the debate with a 10 000 character limit. I hope that's ok with you! Also to clarify: Higher Education: education beyond secondary level/education provided by a college/university. Outdated: No longer current. https://www.merriam-webster.com... https://www.merriam-webster.com... Millennial generation: A person reaching young adulthood in the early 21st century. https://en.oxforddictionaries.com... Further clarification: When I say, higher education is outdated - I’m not talking about the experience of university, but rather the actual education that we receive from university itself. Hence arguments arguing that the friends that you make/parties you go to/clubs you join/connections you build is worthwhile etc. is irrelevant.	PRO	74
74	S1b21a2f2-A406bea63	Free University Education	"""But that is the reason we have student loans! If one gets a university place, they will almost certainly get a student loan. This means that there is no immediate financial barrier to going to university. No matter if someone is living in poverty, they will be able to go to university because of student loans. Therefore, the statement that free university education is needed to make it available and accessible to all is just not true."" ""No immediate financial barrier"" does not mean ""no financial barrier."" Many sensible people aren't going to throw themselves tens or hundreds of thousands of dollars in debt for college, and, due to these risks, won't go to college. If someone gave you a choice between getting one punch in the face, or some Tylenol and two punches in the face after you took it, you might very reasonably choose one punch in the face. The same principle applies. You may very well make up the money for the student loan eventually, but until that time it can be a very crippling long-term financial burden that can severely limit one's choices in life. Many people cannot take this risk, and so are therefore unable to go to college. Adding to this point, when risk is removed from the situation, people may be more bold in courses and careers that they choose to take, which could lead to the filling of high-demand jobs that require tertiary education, such as nurses or web designers. This gives back to society as a whole, further compounding on the reasons why this benefits the public and is worthy of tax dollars. My opponent continues to insist that people with degrees will refuse to work out of their degree area. I highly doubt, especially with the student loans that my opponent advocates, that graduates would rather sink into unemployment than, probably temporarily, get a disagreeable job. My opponent uses the U.K. as a representation of the world, even though it accounts for less than 1% of the world's population. My opponent's main point seems to be that we don't want more college students. As stated above, he uses numbers exclusively from the U.K. I could attempt to prove him incorrect within the U.K. specifically, but, as aforementioned, the U.K. is not representative of the world or even the West as a whole. Unless more applicable data is provided, I will assume that the provided data and the directly corresponding arguments are not valid. This allows me to move to more cerebral aspects of why we want more people in college than my opponent seems to think that there should be. For example, my opponent says that ""Furthermore, those who choose not to go to university are not necessarily less intelligent, educated or well-informed than those who do go to university, as real-world experience often develops wisdom in a more beneficial way than theoretical education does."" I absolutely, totally agree with this point. However, this entire claim is completely dependent on the word ""necessarily."" Of course people can educate themselves to a level equal to or even higher than that of college education. However, this is not by any means the norm, especially outside of isolated fields. If people normally educated themselves more than schooling did, there would be no schooling. ""If a graduate doesn't take a graduate job, then the ""27000 cost of a university course is essentially wasted."" Even if college had no career benefits (it does, this is hypothetical) it has benefits outside of careers. People who go to college are exposed to more viewpoints and people and ideas than are most other people, and are given the skills to think critically. Reasons such as these are why people are taught seemingly inapplicable subjects in school such as history and art and philosophy and literature: they make us better people. Going to school is not all about getting a job. It is a big part of it, yes, but not the whole thing. A citizen going to vote who has been educated on history and consequences will be able to make a better decision than someone who hasn't been. Someone who has discussed altruism in a classroom setting may be more charitable than others. Someone who has been educated in art could make someone's day by articulately comparing their visage to Nascita di Venere. Someone who has read The Catcher in the Rye may have the drive to reach out to an antisocial or depressed person and help them. Education helps us in the business world, certainly, but it does so, so much more for us. The Civil Rights Movement, anti-war movements, and other vehicles of social progression all have their roots on college campuses. Tax dollars pay for things that are much more ridiculous than this. We could raise taxes just a little and provide not only equal career opportunity for all, but make people to be better. They might not get this chance otherwise, due to the heavy financial burden that they would undertake in doing so. To quote the French philosopher Emmanuel Jaffelin, ""Let us remember that in Greek, the word 'School' ('skhol') means neither client nor debt, but 'leisure.'""(1) 1-http://sedulia.blogs.com..."	PRO	75
75	Sc5b8d1f0-Ad5cbd57	Is Online College better then Traditional College (Pro=Yes) (Con=No)	"When I say resources, I am referring to human resources, mainly your professors and peers. The best way to improve your math or writing skills is face to face with a professor who is knowledgeable and willing to help you. Google and Yahoo answers can not give you the help a professor (who did what you have to do) can. Peers can also give you valuable input and help you study for quizzes and tests. Infrastructural resources would include labs, libraries, etc. Outside of education would be sport stadiums, tennis courts, pools, etc. I could go on but I will move to my next point; motivation. College will motivate you to learn and excel in class. I remember reading an ad for an online college course, and in bold font, ""Take college in your pjs!"" (Something to that effect). However, is this really a good thing? To me it seems to promote a laid back nature of simply getting the diploma, not putting in the 110%, and actually trying to learn something. Traditional colleges will allow (and encourage) students to take place in debates and class discussions with different professors and different students. Students will learn to take opinions and back them up. Traditional colleges will also teach students how to work under time and pressure, something online colleges can't do. It is also a lot easier to cheat taking on an online college course, which is caused by lack of student motivation to actually learn. You also say that online colleges are cheaper than traditional, which is indeed true. However, there are so many scholarship opportunities available, both academic and athletic. Some colleges also offer jobs on site is allows students to raise some money. Also note that there are programs that will help pay for college tuition."	CON	76
76	Sf76890a8-Aa4c681d5	Higher Education is outdated for the millennial generation	Once more, quotes from my opponent will be italicized. I'm going to make this round very short, as I barely have time to answer before I need to go. I tried answering before, but ddo had an issue and crashed on me, making me lose my progress on this round, right when I was almost done with this round and about to post it. Yes, nursing and doctoring can definitely improve our quality of life - yet does this really create a big social impact? According to 80000.org (1), each doctor saves about 90 lives in their lifetime. That depends on who they just saved the life of. If it was the next Bill Gates, then that doctor had tremendous effect on society. doctors cannot take sole credit for medicine. (Researchers, managers, scientists, nurses) And most of those positions require a college degree, with the exception being managers. You don't need to go to university without creating a big social impact Yes, but it is a means to be able to do so, and a route through which the millennial generation can do it. What about electricity? Or education? Or government? Nearly everyone in our government has, not only a college degree, but a post-graduate degree. And to be a teacher, you need a college degree. 37% students regret going to college, and 49% graduates believe that they would have ended up where they are today without a college degree. I consider these statistics to be helpful to my case, because that means majority of millennials did find going to college useful, didn't regret it, and accept that they couldn't get where they are now without a college degree. This should be used as a reason to vote for pro. Con uses the doctor argument again, yet it is revealed above that medicine is not as influential on the quality of life than investing and utilising your money to elsewhere for society, which millennials care more about. Though each of the examples you brought up, except one(electricity) requires a college degree. A large chunk of jobs that influence society require a college degree. Re: government-funded higher education, con said I personally don't believe this is possible in America. and continued on with points. Yes, I don't think we will get this to happen with the current congress or current president, but it could be possible in the future when and if we get a more progressive president and congress. In addition, we already have education up to high school government funded, and I don't see why most people would be opposed to the idea of extending it to college. Re: Statistics argument: Actually, I do know the sample size for one of the studies;, the one for anxiety was 9282 adults, which was found by going to my source above, and looking up the source they linked to for the number they used. That is a sample size that is much more than enough needed to be a reliable sample size. The second one, which was the percentage of adults with depression, I am having difficulty finding the sample size they used. I'm not sure if there's reason to question the results though, because 6.7% of the adult population having depression seems believable. If anything, that sounds too low. Sources: [8] https://www.nimh.nih.gov...	CON	77
77	S4692357-Accf8218	The Banking Concept of Education is Oppressive	"The banking concept of education is a necessary concept, mainly because to have an advancing knowledge people must have the same equal and basic knowledge. As Hirsch says ""the traditional form of literate culture are precisely the most effective instruments for political and social change."" So for advancements in knowledge and culture and society as a whole the people must be literate and to be literate they need the banking concept of education. It is either that or lose basic concepts of our society and some history because in an age and classroom where students can question authority and lessons they'll reason that they don't need to learn the fundamentals or need to listen to someone who can teach them. The worst case scenario is a society that collapses and has no knowledge of its past, that would be a society not worth living in."	CON	78
78	Se6ffa8fb-A2a94dfb9	Tuition fees will improve education recieved.	The argument that tuition fees are good because they improve the level of education received completely neglects those people who are unable to attend university at all because they cannot afford it. The selection process must be merit-based in order to keep standards up. It is simply wrong to allow students whose parents have money to spare on a college education to continue to receive have such an advantage. The problem should be solved by the government making higher education a bigger priority when deciding what to spend the budget on, not by expecting poor students to pay.	CON	79
79	S1901e66f-Ac1297d44	The Electoral College	Swing States A. Of course swing states are not ideal, but are they really as bad as Con makes them out to be? If we look at voter statistics in swing states, then we can see that swing states also have advantages. B. If we look into the voter composition of the voters in swing states you can see that the composition is much more equal than other states(1). If we look at wisconsin, you can see that 48% of votes went to Donald Trump and 47% to Hillary Clinton in this latest election(2). You guys can explore that map more if you wish, but my point is that the parties are very balanced in these states. Every vote in these states matter, so as a result the candidates will try to appeal to people of both parties. This leads to less extreme candidates. C. Voter turnout in swing state is higher than non-swing states. People in swing state have a higher political education, because they know their vote counts. These are both advantages of swing states. In conclusion, swing states may not be great, but they have their advantages. No system is perfect Influence A. A major point of my opponents is the fact that the electoral college causes an inequality in voting. This is true, but this inequality causes higher voter turnout and higher political education which I presented in my first argument in this round. This influence does not demonstrate a lower voter turnout in other states, so it can’t be bad. B. “This inequality of influence is a clear violation of the basic democratic principle of equal influence in government.” Another basic principle of democracy is being ruled completely by the people, which of course, is not our government. In a democracy the people decide everything, from the smallest law to decleration of war. We are not a perfect democracy. Solid States A. States are not as solid as people may think. I currently live in Texas. Texas is considered to be one of the reddest state out there. In this recent election Texas was not as red as people may believe, with Hillary winning 43% of the votes. B. The voters in solid states such as California are primarily democratic, so if california goes to the democratic party a majority of the population will be celebrating. The populations in these solid states prefer one party, and we cannot blame the electoral college for this. 3rd Party A. in this last lection 3rd party candidates won less than 5% of the popular vote, so even if we were operating under a different system the fate of a third party would not change. Citations 1. http://www.politico.com... 2. http://www.politico.com... 3.http://www.usatoday.com... 4.http://www.nytimes.com...	PRO	80
80	Sb27f930b-A469c10fe	The electoral college should be abolished	"Thank you for accepting this debate. Introduction: what is the electoral college? The electoral college is the system in the United States that decides who will be the next President. This system is unique to Presidential elections, as opposed to the direct popular vote that decides most other elections in the United States. According to the constitution, each state is granted a number of electors, determined by the sum of its Representatives and Senators. The electors of the states vote on who becomes President, and a majority vote is required to win. The United States Constitution does not dictate how the electors are to be elected, only that the states get to decide how they are chosen. Today, the electors are determined by a ""winner take all"" fashion in most states, allotted to the candidate that wins a plurality of the popular vote. In my argument, I will explain why the electoral college is outdated and unreliable. P1: The electoral college is outdated The electoral college system was originally based on the idea of a very indirect democracy. The intent was to have the people control their state legislatures, the state legislatures choose the most educated, experienced citizens of their states, and those citizens choose the President[1]. If necessary, the House of Representatives would have to confirm the President. One of the reasons the founders feared direct popular vote was because at the time, a public that mainly lived in rural areas would not know candidates' positions, or in many cases, not know the candidates at all. This is outdated because, with the rise of the internet and televised political advertising, it is very easy for voters to get informed. For this reason, the original reasons for the electoral college are negated. Furthermore, the electoral college does not function as it did at the founding. While electors originally had freedom to choose candidates they supported, today they are bound to their state's (or in the case of Maine and Nebraska, congressional district's) popular vote[2]. As a result, it no longer even fulfills the founder's intents at a very indirect democracy. P2: The electoral college in its current form is unreliable As mentioned above, most states use a winner-take-all system for electing the electors. This causes problems in terms of representation. Further, because states are guaranteed a minimum of 3 electoral votes (for 2 Senators and 1 Representative minimum), smaller states are given more influence then they should. As seen in this video[3], a Wyoming citizen's vote is worth four times as much as a Californian's vote. While this may seem like it has benefits because it appears to prevent large states from being overshadowed by big states, this is not what happens in actuallity The winner-take-all matter causes most states to be ignored. This is because states where one candidate has polls widely in his or her favor have all their electoral votes ""guaranteed"", unlike ""swing"" states that either candidate can win, where electoral votes are up for grabs. As seen at 2:03 in the video, this causes swing states to gain the most attention in Presidential elections. In other words, a Republican in New York has no influence on the Presidential election, whereas a Republican in Ohio has relatively high influence. The Presidential elections are decided by only a handful of ""swing"" voters in swing states. This causes the actual popular vote to diminish importance. While the popular vote usually has the same result as the electoral vote, it is not always the same. No less than three Presidential elections, 1876, 1888, and 2000, had popular vote winners who lost the electoral vote. An additional two (1800 and 1824) had the election thrown to the House of Representatives because no candidate won a majority of electors. While these elections were relatively close, it is possible for the discrepancy to be much bigger. As seen at about 4:20 in the video I cited above, it is possible for a candidate to win with only 22% of the popular vote. Note that this assumes proportional turnout in each state, and the discrepency can be even larger depending on varying turnout. Also, this assumes the lack of significant third party candidates. The final flaw with the electoral college is the possibility of faithless electors. Although electors are chosen based on popular vote, many states do not have laws preventing them from voting their will. Although faithless electors have not impacted a Presidential election yet, there have been recent reports of multiple faithless electors that might impact this upcomming election. At least three Republican elector candidates set to vote for Romney should he win their respective states have indicated that they will vote for Ron Paul if elected[4]. Although Ron Paul was a candidate in the Republican primaries, he is not running for President. This means that, should the electoral vote be close enough, the election might be thrown into the House of Representatives even though only two candidates will have actually won states. Ron Paul will have gotten three electoral votes despite negligible popular vote count, and there is a remote possibility that he will allow Obama to win without a popular vote or electoral vote plurality. Overall, the electoral college no longer does what it was intended to do, and obstructs democratic electoral process in the United States. It should be abolished in favor of a direct popular vote, which would accurately reflect the desires of the public. Citations 1.http://uselectionatlas.org... 2.http://www.archives.gov... 3.http://www.youtube.com... 4. http://www.washingtonpost.com..."	PRO	81
81	S738233f8-A3b5f2fd7	Should All students after 2035 be required go to college by the law	"I would like to thank my opponent's more than speedy response. I shall refute her argument: 'the law shouldn't jump to say that it is mandatory to go to College, but it should be mandatory to finish high school, since you can drop out at 16 legally.' >Making college mandatory implies that high school and any other education preceding it would be mandatory. I thought I had made that point clear. 'More the point is that if we have such a hard time pushing people to finish high school than why should we push them harder to go to college' >There is no need to motivate them if it is mandatory. On this point, look at my first argument. You did not state any definitive time for doing college. So, by doing on day of college, you have abided by the law. '. If they made it mandatory to go to college than the standard of the education would be compromised because the only goal would be to get people out of college to conform to the law and not challenge people academics.' >If you drop a sponge in water, it will always soak up water. Likewise, if you put a person through more than 10 years of education, they are likely to pick up some knowledge. If college is mandatory, let's just say for this sake, for a year, then if they fail college they leave and they get a job with extra knowledge. Simple. >People will not get out of college to conform to the law. Alot of people want to go to college, and will revel in a free college system. For those who don't like it they can leave after a day. Simple. 'Do you really want a doctor that was pushed through college because of a law not because of there love for the understanding of there bodie' >The requirements for a doctor are extremely high. Nobody can walk into college and just say 'I'll take the doctor's course'. People who meet the requirements for it are likely to want to do college. 'its Ludacris to push people to do something they dont want to do.' >The resolution does not state the state chooses the course. The resolution states college be mandatory. This gives people an option of an abundance of courses, and are likely to find one they like. Again, they can just drop out after one day. 'The subject was NOT changed' >Actually, it was. College being mandatory implies high school being mandatory. You can't jump onto one point to try and win another. 'i also did not result to name call such as saying ""worming out""' >Worming out is not a name call, it is a verb. It means to try and escape. Like a worm would do through a hole. You tried to escape the topic at hand. It is quite clear my opponent has not made any valid points. I have refuted them all and she has refuted none of my arguments. I have not attacked her, and she tried to completely change the topic at hand. I urge a PRO vote."	PRO	82
82	S1e44a13d-Ac1462c76	The introduction of more private universities would increase the quality of education by allowing open competition	"In the rest of the economy, when consumers are allowed to choose between goods or services, the higher quality products are successful and the bad ones fail. Similarly, when consumers can makes choices between universities, and are putting money on the line (thus taking a risk) they will choose the good universities, and consider the bad universities as not worth wasting their money on. As a consequence, the best universities will expand, and the worst universities will either improve or fail. The New College of the Humanities for example is aiming to rival Oxford and Cambridge1 so helping to provide these two elite institutions with the necessary competition to force up standards. This will result in a higher quality of education being available to more people. 1 BBC News, ""Academics launch £18,000 college in London.” 5 June 2011 improve this  "	PRO	83
83	Sfad66533-Aeb1f297a	No money for education	We spent 536 billion for education in '04: http://www.ed.gov... That's over fifteen hundred bucks for every man, woman and child in this ignorant country. If you had to decide how to spend your share, how would you do it? We will need American flags and pledges of allegiance. Not. University presidents raking in six figures. Not. Interference from Big Business? You'll probably give it to them anyway for some degree-at-home scam. The greatest obstacle to learning is not ignorance. It is the illusion of learning. No money for education. No federal, state, county, borough, municipality money may be spent for education. It shall be unlawful to give or receive money to pretend that you know more about something than anyone else. Some college professors will be OK as long as there is no one in the class smarter than they are. All teachers, principals and admisistrators are to be fired immediately. The Department of Education will be dismantled. Application of this to churches is beyond the scope of this debate. The terms LD format, criteria, value, contention, crystallization, CX, etc refer to portions of an argument for purpose of scoring and time management for oral high school debating tournaments and have absolutely no force of rule here. You may find the formal criteria useful. Any rules must be in writing and agreed to by all participants before the beginning of play. This is intergalactic law. The No Child Left Behind Act is a plan to entice students to join the military with false promises and outright lies. For more info check out the picket line at your local recruiting office. And speaking of religion how about this privately funded educational system. The government (theoretically at least) has nothing to do with it. It provides free education to anyone that wants it because those doing the educating care about educating and not because the government pays them. Home schooling also, compared to our educational system, beats it like the family mule. Now this money that we now waste on education will be immediately available for learning and it is a lot. The educational system not only teaches but certifies that you have been taught. It issues a certificate stating that you are guaranteed to have learned. It spends a great amount of time and energy making sure that you learn. And it is all wasted anyway because students are entering college who lack basic reading skills. Newspapers have to be written at the fourth grade reading level. We call a doctor for dandruff. We do no have the math skills to even shop intelligently, not to mention manage our fourteen-digit debt. An alarming number of Americans cannot read at all, take pills without even knowing what they do and believe Elvis is still alive. We know less about the world than anyone else in it. People in other countries who have no formal education at all and still speak several languages are making fun of Americans who do not know or care where Iran is and can't even commit suicide without assistance. Something needs to be done about this failed system. What does our educationl system teach? http://www.nytimes.com... Hate.	PRO	84
84	Sc1b11a97-A8f8dab06	Free Education	"I thank Con for their response............kind of. Civic Me pointing out that Con is making an interpretation of the American constitution hardly warrants the accusation from Con that I am trivializationing the constitution. The main point here is that Cons own interpretation of the constitution is just that, their OWN interpretation. The pursuit of happiness does not equate to therefore thou shall not have public education. As far as Cons comment about the USA democracy/society been the most benevolent good luck justifying that. If the USA was to get rid of public education would that make the USA more or less benevolent ? it would make it less. Ironically, Con here gives another reason to justify public education, that been a society or government seeking to be benevolent and public education is a good way to go about it. Economic Con says...""Taking so-called ""free"" education for granted because it's ""free"" is the problem because a diploma should be a treasured document and not a common piece of paper."" Con wrongly conflates that if something is common then it must be of less value or even worthless. Maybe we should make more people blind so the value of seeing is worth more ? hardly, something can be common yet still be of high value. Public education should not exist, and if disagree with me you are a communist who loves Fidel Castro After showing the errors in Cons logic to justify no public education should exist, Con has resorted to ad homien attacks such as...""Pro obviously believes in the supremacy of government over all."" & ...""Sounds like Pro would love to live in a ""WORKERS PARADISE""ï¿½. It is only a ninety-mile trip on the yacht of your choice to Cuba from Key West."" This ends my argument for round 3."	PRO	85
85	S54bdc9d5-A63a20b76	College athletes should not be paid.	College athletes should not be paid for many reasons. A. We would be putting too much of a value on sports rather than academics. Why should we pay athletes for paying sports that don't help better the society? We have students that are researching the big problems in the world, and getting degrees that could help them alter the course of human history. What kind of message would it send to children in high school and below if we pay college athletes? Many kids would reason that because you could get paid to do a sport in college, that it is more important than learning things that could better our society. The athletes are there to get an education, and educated people are what is making the world a better place. B. Many other students bring money into the school. Would we pay them too? One of my teachers once talked about the fact that she brought in around $2,000 a semester by writing for the school newspaper. Would we also pay every single person that brought money into the school? How is it fair if the athletes get some of the money that they bring in, but all the academics out there wouldn't? C. What about other sports? a. How is it fair that one sports' athletes, (most likely mens' basketball and football,) get more money than all of the other sports? Sports are all equal. b. What would be done about the fact that female athletes would inevitably receive less money? Does title IX apply? (1) D. What about high school sports? Where would this all end? If a high school football player brings money in to his school, is he then ALSO entitled to a cut of the money? E. They are already being paid in scholarship money. The average college athlete starts of their life after college with an average of $27,000 less student loan debt. (2) Because that's (more than, because of interest) $27,000 that they wont have to pay that non-college athletes will have to pay. F. Most colleges do not have the money to pay for their athletes. Currently, 90% of athletic departments lose money. Lose. Money. That means they can't even cover their own costs with their revenue. This is a problem because if they can't pay for their own programs, how can they be expected to pay their athletes? (1) http://www.titleix.info... (2) http://kystokes.wordpress.com...	PRO	86
86	Se6a1eebb-A7894d066	Abolish the Electoral College	"In the last line of my 2nd paragraph, I said, ""But if you implemented a different standard (for example, the popular vote) then everybody's vote counts the same, and nobody in the population's vote is not counted or worth any less."" This shows why another standard, like the popular vote, is superior to the electoral college. With the electoral college, a person's vote counts less based on where they live. Con dropped my argument about Wyoming and Texas, skipping right over to the ""majority rules"" thing which I will address next. But let me repeat that in Wyoming a citizen's vote is worth 4x the vote of someone in Texas. This is not justified and Con says the alternatives would ignore a hefty chunk of the population, when really this standard provides unfair weighing that values each citizen's vote differently based on the state they live in (population). Con said that most places have a ""small minority"" of dissent so it's realistic and acceptable to ask people to move. This drops all my arguments. Extend my arguments because my opponent dropped them all: It's not fair or reasonable to expect people to move so their vote matters, especially when there are alternatives. This would be bad for diversity. People who are in the minority within their small area (state) still deserve to have their voice's heard, but the electoral college renders their vote useless if other people from their state drown them out. This is ironic in a system that claims to value minority rights. Also it's not true that every state and city is politically homogeneous. Iowa has an approximately equal number of registered Republicans and registered Democrats. Second, it is one of the most elastic states, with a large swath of unaffiliated voters. http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com... There are many cities and states where ethnic, economic and political diversity work and are successful. http://www.cnbc.com... Con is nasty and says ""I would appreciate if you read my argument more carefully"" as if people are mind readers who know what his intended argument was. He didn't specify that he was talking about 12 people in the final election, and apparently Con is ignorant to the fact that there are more than 2 Democrats and Republicans that run in the final election as well... so he should probably think twice about making nasty comments when he has proven to be ignorant in this regard. There is the Democratic nominee, Republican nominee, along with Libertarian and Green Party nominees, Constitution Party, Prohibition Party, Veterans Party, Nutrition Party, America's Party, Party for Socialism, etc. and they all have presidential nominees. https://en.wikipedia.org... Extend my arguments on more parties having a greater variety of candidates being a good thing, Con dropped it, and Con dropped my point about the burden of pigeonholing ideologies or how people would likely come together to form major political parties anyway even under the popular vote. Con says I have offered no solutions in the last round but that is a flat out lie. This is literally my last paragraph of the last round: ""Con says the popular vote system is the only alternative, but this is not true. In addition to the popular vote (making each citizen's vote count once) there have been other proposals for reform or abolition of the electoral college, including the Bayh""Celler Constitutional amendment, Every Vote Counts amendment, and National Popular Vote Interstate Compact."""	PRO	87
87	S16199f60-Aff0ff07a	Ending Education Subsidies	"If Con had responded to my question in the comments section about whether he's a college student and has access to an academic journal search engine by simply stating that he isn't a college student, I could have helped him access the sources I'm citing. Source [2] from R2 is available in google books--you can't read the whole book online, but if you search for the quote I used, you can find it. The entire Source [1] from R3 isn't available online without a subscription to an academic search engine, but you can find the abstract, which includes a description of the experiment and its conclusion, on google scholar. If Con really wanted to see the whole study, I probably could have found a way to download it and email it to him. Source [3] from R3 is available on google books--you can't read the whole book, but you can read the chapter I'm citing as well as the citations from that chapter. Apparently Con was unable to transfer his ability to google things to debating. Con's Contentions I do not concede that college is required for success. I concede that it is correlated with success—but think that Con has the causation backwards. I’m not saying that college shouldn’t result in higher incomes; I’m saying that college doesn’t result in higher incomes—the traits that cause people to have higher incomes result in people going to college. C1: Human Capital “Pro's entire argument on this point comes down to the point that college students should not take breadth courses since it doesn't ""teach them how to think"" and they won't use those skills in their job.” Here, Con again fails to understand my argument. I am not saying that breadth courses aren’t useful for work; I’m saying that almost all courses aren’t useful for work. Con talks about how someone might use sociology or psychology classes to learn “how to interact with people.” While knowing how to interact with people might be a useful skill, it isn’t actually the subject matter of any sociology or psychology class. “Understanding human nature” might be part of one of those classes, perhaps an evolutionary psychology class, but it’s hard to see how this applies to any actual job. HTML is certainly an example of a useful skill that someone could use in a job after college. But this just proves my point—writing HTML will prepare you for writing more HTML. That is hardly the same thing as expecting someone to transfer the knowledge they acquired about gender conflicts in sociology class to an actual job. “I read the link he provided in round 1” I find that hard to believe. From the sentence preceding the description of the study involving the retarded woman: “Two experiences I had illustrate that the answer to that question depends on your point of view.” [1] The author is illustrating an idea, not proving it. Con’s claim that, “From there they jumped to the conclusion that skills are not transferable” is simply not true—to conclude that learning is not transferable, the author discussed a century’s worth of other studies on transfer of learning theory (mostly done on college students, not the mentally retarded). [1] C2: Signalling Con again fails to support his claim that college makes students more intelligent. He again repeats that it makes them more knowledgeable, which isn’t the same thing. If general transfer of learning doesn’t exist, then it’s hard to see how college classes that have nothing to do with IQ tests would cause people to get higher IQs. Again, I agreed that going to college is better for building work ethic than sitting at home doing nothing, but given the amount of time students actually spend studying, it’s hard to believe it’s better at building work ethic than actually having a job. Con also fails to respond to my argument about college signaling conscientiousness. Con argues that students who never went to college for sociology wouldn’t be able to get a job that requires a degree in sociology. Of course, this begs the question, how many jobs require a degree in sociology? All the people I know with liberal arts degrees got jobs that ask for a bachelors degree in anything—suggesting that the job doesn’t particularly care about the specific knowledge they gained in school. C3: Useful Education Everyone go to college? Why not have everyone get a PhD? Several PhDs? That way we’d maximize productivity. Comments on Voting: Conduct: Con’s complaint here is basically that my argument was unexpected. The resolution was that educational subsidies should be ended—my argument supports the resolution, it just does so in a way Con doesn’t like. I suppose I should have just argued that college is just as wonderful as Con thinks it is, but we shouldn’t subsidize it because I hate poor people—that way I could let Con win and avoid hurting his feelings by making better arguments than him, which apparently is considered poor conduct now. In the future, I will try to always debate exactly the way my opponent wants me to, to avoid having poor conduct. In addition, I think Con should lose the conduct point for lying. He either lied about having read my Detterman source, or did read it, but lied about what it said. Sources: See my intro. This is how the conversation should have gone: LF-“And are you a college student? If so your university probably has some sort of search engine for those kind of citations.” F16-“No, I’m not.” LF-“My bad, I thought you were. Here, you can use google scholar and google books to get a preview of the sources I use. It won’t show the whole book/study, but it can confirm the parts I quote are there. And if you really want to see the whole journal article, I can just email you the pdf from my university’s search engine.” F16-“Thanks! And since there’s still 2 days left before I have to post, I still have plenty of time to make my argument—there’s no need for me to just rush ahead and accuse you of lying about your sources without bothering to have this quick conversation first.” But no. [1] http://cms.educ.ttu.edu..."	PRO	88
88	S5346a370-Abe555b98	Free Education Lowering Poor Rates	"My closing argument and final points: 1. Affordability of Community College/Trade Schools Trade Schools and Community Colleges can be very inexpensive. The base tuition for my local Community College is $5,000. If you live off-campus (ideally still at home with your folks) and apply for merit based and need based aid/grants, then this drops even further. In comparison to 4 year colleges, it is a question of, ""Do you want to buy a 6 inch sub for 5 dollars, or a full foot long for 500 dollars?"". 2. Many other causes of Poverty Not getting an education is not always the direct problem, sometimes it is simply a symptom. Often drug addiction or a pregnancy will factor into someone's decision to drop out. These people often drop out during high school, and they have nothing but their own decisions to blame. Drug addicts care more about working their McDonald's job to buy lines of coke then their schooling. Teen moms sometimes don't have the family support to go to school and raise a child (The child being an outcome of a poor decision from two people's judgement.) I will cite a personal experience just to show you the irresponsibility of some people. I know a teen who got his teen partner pregnant, twice. The first time, it was a miscarriage. This second time, it seems like they are gonna have a baby. He claims he couldn't afford condoms. So he apparently decided just not to worry about it and do it anyway despite not being ready to raise a child. This personal example shows you that some people do not make very good life decisions. These people should not be breeding, but funny enough, it is their stupidity that eggs them on to breed. So you can see, not everyone would be able or even want to take advantage of the free higher education. Many people stupidly just live day to day without any thought about long term consequences, such as their education. 3. Financial Aid There are many avenues of aid open to those in need. Community College is a great way to improve your ability to seek jobs that have higher earning potential. It is also a lot cheaper than the full 4 year private experience. Although, if you insist on the 4 year degree, there is still a lot of aid open to you. Aid at a community college can just about give you a free ride already. Aid at a private 4 year university gives you a lot of help if you meet the criteria. This is especially true for the ones who struggle most to get their higher education, minorities. Through the help if merit based aid, need based aid, and affirmative action, minorities can help get a decent push in the right direction. This helps them in the fight against Institutional Racism. (Depending on your definition, some people prefer to redefine racism as prejudice plus power, I myself prefer the classics and using institutional racism in that specific case. Anyway..) 4. Cost of The Program The cost of having free higher education would undeniably force a higher burden on taxpayers, or major budget cuts in other areas. College is expensive. Having Uncle Sam pick up the tab is expensive. 5. The Republican Party The Republicans would not like this program. It would be hard getting it passed, and once it gets passed, it may not survive. So in summary, you can see that free higher education is a costly, expensive program, that would not solve all cases of poverty."	CON	89
89	Se6ffa8fb-Ab7d0a2ac	University education is an investment.	Education of this higher level should be seen as investment, not just of time but also of money. A person who gets a University education can expect to earn more in their life time than someone with just A levels. If we stopped making excuses and put the effort in, we could all afford to go to university, even if we did have to take out personal loans and credit cards. We just have to acknowledge that the three years of living on the breadline is worth it for the future profits that the degree shall reap. Such an investment is not one that the government should have to make on our behalf. It is for our benefit, therefore we should stump the costs. The amount of students leaving university and struggling to get a graduate level job is increasing, therefore why should the government fund free university education when the amount of jobs for graduates are running low?	PRO	90
90	S1db3eaf8-Acb8b6618	The quality of education suffers when university education is free	Without university fees, universities become dependent on the state for funding. This leads to larger class­sizes and less spending per student.[1] Yet with fees, the quality of universities increases for three reasons. First, funding improves, as university may charge in accordance with need. Second, quality of teaching is improved. Because a university wants people to attend and to pay fees, the programs and degrees they offer have to be good signals of quality requiring hiring the best lecturers. Third, the average quality of students attending university will improve. This is because students feel they need to get the most from their investment in education. An example of higher quality education from fee­paying is that of the United States, which has eighteen of the top fifty ranked universities in the world.[2] Quality is clearly improved when university is not free. [1] Brady, Hugh. 2008. “We Must Invest Now in Our Universities or Pay Later”. University College Dublin News Available: http://www.ucd.ie/news/2008/03MAR08/200308_stud ents.html​               [2] QS World University Rankings 2015/16, QS, http://www.topuniversities.com/university-rankings/world-university-rankings/2015 	PRO	91
91	S5346a370-Ac6522f9a	Free Education Lowering Poor Rates	"Some households face discrimination by landlords who are unwilling to rent to voucher holders. They do this as an economic advantage because the poor people may fail to pay rent. The main cause of this issue is that people put so much value on money and use money as a way to determine people""s worth. The rich continually have many opportunities to make more money because they use the money they already have to help them, while the poor can""t really do much because they don""t have much money. The poor have many disadvantages while the rich can make sure they get to have advantages. Even if the poor want to start working at a better paying job, the employers , before even looking at their resumes, might judge them for the way they look. They might not have as good of an education as the rich because they couldn""t afford to pay for the college fees. Since they couldn""t get a better education, they can""t get the better paying job. They continue to stay poor. Since people put so much value on money, they think the more money you have, the better you are. It gives the people a feeling of superiority and makes them think that they have to right to look down on the people making less money than them. People with money also tend to have much more power than those who don""t. The ones who don""t want to make sure that they are in favor of the ones that hold the power, so they would also look down on those who make less money than them to show the rich that they are thinking in the same way as them; that the rich are more superior."	PRO	92
92	Sc7831446-Acb8b6618	The quality of education suffers when university education is free	Without university fees, universities become dependent on the state for funding. This leads to larger class­sizes and less spending per student.[1] Yet with fees, the quality of universities increases for three reasons. First, funding improves, as university may charge in accordance with need. Second, quality of teaching is improved. Because a university wants people to attend and to pay fees, the programs and degrees they offer have to be good signals of quality requiring hiring the best lecturers. Third, the average quality of students attending university will improve. This is because students feel they need to get the most from their investment in education. An example of higher quality education from fee­paying is that of the United States, which has eighteen of the top fifty ranked universities in the world.[2] Quality is clearly improved when university is not free. [1] Brady, Hugh. 2008. “We Must Invest Now in Our Universities or Pay Later”. University College Dublin News Available: http://www.ucd.ie/news/2008/03MAR08/200308_stud ents.html​               [2] QS World University Rankings 2015/16, QS, http://www.topuniversities.com/university-rankings/world-university-rankings/2015 	PRO	93
93	S1ce229d0-A742b0755	College Football is better than NFL football	"Expanded Rebuttal ""For me, an Iowa Hawkeyes and Notre Dame fan, I enjoy watching these teams a little more than I do watching my favorite NFL team, the Chicago Bears. Now, don't get me wrong I adore the NFL, but there is something about college football that makes it better."" This debate should involve more than Pro's opinion on the subject. It should include some quotes, statistics, facts, sources, and arguments that establish his side of the debate, but sadly his case is lacking in these elements. If I grant Pro's point that his slight enjoyment advantage for college footbal makes college football better, we could glean a more comprehensive and statistically accurate response if we used poll numbers of a larger sample size spread across the United States of America. When we delve into the poll numbers, it is clear that the result is that Americans overwhelmingly prefer watching NFL football (62%) to college football (38%). [1] Also, when looking at the distributional map for these polling numbers, it is important to note that the states without professional football teams (e.g. West Virginia, Idaho, Oregon) are MUCH more likely to prefer college football (which exists in those states) to professional football in the NFL (which does not exist in those states). [2] ""College Football has a much different feeling than NFL football. It is something a lot of Americans can get into because they may have attended the school they love."" Today, 30.4 percent of Americans have a bachelors degree. [3] That means that you are limiting this criterion to less than 1/3 of the United States that ""can get into"" college football, because they've attended schools with football programs. Many of those degrees were granted at institutions without college football programs. And even people who have attended universities or colleges with football programs, some of the football programs are notoriously bad, Division II, or Division III, which are really not even worth watching unless they compete for a national or regional title. The reason why NFL football wins this point is because it is something everyone can enjoy whether or not they went to college. Educational achievement is not a limiting factor in NFL football enjoyment or game-day spirit as set up by Pro. ""For me I like the Iowa Hawkeyes because my father attended that school and my entire family is from Iowa, they also root for them as well."" Iowa also lacks a professional football team, so you are in the statistical minority of people with a higher propensity to root for a college football over a professional team, due to satisfying this condition. ""My point is that it is easier to like a college football team rather than an NFL team because you can say that you attended the school. I myself can say that about the college I will be attending in 2 years. The passion of college football beats the passion of the NFL."" Again, less than 1/3 of Americans attain bachelor's degrees, and the proportion of Americans who attended schools with good football programs (or football programs at all) is much lower. That's why, for example, I don't cheer for NYU's football team; they don't have one. College is an institution for learning, not a distraction center for worshipping a sports team, which diverts its funds from productive and promising research to encouraging brain disorders in football collisions. [1] http://www.theatlanticcities.com... [2] http://cdn.theatlanticcities.com... [3] http://www.census.gov..."	CON	94
94	S1901e6ad-Abd90b6fa	The Electoral College	"Note that my opponent copied his Slate source word-for-word, and Slate did not provide any sources or proof on many of its points. Neither did Sciencebuzz; it juts gave examples and no data. Also note that my opponent only used two websites as sources. I was limited to 10000 characters so had to take measures to not go over. 1. This is not even possible. You cannot give more power to every voter because the total power of all of the voters (control the election results) does not change. Here's a different proof. Your link says that because a candidate needs to win two states to win, they need two million votes. Voters are thought of as part of those two million getting their candidate to win. On the other hand, a popular vote voter is one in three million. The error is that in a popular vote, you need 1.5 million and one to win, so voters are actually one in 1.5 million, by that logic. In fact, the electoral college gives a lot of people less power. Here is the election forecast made by renowned statistician Nate Silver. If you scroll down, you will find a Voter Power Index, where he lists in which states your vote counts the most. You'll find some extreme imbalance. For example, a New Mexican voter is twice as important as a Floridian and five times as important as a South Dakotan. projects.fivethirtyeight.com/2016-election-forecast 2. If Kennedy won by 0.2%, it shows that the public was very indecisive on whether he should be president, so the electoral college deciding isn't really saving the day, it's deciding the winner arbitrarily. It's like if you decided the winner of a tied race by flipping a coin. Anyway, let's just look at the data. In history, there have been just two elections where the popular vote was within 0.5%, which is usually a good bar for recounts. When? In 1880 and 1960, with Garfield and Kennedy. (Side note, both got assassinated). Maybe you can stretch that number to four if you include 2000, which was decided by 0.52%, and 1884, which was 0.57%. So anywhere from two to four elections would need a recount. How about electoral college recounts? These we'll consider when flipping a few states could have flipped the election, and that state (or states) was within 0.5%. So we have Florida in 2000, California in 1916, and South Carolina in 1876. Ohio and one more state does it in 1976, and Hawaii, Illinois, and Missouri does it in 1960. These were all within 0.6%. That is at least three and up to eight recounts under the electoral college. So as you can see, the electoral college by no means reduces the number of recounts we need. Recounts might not even be an issue at all, as most recounts find only minuscule changes in results. fivethirtyeight.com/features/recounts-rarely-reverse-election-results wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_United_States_presidential_elections_by_popular_vote_margin (also links to specific elections) 3. You phrased it ""not to ignore the rural parts of states,"" which is ambiguous. I'll tackle both interpretations. In case 1, I would like to point out to you that the ten most rural states got a grand total of... four campaign events out of about 400. Almost all extremely rural states, like Mississippi, Wyoming, Montana, Nebraska, Idaho, etc. are nearly completely ignored in presidential races. So that point is invalidated. priceonomics.com/the-most-urbanized-states-in-america You say that the electoral college would force candidates to pay attention to the rural part of a state, but keep in mind that on the state level, the election is by popular vote. So saying that on a state level, the electoral college protects rural areas is self-defeating, that's saying the popular vote protects rural areas, which is against your side. The popular vote does not mean that rural areas are ignored. Take the presidential election in Ohio, 2012. (Remember that the election in each state is run by the popular vote.) In The four biggest metro areas, accounting for 54% of its population, got 52% of Ohio's campaign events. Similarly, the seven smaller metro areas, accounting for 24% of Ohio's population, got 23% of the campaign events. The remaining rural areas, which were 22% of the population, got 25% of the campaign events. You'll also see that the distribution of campaign events by location was quite balanced; there are larger clusters around denser areas, but many events in the rural areas too, which is reflective of the population distribution. youtube.com/watch?v=_gbwv5hf2Ps 4. Minorities are concentrated in the ignored safe states like Mississippi, Texas, Hawaii, California, and New York. Here's proof with data: Republicans lose big with minorities, winning around 25%-30% of the non-black minorities and just 6% of the black vote. The same story goes with religion. Under a system where it's a good idea to care for minorities, you'd expect that the Democrats to have a big advantage, but they don't; twice in the past five elections the electoral college gave the white house to the Republicans. nytimes.com/interactive/2016/11/08/us/politics/election-exit-polls.html?_r=0 projects. fivethirtyeight.com/2016-swing-the-election (When used again I'll call it ""swing source"") 5. The electoral college doesn't cause a two party system, the spoiler effect does, which is present in a plurality vote. You can tell as nearly all senators and governors are either red or blue, and those elections are run by a popular vote. wikipedia.org/wiki/Spoiler_effect 6. As we discussed before there have been 2-4 disputable popular vote verdicts, but 3-5 disputable electoral college verdicts. So the electoral college is not more likely to produce a certain verdict. This is complicated by the fact that there can be faithless electors; they may be able to sway an extremely close election like 1876, and the legitimacy of such an outcome would be disputed. Furthermore, the electoral college doesn't even always produce a winner. Candidates need 270 electoral votes, a majority to win. This means that if there is a tie, or third parties grab enough electoral votes that no candidate reaches 270 electoral votes, there is no winner and congress must decide the vice president and president using an extremely unfair system. (Not enough characters to elaborate) As an example, in 1824, Jackson won a plurality of the popular vote and electoral vote and yet lost, and the voters were furious. 7. No region alone will allow you to win the popular or electoral vote. However, with the electoral vote, you can gain 100% of the electoral vote from that region, whereas with the popular vote, you never will. Take the largest region, the South. Under the electoral college, you can win 36% of the electoral vote by winning all of the South. More likely is that you will win 33% of it, since Maryland and Delaware are solidly blue. Under the popular vote, 37% of the population lives in the South. However, you're not going to win 37% of the popular vote just from the South, or even 33% like in the electoral college. Let's be extremely generous and say you'll get 70% of the vote in the South, more than any candidate got in any state (not counting DC), let alone region, in 2016. That's just 26% of the popular vote. The electoral college encourages relying on a regional appeal, not the popular vote. wikipedia.org/wiki/Demography_of_the_United_States wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_U.S._states_and_territories_by_population Swing source 8. The point of democratic voting (including representative systems) is that everyone's vote is equal. So this point is advocating for disenfranchisement. Not only that, it's fundamentally wrong. The most thoughtful people tend to be the most well educated, regardless of what state they live in. Just because your vote doesn't count doesn't mean you don't pay attention to the race. We can, by your logic, say we should only let well educated people vote. Even if we should only let the most thoughtful vote, there are two more reasons this point doesn't work. For one, the most thoughtful people tend to live in cities, where people are more educated. The swing states are not particularly educated. The second is that if we use a popular vote, everyone's vote counts, so by your logic, a popular vote would also be decided by thoughtful voters. Swing source 9. This is more a rebuttal to my point. Anyway, you are conceding that it is unfair for some voters to get more power than others, as you are defending the electoral college by saying it does not give voters in small states more power. You then must also concede that it is unfair for voters in swing states to get more power. 10. The electoral college is worse than the popular vote in this respect. In those elections you mentioned, the electoral college did not elect a candidate with the majority of votes either. You cannot say that that doesn't matter since under the electoral college only electoral votes matter, because then you are saying criteria for a good voting system changes based on the system. Not only that, the electoral college does not require that you win a majority in a state to win it. In fact, no candidate won a majority of votes in 14 states this election. On the other hand, the popular vote is good at electing majority winners; in the 905 gubernatorial elections since WWII, 90% won with a majority, 99% with 40%, and all won with at least 35% of the vote. youtube.com/watch?v=X_IUIaf9egA A representative democracy doesn't strive to be perfectly democratic, it strives to fairly represent its citizens. The electoral college does not do this. Remember that representatives are directly elected using a popular vote, and these representatives then vote on issues. The president is a representative that can veto and enact these issues. I will post my rebuttal to the last part of your point in the comments, since I am out of characters."	CON	95
95	S1901e6eb-Ad49938c2	The Electoral College	"Happy to think with you today, Small note for accuracy, The college votes are 538 total. 2 for each state from senators, 1 per congressman and 3 for Washington D. C. 100 Senators + 435 Congressmen + 3 for D. C. Meaning a majority is 270 for victory. Here are the problems with the Electoral College, As well as Congress in general. 1. Electoral College Power Per Vote In some states, One vote is worth 3x or more of one vote from another state. Wymoming has 3. 6x~ the voting power of a Texan. (1) This goes far beyond ""protecting the small states. "" We have the Senate to protect small states. 2 votes per state no matter how small or large. I submit that the small states are protected by the senate. Each person from smaller states should not have 2x or more voting power than someone from a large state. It's ridiculous. As people from the United States, We get called out quite a bit for the 3/5ths compromise regarding blacks, Yet a Texas vote for president is approximately 1/4th of a Wyoming vote. This is injustice. The difference in voting power has much to do with the Senate being included in the EC, And the unbalanced current HoR. More on this later. 2. The House of Representatives member size has been capped since 1929. (2) The House of Representatives is supposed to grant large states and small states equal power by population, But it fails at this. The numbers of the HoR hasn't expanded since 1929 when it was frozen by law. When our nation was founded 1 congressmen represented 57k people. Now it is 1 congressmen per 747k people, On average. However, Some states have grown faster than others population wise and are being cheated congressional seats. This furthers the above disparity to the point it is now at, With Texans being worth about a quarter of a vote from Wyoming electoral-college power wise. The HoR should be expanded or redistributed to represent an even number of people. Many believe the state with the smallest population should be the scale we determine HoR seats with. This would go a long way in narrowing the gap, But the states that benefit from the frozen House will likely not support it. 3. EC destroys Minority Representation Currently in the electoral college the popular vote in a state gives the winning candidate 100% of the EC votes from that state (except for one or two states I believe). Since this is the case, Many states are locked solid democrat or solid republican. The minority from the large states have zero representation when it comes to the presidential election. This means if 55% of a state is Democrat, 45% of that state has no power when it comes to electing the president, And in fact, Are doing their party a disservice by bumping up the numbers of that state. Zero representation destroys voter confidence that their vote means something, And directly lowers turnout. 4. Small States are not Protected with the EC. Only a few states are. Because of the above fact, Where solid democrat states give all their votes to democrats, Those states that are solidly dem or republican are often ignored. In fact, 6 states received 2/3rds of the visits and money from candidates in 2016. (3) 96% of the events held were in just 12 states. This is seen time and time again election after election. As it currently stands, The president is only really selected by these swing states. (Florida, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Virginia, And Michigan) 5. Lowest Popular Vote possible for a Win. The lowest possible amount of the popular vote one can receive in the US and win the electoral college is currently 23%. (4) This means one candidate could have 77% of the popular vote and lose. This is due to the disproportionate voting power of states like Wyoming and the lesser voting power of states like Texas. This isn't something fixed with ""minor reforms"" as my opponent suggests. A 54 point landslide victory can currently be a loss. The EC is a broken system to the extreme. Voters lose confidence in the EC primarily during elections where the majority vote loses to the minority vote. I believe Clinton won popular vote by over 2 million and still lost the election. It is a travesty. To conclude, Our government could be defined in many ways, Unfortunately the electoral college leaves us with a frozen HoR, Disparity among voting power, And the only ones actually voting the president into office are the swing states, Who receive all the attention and benefits. You have to be able to tell me that there's nothing wrong with Texans getting 1/4th of the voting power of someone from Wyoming, Washington D. C. , Et cetera. You have to tell me, At the same time as you say the HoR is supposed to favor the large states, That it's ok that the small states are also disproportionately represented there because of the freeze. The freeze likely stemming from a desire to not rock the boat in the EC. You have to tell me that it's ok when 40%-49% of a state's population not only has zero representation, But the power of their vote is actively used against their candidate. You have to tell me how the EC protects the small states when 25 states received no visits from either campaign. You have to say that all of that is OK for you. I submit to the audience it is not fair in these 5 ways. Already, More than 5% of our elections have been won by the person who lost the popular vote. Elections in the future will be the same. Is it acceptable for only a few states to determine our President? Is it acceptable that 23% of the population could determine our President despite the other candidate receiving the other 77%? It is not. There is nothing wrong with the president being directly elected. It would increase voter turnout, Give the minorities in non-swing state a voice, Small states would even have more representation than they do now. The HoR could be unfrozen. 23% couldn't win over 77%. The President of the United States should be one who represents all of the people, Not just those in a handful of swing states. May your thoughts be clear, -Thoht"	CON	96
96	S738233f8-Af0331d59	Should All students after 2035 be required go to college by the law	I would like to thank my opponent for responding. To start, my opponent's argument is trying to change the topic completely. She is trying to worm her way out by addressing a completely different issue altogether. She says 'before we argue that college should be must be mandatory we need to enforce completing high school' This should have been addressed at the start of the debate. Also, the debate is arguing that college should be mandatory. My opponent has forgotten that by implying college is mandatory, all education up to that would have to be mandatory. My opponent cannot state we must address a completely different issue. If she wants to debate that, he must do a completely separate debate. By saying college should be mandatory, it is already implying education up to college should be mandatory. Because my opponent has not made a valid argument thus far, I urge a PRO vote.	PRO	97
97	Sa60e8842-A3a09d887	Education Reform	"My opponent never clearly defined what about education reform he wanted to debate and never had an essential question or anything of the like. Nevertheless; I will attempt to debate what he has stated in round 1 & 2 and ask for further clarification of the topic, as ""education reform"" is a VERY broad topic. -""I am focusing on the financial side of life"" Even so our Per Capita GDP has been rising significantly (http://www.rocklin.ca.gov... ) so saying that skills taught in today's classes aren't worth anything when it comes to finances is nonsense, in fact it's the compete opposite, it's lead to a rise in wealth. -Your ""Example"" First I would like to point out that you have ""made-up"" ""(NOTE:fictional)"" situation and backed it with no evidence of how the education system we have now is responsible for what you have provided. Nor do I see how this supports your argument. In your example Jill had done more work and got a great job, Fred had not. How does anything to do education reform? ""In school, mathematics, science, and history are all taught fruitlessly. In a work-style environment, the children would utilize these skills day after day, intertwining them in their work as they would do in the real world. However, in the current system, children are taught the subjects disconnectedly from the real world."" What evidence do you have to support this contention? My opponent has also failed to produce any evidence of how we have over emphasized on life-skills in schools. My opponent has also decided to apparently change the topic, arguing for education reform at the elementary level, Never declaring that in his opening arguments, again I ask for clarification. Contention #1 Life Skills This contention still stands as my opponent has not refuted it. Contention #2 Life Skill are not the only thing taught at Schools. My opponent yet again not refuted my example of more ""real-world"" life skills are taught in schools in today more then ever. New: Contention #3 I would also like to point out that education has been improving significantly in the United States. My opponent states their is an over emphasis on life skills in today's schools, yet how does he explain that ""America's nine-year-olds posted the best scores in reading (since 1971) and math (since 1973) in the history of the report. America's 13-year-olds earned the highest math scores the test ever recorded."", ""cross-the-board improvements were made in mathematics and in fourth-grade reading."" http://www.ed.gov..."	CON	98
98	Sf3328136-A7cb9eb7d	Free tuition for college students through government taxation should be supported.	"This is topic 27 from the Online Debate Tournament. I'm required to provide an argument for the Pro side, and Brittwaller is the Con side. College tuition is one of the most expensive expenditures any person or family faces. In fact, after possibly a house, it is the most expensive thing any person will ""buy."" There is already legislation in the tax code for deducting the expense of education from taxes. The 2007 US tax year allowed one to deduct up to $4000 as higher education expense. However, it should be the case that the government provide students extra funding drawn from tax dollars. There should of course be restrictions placed on this - there is no reason tax dollars should be given to millionaires' children or for people to attend outrageously priced institutions. There are two main reasons tax dollars should be used in this way: It constitutes and investment in the future, and it will increase the base of educated people. In the United States, this message may be received with an amount of irritation. However, I'd like to point out that the resolution is not specific to the United States. The investment in the future is something that everyone constantly strives for. There is a definite correlation between the investment in education and the literacy rates and success of a country. Consider that in the UK, a child is endowed with a monetary amount upon birth that matures and where the receipt of that money is contingent upon factors like graduating high school and clean criminal records. In much the same way, investing a portion of a country's income in money that is set aside for higher education makes perfect sense. As long as the tuition amount is reasonable, there is no reason why this cannot be done. In Spain, this is actually how it works. If you get into college, it's paid for by the government. When you want more of something (educated people), you incentivize it. The payment of tuition from tax dollars constitutes this incentive. If institutions of higher education maintain the same enrollment rates, but have ""free"" tuition, the applicant pool will be both larger AND of a higher caliber because you'll be getting students who otherwise could not afford to go to college actually applying. Institutions can take the best of the pool and increase both the size and quality of the American Populace. Now, my opponent will of course raise the question of how to pay for this. In Europe, where this is practiced already, taxes are much higher. Of course, the European nations tend to view education in more of a socialist light than the United States. Can a revenue neutral method be created in the US to implement this? Probably not. It's possible that changing Social Security tax to an Education Tax may help the problem, but in the end, taxes would need to go up. At the heart of this issue is the notion of socialization of some programs. In a society where this is acceptable, this is a perfectly sound notion and has been implemented in a variety of countries already. However, in a society like in the US, this is not extraordinarily feasible without an increase in taxes. I'd like to suggest that the voters keep in mind that this is not about the US specifically. However, cases show that the education rates of other countries that DO practice this are higher than that of the United States. Coincidence? Perhaps not. I urge you to support the idea, if not its implementation, for it is a wonderful idea given a society that is willing to accept it. I believe Plato held the idea that education was paramount in creating a good and just society. Improving the end product of that education creates a better and more just society. I urge you to side Pro."	PRO	99
99	S99e6abf2-A31dacb50	What to study in college & why? [Career Challenge]	"Salutations to all, I will be scratching the surface of this topic. My later arguments will progress further in detail. I would like to thank my opponent for his participation. Hopefully, as viewers, I will persuade you in my favor. I would first like to mention that I will branch off of the idea of those who desire to attend college. If my opponent would like to go an untraditional route, that is perfectly fine. Every individual that hits adulthood would have to decide what they will become throughout life. It is in my opinion, that preparation for college is the best route. As I stated in round one, I will list at least six study fields and at least one career path branched off each one. There is no current ranking order for this list. IT IS HIGHLY RECOMMENDED FOR VIEWERS TO CHECK CITED SOURCES FOR FURTHER CAREER RESEARCH! Study Field 1#: Architecture & Engineering ~ Ex. Aerospace Engineers A love for mathematics is necessary. A bachelor""s in Aerospace Engineering is required, along with the love for aviation. Average Salary: $104,000 Study Field2#: Management ~ Ex. Financial Managers It is a must to have a bachelor""s degree in one of these categories: Finance, accounting, economics, or business administration. If you love managing money, this is your ideal career. Average Salary: $110,000 Study Field 3#: Education, Training, & Library ~ Ex. Special Education Teacher A bachelor""s degree in Education and a teacher""s license is a must. Those who love to help other learn will find this field satisfying. Average Salary: $55,000 Study Field 4#: Healthcare ~ Ex. Massage Therapist Receiving a certificate in Massage Therapy is required. Those who like to help reduce stress in people""s lives will love this field. Average Salary: $36,000 Study Field 5#: Life, Physical, & Social Science ~ Ex. Medical Scientists A person needs a high level of education that requires a PH.D. or a M.D. This field is for the strong-willed helpers to society. Average Salary: $77,000 Study Field 6#: Protective Service ~ Ex. Police & Detectives Some college education is highly recommended, and one must attend an agency""s training academy. To get at least an associate in criminal justice will strengthen your job prospects in this field. Average Salary: $56,000 Study Field 7#: Media & Communication ~ Ex. Writers & Authors Although a degree isn't required for a writer, a bachelor""s degree will sharpen your literary skills. Majoring in English, journalism, or communications are considered the typical majors in this section. Average Salary: $56,000 These 7 fields, along with examples, are my consideration as excellent studies in college. I will elaborate more in the next round. Again, I will like to say that you should check out these sites for more information. I ALSO RECOMMEND YOU TAKE CARL JUNG""S PERSONALITY TEST FOR A FAIRLY ACCURATE READING: CHECK CITED SOURCES! Cited Sources: http://bls.gov... ~ Government site about all occupations http://www.humanmetrics.com... ~ 9/10 accuracy for this personality test, trust me."	CON	100
100	Se6573295-A43f6ec37	The electoral college ought to be abolished.	"It is a pleasure debating with you. According to your argument the electoral colleges is a system unpopular with the American people. The evidence you had supporting this was ""Per Gallup 16, only 47% of Americans support the electoral college system."" However, the electoral colleges are swiftly gaining the public trust. Earlier only 35% of the people trusted the electoral college but now that number rose to 47%. http://news.gallup.com... This indicates that people are beginning to see the electoral colleges as the fair and just system it is. You stated that under the electoral college, some peoples votes are worth more than others. Let us examine the two states you used as examples in your argument. California has an estimated population of 39,535,653 people [https://www.census.gov...] and a total of 55 electoral votes. Wyoming has an estimated population of 579,315 people [https://www.census.gov...] and 3 elector votes. You argued that the votes in Wyoming are worth more than the votes in California under the electoral college. I wish to make two things clear: 1. California is still a state with an outstanding amount of electoral votes 2. Wyoming's voters, compared to those in California would be disregarded in a first past the post voting system on the national scale. For example, if all of Wyoming voted for democrats and half of California voted republican then the republican candidate will be in the lead and this will be unfair to those in Wyoming. So a popular vote system would still be unfair. You said that in those instances where the popular votes lost, a republican candidate was the victor and that this system possesses ""bias against democrats"" but their were many instances were democrats won the elections. Bias would mean that the system would not allow the democratic candidates to win at all. Barack Obama won the election against Mitt Romney when it came to both popular and electoral votes. As far as unfair goes this proves nothing. The electoral colleges allows both candidates an equal shot at winning the elections. Let us look at one of those instances. In the 2016 elections President Trump won the electoral votes by flipping states. Trump also had more states under his influence than Clinton did. https://www.cnbc.com... Voter fraud is much harder to commit with the electoral college system since it requires some very difficult steps. Steps which candidates wouldn't bother to waste time and money on. These steps are described in the following: ""First, at the national level, the election needs to be close enough that altering the results in only one or two states would change the outcome. Second, the margins in those contested states must also be very close. Such elections are fairly rare. The election of 2000 was one such election: Florida could have changed the outcome, and the margin in that state was vanishingly small. A third criterion may be the hardest to meet. Assuming the election is close, dishonest actors must be able to predict which state (or states) will be close enough to influence the final results."" [ http://dailysignal.com...] You said I had not specified how a democratic election is unfair and for this I am sorry. So let us assume that a candidate in a country where the popular votes decide the winner says that the teachers of that country ( who are paid an incredibly low salary) must have a pay cut of 50%. 2/3 of the population are pro-business and 1/3 pro-labor. The candidate wins the election and enacts the policy. It is fair by majority but unfair to minority and that is the system that you promote. If the will of the people is such that ( even though it is fulfilled by democratic means ) it negatively affects others, how can it be fair? An electoral colleges system takes into consideration the people by having politically experienced electors decide what is right or wrong for the country. Remember these electors are chosen by the people. You claim that democrats know they cannot win Texas which is why they keep their distance from the state. But the electors coming from Texas (who are republican) are voted in by the people. This can only happen if the people vote republican. So your argument that in a popular vote the democrats would win Texas has no foundation."	CON	101
101	S1901e66f-A16316707	The Electoral College	Defence C1: Regional Differences The point of the electoral college is to give these small states, like Kansas, representation. Con goes into an argument about how there are less people to one vote in Wyoming than in California. This is the point of the electoral college, by giving these states representation their needs can be heard. Con claims, “This is a clear violation of the democratic notion of equal influence.” The electoral college is, in nature, undemocratic. If it was then our election would be decided by popular vote. Each electorate is elected by the people of his region, they then vote for the president. This is similar to the Senate, each state gets two senators even though states have different population. Does this not also violate “the democratic notion of equal influence”? We are a Liberal democracy, but we are also a constitutional federal republic(1). Certain parts of the government, including the senate and the electoral college, are inherently undemocratic. We do this so the issues in small states will not be dwarfed by the issues in other larger states. This originates back to the creation of this country’s legislature. In Con’s specific example of Wyoming and California he points out how votes in Wyoming are worth more. But california has 54 votes so it is very unlikely that the issue of California will be dwarfed by issues of Wyoming. Con does claim that states that are “solid”, like his home states of Kansas, are “ ignored by candidates in the General election because they know there is no need to campaign for these electoral votes.” During her campaign, Hillary clinton hosted a rally in Kansas City(2). Kansas was not ignored by Hillary. Trump hosted a rally in California, another “solid state”(3). C2: Moderate Candidates This year's election was an outlier among many, only in five elections has a person one the popular vote but not won an election(4). Besides the 2000 election, the last time this happened was in 1888. In the electoral college system battleground states are very important. There is a more even amount of democrats and republicans in these states. The election in florida this year was very close, Trump won by less than 2%(5). Because of this even distribution candidates have to try to appeal to every possible voter in the state to win. Their policies will have to appeal to the people of their party, but also to appeal to the people that do not affiliate to a party. Because of this they need to stand closer to the middle of the spectrum so they can appeal to more people. If you are closer to the middle of the spectrum you do receive more popular votes. For example, Obama was one of the more moderate candidates in the recent years, and he won the election(6). Clinton won the popular vote and she was much more moderate that Trump. On where candidate would campaign, Con claims “This is simply unrealistic as neither of these regions contains a majority of the US population”. This was not what I was trying to get at, let us look at an electoral college map of the 2012(we will be using this election because in this election Trump won without winning the popular vote) election(7). As you guys can see the democratic candidate, Obama, won states near the coast. He won California and the new england states. Meanwhile Romney won states in the south . If this was a popular vote system the democratic candidate would only try to appeal to the people of the coast because that is where the democratic majority is. Our democratic candidate would try to win over every democrat, so their policies would be far to the left. Similarly the republican candidate would have policies on the far right so he/she can win the votes in the states in the south because that is where his/her majority lies. C3 “Pure” Democracy My defence of this point ties with my defence of my first contention, but I will reiterate. There are part of our government that break the democratic ideal of equal representation. The senate is the key example, this is so the laws passed will not only benefit large states. Our government breaks this principle in order to protect the minority. C4 Efficiency Con claims “however, as the electors are already elected by a popular vote. Americans vote for the candidate of their choice already, however this vote is counted towards electors, not the candidate themselves.” which is simply wrong. If we have an election dispute of a certain elector it is easy to isolate the problem early in the election stage to a small area. If there is dispute of an election result in the electoral college system it is easy to isolate the problem. This was seen in florida in the 2000 election. The problem with the popular vote system is that if there is an election dispute the entire vote would have to be recounted. The electoral college is clearly more efficient than a popular vote. Rebuttals R1: Swing States I address swing states in the defence of my second contention, but I will reiterate. Con’s main problem with swing states is that candidates put more effort into these states and other states are “ignored”. In the last part of the defence of my first contention I showed that almost no state is effectively ignored. Trump had rallies in California and Maine, and Clinton had rallies in Kansas and Texas. Candidates do put more time into swing states, but it is not “at expense of the approximately 40 other states”. I have also defended how swing states make candidates more moderate in my second contention. R2: Influence I have addressed this point continuously throughout this round, and I feel that I am simply repeating myself now. To put it bluntly, our government does not follow the notion of equal influence so we can protect the minorities. This is advantageous because if we had equal influence the majority could dominate the minority and lead to oppression. R3 Limited choice The winner take all system is not written in law. For example in 1968 North Carolina had 13 electoral vote, 12 went republican and 1 went to the third party(8). The winner take all system is not part of the electoral college, and Nebraska and Maine do not follow this system. This is not a problem with the electoral college, just a problem on how states distribute their electoral votes. R3 Third Party If a third party had a majority then they would win states, the 1968 is also an example of this(9). Con’s point in this part of this debate is the winner take all nature, which I have pointed out is not a part of the electoral college. Citations 1.https://www.reference.com... 2.http://fox4kc.com... 3. 4.https://en.wikipedia.org... 5.http://www.politico.com... 6.https://www.washingtonpost.com... 7.http://www.270towin.com... 8.http://heavy.com...	PRO	102
102	S1901e6ad-A8b166f66	The Electoral College	"I would first like to thank you for accepting this debate. I hope we can both expand our horizons and know more about this topic. I will now start with why the electoral college is bad. Since we share the burden of proof, you also have to make your arguments, so try not to do rebuttals until round 3. When I say ""large state"" or ""small state,"" I'm referring to the population. I'm also going to refer to DC as a state for simplicity. Since 49 of the 51 states use the winner take all approach, and the different approach of Maine and Nebraska realistically cause a deviation of at most 1 electoral vote in each direction had they been winner take all, I'm going to go over the issues of the winner take all approach. Here's a quick overview of how the electoral college basically works. By that I mean that the following explanation isn't how the electoral college technically works, it's what the way the system functions right now does. Presidential elections are split into 51 statewide elections. In almost all of them (49 of them), the candidate who wins a plurality in that state wins all of their electoral votes, and a candidate with at least 270 votes (out of 538 total) wins the election. However, many electors are not forced to vote for the winner of their state. States start out with two electoral votes, and electoral votes are added on proportional to population, meaning that smaller states get proportionally more representation than larger ones. As of 2010, 710,000 people equated to one additional electoral vote. The number of electoral votes a state has is and the population to electoral vote ratio is updated every 10 years in the census. The first issue of the electoral college is that it gives small states more power. The divide is not between small and large states; for example, DC and California are relatively similar, despite one being the largest state and one being the third smallest. States are arbitrary boundaries; someone living on the Eastern edge of New York shouldn't get less power than someone 50 miles East in Vermont. Voters in smaller states getting more power is therefore unjustified. Another issue with the electoral college is that it is inaccurate. The electoral college runs into rounding errors and is slow to update how many electoral votes each state gets. Take Wyoming and Montana. Montana has nearly twice as many people as Wyoming does (75% more), and yet it has the same amount of electoral votes that Wyoming does. On the other hand, Rhode Island has almost exactly as many people as Montana does (just 6% more), yet it has four electoral votes to Montana's three. Why? Because of rounding errors. Wyoming's population is on the low end for 3 electoral votes, while Montana's population is almost high enough to qualify for four electoral votes. However, Montana only gets three because it is just short (it deserves 3.4 electoral votes) and so rounds down to three. Conversely, Rhode Island has just enough population (it deserves 3.5 electoral votes) for its electoral vote count to round up. There is no reason states should get penalized for being just short of qualifying for an additional electoral vote and rewarded for barely having enough population to get the extra electoral vote. This leads to unfair situations where two states have nearly the same population but one gets more power than the other. https://en.wikipedia.org... Rounding isn't the electoral college's only inaccuracy. Since electoral votes are updated every 10 years, any change in population since then is not accounted for. This can lead to seriously unfair situations. Take Michigan and North Carolina. Michigan has one more electoral vote than North Carolina, or 7% more representation. However, Michigan has 30,000 less people. The reason for this is that at the time that electoral votes were reallocated, Michigan had more people than North Carolina. However, North Carolina then increased in population, meaning that there were more voters, but the electoral college had to wait until 2020 to give North Carolina increased representation. https://en.wikipedia.org... Another issue with the electoral college is that it bases itself off of population rather than voters. This was used by Southern Democrats. States in the South had inflated population counts due to slaves counting as 3/5 of a person, but they couldn't vote. This meant that Southern whites had more representation than they deserved. This isn't as much of an issue now, but it does not logically make sense. If you live in a state but don't vote, you increase the number of electoral votes a state has despite not voting. The most problematic feature of the electoral college is that (in most states) it uses a winner-take-all system. This is a serious problem for a multitude of reasons. First of all, it means that winning by a thousand votes is as good as winning by two million. The two million extra votes count for nothing, so those voters' voices are ignored. However, in reality, those two million voters really do matter. Why should they be ignored? This brings us to the second point. A winner take all system creates safe states and swing states. Safe states are states that are almost guaranteed to vote for one party. These states comprise 63-69% of the population, depending on how safe a safe state has to be. Since these states are safe, no candidate needs to campaign in them; no matter how hard you try, your efforts won't flip the results. Instead, candidates fight for swing states, which are states that could vote either way. Because you only need to win by a plurality, candidates want to win a lot of swing states by just enough to be awarded all of the electoral votes. This is quite similar to my first point; just because you live in a different place does not mean your vote should count more or less. Because candidates only need to campaign in swing states, they only need the vote of 1/3 of the country; their win in their safe states is guaranteed. In fact, 57% of all campaign events in 2016 took place in just four states, Florida, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, and Ohio. 2016 isn't a fluke. In fact, 2012 was worse. 70% of all campaign events took place in four states, Florida, Iowa, Virginia, and Ohio. If you look a little deeper, you'll find that in 2016, Florida, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Virginia, Michigan, Iowa, New Hampshire, Colorado, Wisconsin, and Arizona received at least four campaign events, and together comprise of 94% of all campaign events. In 2012, the list was the same except without Arizona and Michigan. The same story goes for money. In 2012, the only states to get at least a million in TV ad spending were the ones within 3% of the national margin. The ones within 2% all got at least 30 million. The swing states consistently get nearly all of the attention in presidential elections. The electoral college disenfranchises 2/3, or a majority, of the population. Their vote counts for nothing when deciding on a president that will affect them all. http://www.nationalpopularvote.com... http://www.nationalpopularvote.com... This issue is not just limited to presidential elections. Swing states get favorable treatment even when a president is in office. ""[They] receive 7% more federal grants than spectator states, twice as many presidential disaster declarations, more Superfund enforcement exemptions, and more No Child Left Behind law exemptions."" http://www.nationalpopularvote.com... This next flaw is really just a consequence of winner takes all and small states having more power. Five times in history, or in 9% of our presidential elections, the winner of the electoral college did not win the popular vote. (I'm including 1824 because that was decided by the tiebreaking mechanism, which is part of the system we are debating.) The president serves the people, not a specific set of states. The final flaw is the fact that the electoral college is susceptible to the spoiler effect. This means that if a third party runs, they hurt whomever they are closest to politically. This means that third party candidates can distort the result of an election by drawing votes away from the actual opinion of the vote base. This also means that many supporters of third parties will instead vote for the primary candidates, leading to a two party system that limits choices. Just as a reminder, your post should be about the benefits of the electoral college. Counterarguments come in round 3."	CON	103
103	Se6a1eebb-Aaf8ecac9	Abolish the Electoral College	"Con begins by saying that 2 of each state's electors come from state senators, so two of those electoral votes are justified. Just because each state automatically gets 2 senate representative votes doesn't mean this addresses any of the other problems with the electoral college though. For example if those 2 senators are Democrat and you are Republican, they do not represent your personal vote. Con does not deny the value of your vote depends on which state you live in. He says that by changing this standard, we would ignore a hefty chunk of the nation's population. But if you implemented a different standard (for example, the popular vote) then everybody's vote counts the same, and nobody in the population's vote is not counted or worth any less. Con says you get 1 elector per 770K people, but Wyoming has one elector for every 177,556 people and Texas has one elector for about every 715,499. Once again this means the people of Wyoming have their vote count almost 4x as much as a Texan's vote. This is not justified and Con says the alternatives would ignore a hefty chunk of the population, when really this standard provides unfair weighing that values each citizen's vote differently based on the state they live in (population). Con says that majority rules, so it's justified that your vote only counts if you are in your state's majority. He says you can move if you want to be part of the majority. It's not fair or reasonable to expect people to move so their vote matters, especially when there are alternatives. This would be bad for diversity. People who are in the minority within their small area (state) still deserve to have their voice's heard, but the electoral college renders their vote useless if other people from their state drown them out. This is ironic in a system that claims to value minority rights. http://www.nytimes.com... Con says ""majority rules"" but I've explained in the last round how someone with a minority of votes could win through the electoral college. It's not likely but demonstrates how math games determine the outcome of elections. Sometimes politicians ignore entire states while campaigning because they think it is useless to gain support there. And citizens don't bother voting in those states where they know their vote doesn't count, because they do not align with the majority. http://reason.com... Con says that without an electoral college, you would have 12 people running for president. Actually we already have 16 people running for president now even with the electoral college. http://www.politics1.com... Con doesn't know about these other people, because the electoral college encourages a two-party system that does not allow for choice or variety. A direct popular election would make it easier for third-party candidates to succeed. This is not a bad thing. Americans are diverse and we cannot pigeonhole our broad ideologies into 2 categories that most of us do not fit neatly into. Most of the time, we are stuck choosing between the ""lesser evil"" instead of someone who really represents our views. People are not satisfied with the Democrat and Republican status quo, because major political parties play partisan politics and put the party first (individual politician's success) instead of the country's values or the best candidate from the party. R03;Americans are getting frustrated with the political process and want more influence, not less. More than 65% of citizens are dissatisfied with the way the system works. http://www.gallup.com... So Con tells us the way things work, and I am saying they should be changed. Most Americans agree. Also Con presented the example of a situation where 12 candidates ran for president, and the person with the majority of votes might still be unpopular (say only getting 1/5 of the popular vote). Well voters might choose to consolidate their vote anyway. For example Bernie Sanders might be running for president as an Independent, which is upsetting Democrats who think lost votes that go to Sanders instead of Clinton will make Trump win. We can assume that people would be strategic about their voting or candidacy under any system. Another thing is that politicians can get ahead today even without having a lot of support, because people go with the ""lesser evil"" vote like I said. A lot of Republicans hate Trump but will vote for him because they prefer Trump to a liberal. It doesn't mean they actually like Trump. We have had unpopular presidents before despite the electoral college, and even the votes people cast doesn't mean they actually support that person, but just think they are the least evil. Con says the popular vote system is the only alternative, but this is not true. In addition to the popular vote (making each citizen's vote count once) there have been other proposals for reform or abolition of the electoral college, including the Bayh""Celler Constitutional amendment, Every Vote Counts amendment, and National Popular Vote Interstate Compact. https://en.wikipedia.org...(United_States) ""There have been more proposals for constitutional amendments to change the electoral college than on any other subject. They include: A direct popular vote, with a runoff between the top two finishers if no candidate receives 40 percent of the vote. A district plan awarding two electoral votes to state's popular vote leader and the others to the winner in each congressional district. A proportional method dividing each state's electoral vote to mirror its popular vote, which would do away with the winner-take-all nature of counting electoral votes. Majority preference voting, in which voters rank their preferences; if no candidate received more than 50 percent, the bottom vote-getter would be eliminated and the second choices of those voters would be redistributed, repeating the process until someone had more than 50 percent. Another proposal would keep the electoral college in place, but add another 102 electoral votes (two for each state and the District of Columbia) and award all of the bonus votes to the national popular vote winner."" Source: Jim Eskin, ""Electoral College a Ticking Time Bomb,"" Dallas Morning News, November 10, 2000."	PRO	104
104	S738233f8-A3e86ba0	Should All students after 2035 be required go to college by the law	"i want to thank my opponent for answering back in reasonable time The subject was NOT changed, i also did not result to name call such as saying ""worming out"" and you cant win debate by not making a point. In round 2 i was making the point that if the law shouldnt jump to say that it is mandatory to go to College, but it should be mandatory to finish high school, since you can drop out at 16 legally. More the point is that if we have such a hard time pushing people to finish high school than why should we push them harder to go to college. If they made it mandatory to go to college than the standard of the education would be compromised because the only goal would be to get people out of college to conform to the law and not challenge people academics. Do you really want a doctor that was pushed through college because of a law not because of there love for the understanding of there bodies. Its Ludacris to push people to do something they dont want to do. As you see my opponent is trying to attack me but is not making a point, so this is why i urge for a CON vote"	CON	105
105	S5e977bfe-A449e3ae5	Public Education is Better for Society than Private Education	"Ok, sorry for the confusion with sources two and three in my last argument. Here they are: (2) http://nces.ed.gov... (3) http://eagnews.org... I'm sorry for that confusion, there was probably an issue when transfering it from text to rich text. These sources are not gonna be used for this part in the debate directly, so i'll just continue my numbers starting at four starting here. There are many issues with your argument, and I will point those out. First off, you said: ""My opponent""s source cites that there are 13% of people whose income are over $750 000 who attend private schools."" If you look at the chart, it shows that about 13% of families with an income of $75,000 send their kids to private schools, so that throws your statistics off a bit. Also, pro states that richer students tend to do better than poorer students. That is true, but one factor could be that more richer kids go to private schools than poorer kids, and that creates a circular argument. Also, the rich see their parent's success in life, and they aspire to that. The poor, who don't see that success from their parents, may not know what it feels like to succeed. Pro says ""Again, I will reiterate that generally, the pay and welfare many public school teachers receive is greater than private school teachers."" Yes, that is true. But the reason for that is not quality difference. Private schools have less jobs to fill (4) and because of the law of supply and demand, this means there will be naturally lower pay. They don't have as many regulations, and therefore they can charge less. Also, a teacher that gets paid less can actually be better because of the reason they're doing it. They aren't doing it as much for the moeny, but they actually care about their kids, and therefore they are willing to take less money to do their job (4). As I also said, teachers who teach at a religious school already have a connection with the kids. The reason private school teachers get paid less is not because they are worse, it's because they are willing to take less money to do their job the way that they think it should be done. Also, private schools look for different things in teachers. For example, let's say a school is looking for a spanish teacher. A public school would generally hire someone with an education degree and a minor in spanish. They wouldn't know the spanish language as well, but they would be able to handle a 35-40 kid classroom that some public schools have more effectively. A private school generally goes for a teacher with a major in spanish and a minor in possibly literature. That teacher would be far more equipped with the ability to teach spanish, but they wouldn't have to handle the 35-40 kid class because that doesn't happen in a private school. Therefore, the private school mindset in hiring teachers would naturally generate teachers that do the real job of a teacher. That job is teaching kids, and a public school would get teachers that sometimes have to do some babysitting of the kids (5). Pro said: ""Thus it cannot be argued that students do better on the SAT are better academically than those who do not."" If that's the case, then did you look at the chart I gave based on proficiency in different subjects? The private school kids did a lot better. We are not debating that only one is good for society. Read the title to the debate. It says ""Public Education is Better for Society than Private Education"". We are debating whether that statement is true or not. I think private schools are needed in society and are better than public schools, but I'm not arguing to abolish public schools. Like I've said, private schools give the flexibility to send a kid to a situation with less kids which gives him or her more attention from the teacher. Private schools also have more parent involvement and less regulations because they are private (6). It's like going to a local diner or going to McDonalds. McDonalds is going to be cheaper, but the local diner is probably going to have better food, shorter lines, and it's going to be a more friendly atmosphere. In the same way, public schools are cheaper, but they have less teacher attention to each student, they have bigger class sizes, and they have more bullying and teasing. Some parents just don't want their kids in the public school atmosphere and private schools give them the options. The parent involvement factor is actually a big issue in public schools. 25% of public school teachers said that the lack of parent involvement is an issue at their school, and for private schools this was 4% (7). Principals at public schools were asked the same thing, and parent involvement was almost as big of an issue at the school as poverty (14.5% versus 14.9%). There's much more weapon possession, alchohal use, and drug use at public schools, and some parents just want their kids out of that atmosphere, and their willing to pay big money to do so. A reason that private school parents are so involved is because they do pay for the school, and if their kids aren't doing the best they can, then it's not worth it. I'd predict that if two families were compared, this would be shown. If one family sent their kids to a private school, those kids would be more prepared for college because the parents would feel obligated to get involved, the kid would feel guilted into working harder because of how much of a sacrifice it is to go there, and the public school kid wouldn't be as prepared for college. Private schools provide that kind of benefit. (4) http://www.theatlantic.com... (5) http://privateschool.about.com... (6) http://www.babycenter.com... (7) http://nces.ed.gov..."	CON	106
106	Sf6f74b-Aef3ee16f	The Electoral College is Misrepresentative	"I thank my opponent for his response. My opponent is attempting to argue something completely absurd. The resolution clearly states that we are discussing the following issue: ""The Electoral College is Misrepresentative"" I am arguing on the CON side, the electoral college is *not* misrepresentative of the current system of electing a president to office. The current system of electing a president to office is via electoral college. Therefore, to say that the electoral college misrepresents itself is to suggest that it is in some way muddy, ambiguous, or erroneous in its calculations. I have shown that this simply is not the case. http://www.howstuffworks.com... While I agree that there was a slight technical difficulty in the 2000 election, it was only because the election was so tight. In addition, a conclusion was reached and the results were clear: The electoral votes were spelled out clear as day. The votes were tallied according to state and voila, you have a very clear-cut picture of how the electoral college is represented. And here is the list of electoral votes for the 2000 election, crystal clear and in black and white. http://www.archives.gov... As you can see, there is no misrepresentation. Each electoral vote was tallied and accounted for, no electoral vote went missing, and no electoral vote was counted twice. There are no errors, no misrepresentations. My opponent only has one counterargument, which is more a question than a counterargument: ""How can the electoral college be representative of the American people when it fails to elect the President more Americans voted for?"" The answer to this question is painfully obvious. Our method of choosing a president is based on the electoral college, not on the popular vote. This is common knowledge. So as an obvious conclusion, the Electoral college is representative of the American election of a president because it is THE METHOD by which we elect a president. My opponent has not offered any other counterargument and I have upheld my burden. I await my opponent's final response and will conclude. Thank you."	CON	107
107	Sead6ade4-A27624698	Fraternities can rob women of their education.	"Caitlin Flanagan. ""Shutter Fraternities for Young Women's Good."" Wall Street Journal. April 23rd, 2011: ""Can the mere presence of slur-chanting fraternity men really create an environment that robs young women of equal opportunity to education? Yes, it can. [...] My fourth night at school, I went with some friends to Rugby Road, where the fraternity houses are located. [...] they seemed sinister, to stand for male power at its most malevolent and institutionally condoned. I remember standing there thinking I'd made a terrible mistake. It wasn't worth it, I decided. The next day I withdrew from the university. [...] I went back in the spring, and while few things have had as a profound an effect on my life as my UVA education, my deep mistrust of the fraternities limited the ways I engaged in life on campus and almost robbed me of the education itself. If you want to improve women's lives on campus, if you want to give them a fair shot at living and learning as freely as men, the first thing you could do is close down the fraternities."""	PRO	108
108	Sf3328136-A78abf703	Free tuition for college students through government taxation should be supported.	">>""Seeing that the average cost of tuition for a public college in the US (over four years) was approximately $22,000 in the '05-'06 school year... Now, in the same year, the cost of tuition over four years at a private college was about $85,000, in which case my opponent would be right"" Try again.... using the same source you provided, the cost of public universities is $48,508 (4 x 12,127) and private is $116,104 (4 x 259,026) - your figures are for tuition only, however I did state that COLLEGE was the investment and the ""purchase"" and that includes all costs. You don't purchase just the chassis of a car (which would theoretically drive...)- you purchase the whole thing. So yes, the cost of college IS more than a brand new car, and private university possibly more than a small house. >>""If you work for most of your life and then retire, no matter what your income, you are entitled to a retirement check. True, you may not need it, but you get it."" I pay social security tax. There's no way I'm going to get that money back when I retire, even if I do take the checks. There's simply not enough money in the budget to give me it back dollar for dollar. >>""Also, a ""basis"" for education can be better provided by private loans, which are readily available. If you are smart enough to be accepted to a university, you can get loans for tuition, leaving the government out completely (unless it is a government loan, which is fine - it is not ""free,"" it has to be repaid.)"" So you'd rather base college education on money you get, but have to pay back MORE later because of the interest, instead of money you pay gradually and don't have to pay back at all. Wonderful thesis. >>""But by law they are equal in the eyes of the government."" Perhaps you're unfamiliar with Affirmative Action. >>""Excellent, MORE taxes. This sounds like more of a benefit to the federal government than to any individual. So your point here is that it would be worthwhile to the government."" More taxes = more money to put into the college tuition proposition. I'm pointing out that after the initial investment, this program can possibly pay for itself. >>""competence is an independent quality completely - arguably something that cannot be taught, no matter who is teaching or for how much money they are teaching for."" Incorrect - consider - are you going to be competent at algebra if you've been taught for five minutes or for an entire semester? Obviously there's a relationship between input and competency, assuming the concept is understood. >>""other countries outspend the US as they are trying to rise in the international community, whereas one might say the US has more of a ""We're already there"" kind of attitude. Also, the physics Olympiad is a competition between high school students. Relevance to issue at hand: none."" They are actually getting somewhere with that - it's estimated that China will eclipse the US relatively soon as the world hegemony. As for the physics Olympiad... where do high school students go after high school? COLLEGE. Unless they magically change the caliber of their education over the summer, they remain relevant as an example of why our ENTIRE education system needs more monetary input. >>""Indeed those are American philosophies. However, they are relevant as regards the non-socialist views and policies of the US government and a probable majority of Americans. Also, by the same token, we might call socialism a ""European philosophy,"""" Well you've basically said that both philosophies are irrelevant when applied as belonging to a certain country. However, the fundamental philosophies are still important... more on this later. >>""The slots will be filled, and then we will have a large number of unemployed or underemployed overqualified college graduates."" More educated people = more human capital = much greater propensity for businesses to arise. I believe there would be a huge economic growth if the number of educated and motivated persons was increased. >>""If their college students are of ""higher caliber on average,"" then it logically follows that either they are smarter, or that their primary and secondary schools are better than those in the US."" Exactly - and if their current and exiting college students are of a higher caliber than our current and exiting students.. what's that say about our TERTIARY education systems? >>""education is not politics."" The debate about financing it certainly is. >>""I cannot speak on behalf of the hypocrisy of the US government."" Thank you for conceding that the lack of college funding is hypocrisy - the negative connotation of hypocrisy indicates you believe college should be provided as well. >>""Pay no mind. Argument from authority or another ""European philosophy."""" I'm not even sure what this means... it was your suggestion to reread The Republic... American philosophy is derived from European philosophy... ""Besides being unfair (not new but true), implementation would be a nightmare, as PRO admits. On top of that, college costs rise between 5 and 10 percent each year, meaning annual tax +"" Indeed it would - but than again, any change in the status quo would be a nightmare in the US. Our government system VASTLY favors the status quo. Implementation isn't really the issue at hand either... As for the increase in tax, after a few years, this would balance out as there are more (higher) taxpayers and the cost of keeping an institution open decreases as enrollment goes up - the increase in income from one student vastly outweighs the added cost of him/her attending the institution. ********************************************** One of the things that has been consistently brought up is the idea of socialization and the unfairness of it. Properly implemented, socialization of education would INCREASE the fairness of the process. That's the idea behind socialization - equality of outcome. However, tempering equality of outcome with equality of opportunity will yield a system wherein everyone has the equal opportunity to go to college, and the equal outcome of a (possible) college degree. Thus, the idea stands as a beneficial one in any society that emphasizes equality of outcome. Currently, this is not the United States. But the fact remains that the US is indeed falling behind countries that do emphasize this. Consider the following scenario. There is a rich man and a poor man both of the same educational caliber, and both wish to go to college. They both pay the same tax RATE (say 10% - outrageous, I know...) to the education tax. Prior to any funding being distributed, there is INequality of opportunity - the rich man could go if he wanted to - AND INequality of outcome - only the rich man can graduate. Redistribution of the education tax, all else remaining equal will create equality of both opportunity and outcome - both CAN go to college and both CAN graduate. Is it unfair that the rich person pay taxes that help the poor man go to school? Perhaps, but consider the alternative - the poor man does not go to school, and in the end, makes 75% less than the rich man and works for him. Surely that is more unfair than if the poor man can work WITH the rich man. Are we more concerned with maintaining inequality across the board, or with creating equality at the cost of the ""fairness"" of the system? There will always be an unfair component in any system (assuming the poor man isn't poor because of his own vices). Maintaining multiple inequalities is akin to lining up a group of men with the requirement of shooting ONE of them, and then shooting all the ones with brown hair to be ""fair."" An excellent debate on a difficult topic. Read and vote... Thanks to brittwaller for a good debate!"	PRO	109
109	S1901e6ad-Aa23b6d87	The Electoral College	In this debate, I will argue that the way the electoral college currently works is not a good way to elect the president. I would prefer to debate with someone genuinely supportive of the electoral college to better understand both points of view. Please keep the debate civilized and on topic, so don't be partisan on other topics. The burden of proof is shared, meaning that I have to prove that the electoral college is bad, and you have to prove that it is good. Round 1 is going to be acceptance. Try to make your arguments in round 2, and further rounds are going to be rebuttals. Goodluck!	CON	110
110	S1901e66f-Af57a7941	The Electoral College	Response to Pro Contentions (Round 2) Pro Contention 1: Regional Differences The Pro claims that the Electoral college is good because it gives smaller states more representation, and makes candidates care about the issues in smaller states. The problem with this argument is that by giving smaller states more representation it gives them a disproportionate influence over the electoral college, as I mentioned in Contention 2. Wyoming is perhaps the most significant example of this. Wyoming has a population of 453,588 and has three electoral votes. This means there are 152,000 Wyomingites for each elector. California meanwhile has 29,760,021 residents and 54 electoral votes, or about 551,000 people per elector. This means that a single vote in Wyoming has 3.6 times more voting power than a vote in California (1). This is a clear violation of the democratic notion of equal influence. Additionally, most small states (including my home state of Kansas) are considered “solid states”, and are therefore ignored by candidates in the General election because they know there is no need to campaign for these electoral votes. Pro Contention 2: Better Candidates The Pro claims that the electoral college forces candidates to move to the center of the political spectrum, however, he never demonstrates why this is, only claims that they need to appeal to voters in swing states. The problem with this is that there is no evidence that candidates moderate their tone because of the electoral college. In the 2016 election, the majority of swing states went to Donald Drumpf, who was in no way a “moderate” candidate. Candidates work to win voters over to their side through rhetoric, media, advertising and campaigning. If what the Pro says is accurate, candidates would not need to convince voters at all. The Pro also claims that Democrats would campaign only on the coast (referring to the West Coast and the Northeast), and Republicans in the South, if the Electoral college were to be abolished. This is simply unrealistic as neither of these regions contains a majority of the US population (2), and partisan divides exist within these states, and thus no candidate could acquire the support needed to win the presidency. Pro Contention 3: “Pure” Democracy The Pro claims the US is not a democracy, however, this is simply untrue. While the US is not a DIRECT democracy, in which ALL laws are decided by direct vote rather than by representative bodies, the United States is a democratic republic, which is a form of representative democracy (3). Therefore electing the president in a way which accurately represents the views of the electorate (such as the ways I proposed in the Solutions section in Round 2) should be preferred to the undemocratic electoral college, which violates basic democratic principles (as previously discussed). The Pro further claims that direct democracy leads to anarchy, however this is not in any way relevant to this debate as we are not debating the abolition of all representative institutions, only the direct election of the president, something which is already done in many other countries and is done with nearly every other elected office in the US. Pro Contention 4: Efficiency In this contention, the Pro alleges that having a popular vote is inefficient and “messy” and thus it is a bad idea. This argument is illogical, however, as the electors are already elected by a popular vote. Americans vote for the candidate of their choice already, however this vote is counted towards electors, not the candidate themselves. Defense of My Arguments Contention 1: Swing States The Pro argues that the creation of swing states is a good thing because it increases voter turnout, voter education and somehow makes candidates more moderate (a point I addressed earlier this round). None of these arguments however actually address the problem with swing states that I pointed out in my argument. Moreover, the Pro concedes that the votes in these states are more impactful than in states like Kansas, and this only proves my second contention, that this gives some voters more influence than others, which is a violation of the democratic principle of equality. Contention 2: Inequality of influence The Pro says that the inequality of influence cannot be a bad thing because it increases voter turnout and education in some states and that since he does not see it as impacting voter turnout in other states it cannot be a bad thing. There are two main problems with this argument. First, this does not address in any way the actual argument being made, which was that the inequality of influence violates basic democratic principles. Secondly, the measurement of what is bad in this argument is how much influence a single vote has compared to another, not what turnout is. The Pro then again reiterates his argument about the US and Democracy, however, I addressed this in my response to his 3rd Contention. Contention 3: Limits Choices and Hurts Third Parties The Pro divides his response here into two sections, one titled “Solid States” and the other titled “3rd Party. The Pro first argues that “solid states are not as solid as people think”, citing his home state of Texas. While what the Pro says is true, it does not change the fact that the winner take all system, in which a candidate only needs a simple majority to win 100% of the electors. Even if the results in that state are close, this does not change the fact that one candidate got everything and the rest received nothing. This is the problem that I highlight in my argument, which goes mostly ignored in his response. He then claims that any reform will not benefit third parties as no third party received 5% of the vote in the last election. This does not address the point of my argument, which was that the winner take all nature of the electoral college discourages people from voting for third parties as people decide to vote for the candidate who is more likely to win a larger percentage of the vote in order to increase that candidate's chances of getting the electoral votes, rather than voting for their preferred candidate. The Pro does not address this point at all and thus it goes conceded. Sources 1. http://tech.mit.edu... 2. http://www.ipl.org... 3. https://www.washingtonpost.com...	CON	111
111	S717923bb-Ad5918b07	A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.	Worth First, we need to establish that the proverb “a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush” implies that the worth of these two things match. My opponent claims that something being worth the other does not equate to something being equal to the other. Worth : having a value of, or equal in value to, as in money. having property to the value or amount of: They are worth millions. [1] So we see that the proverb does imply that the bird in hand and bush are equal in value. If that was not meant to be the case, the proverb would read “a bird in the hand is worth more than two in the bush.” Gained Value Let’s move on to evaluate some other things in Con’s case. He says that my case was not fitting for the proverb because it is too limiting. Yet it is fitting, because the proverb gives clear guidelines in its structure to follow. You cannot assume that what you have risked will be significantly less or equal to what you might gain. This is because the proverb already tells us that there are two birds, rather than one bird, when the birds have been assigned any other values. My opponent says that we cannot be sure of the value of something until we have it. This is not necessarily the case. We can use our own judgment to know the value of something to come. For example, we can weigh a future job with our current job. When we go into the interview, we can get a feel for the type of boss. We can ask him how much the pay raise will be. We can ask what the job specifications and workload are. We can ask what the benefits, such as insurance coverage, will be. We can ask the longevity and security of the job. We can get a sense of the atmosphere by observing the current employees. So as you see, we get a pretty clear sense of what it is we are attempting to acquire. Therefore, based on our own ability to judge, we know when what we see is of higher value than what we might have at the time being. Just like we know two birds are in the bush when only one bird is in the hand. So what we see will be of greater value than what we currently have. Now the question is whether the risk of losing what we have outweighs what we could potentially gain. This is where my opponent falls short because he assumes that the odds of gaining something can be determined by a set value when this is never the case in life. Value of Risk In fact, when a person gives up everything they have to pursue something, the odds are highly in their favor that they will gain that thing. This is the power of going after what you want against the self-defeating compliance with sticking to what you know. When a person sets their mind on something and believes that they will gain it, it becomes their reality. [2] We also know that life contains an infinite amount of value, and anything we loose can be gained again. So the risk of losing what you have is generally not that great. If one is determined to have something, then the loss of other things are not important. Let’s go back to the job example. One will risk their current job to find one that is more suiting to what they want in life. This has a MUCH greater set of values because it makes one happier and more confident. With happiness about one’s career, there will be an exponential amount of further opportunities to be gained. Risking one thing to gain another opens the door for more things to be gained. Say they loose the job and don’t get the one they applied for either. Well, there are infinite amount of other opportunities to gain jobs. They weren’t happy with the job anyway. They might struggle for a while, and in the worse case, go homeless. It’s not as bad as you think it is when you have a goal that you want to reach. Finding shelter is as simple as finding a friend or finding an empty building. Finding food is a simple as knowing that it will be provided to you. With determination towards a pursuit, it is highly probably to be gained. On the other side, sticking to what one has when there is the chance for something greater does nothing but make them compliant and depressed. Compliancy decreases ones chance of success. Keep the door closed and you won’t go outside. Stay inside and you stay in darkness. Open the door though, and you walk outside. Walk outside and enjoy the light. Enjoy the light and you find yourself coming to bigger and better doors. So the question to you readers is, do you want to step up to the plate and go after what CAN and WILL be in your life, or do you want to be stuck in a box with no change and growth? 1. http://dictionary.reference.com... 2. http://www.successconsciousness.com...	CON	112
112	S1901e6eb-A59437727	The Electoral College	"Electoral College Power Per Vote It's indeed true that those in small states have greater voting power than those in big states. However, I would argue this is still absolutely justifiable, Because it forces presidential candidates to pay attention to the needs of small states just the same way as the senate. I give as an example the election of 2000. People like to focus on Florida as the great bellwether of this election, But people ignore aswell that it was the smaller states, Like West Virginia, A presumed democratic safe state, That decided the election nearly as much as Florida. Because Al Gore ignored the needs of this small state, Essentially, He threw under the bus what was thought to be a safe state, He lost the election. What the effect of the electoral college does is it makes candidates pay attention to states with smaller populations that they normally would have just ignored with a popular vote system. (I will go on to the swing vs safe states argument later if you're wondering about that. ) This system is only ridiculous and injustice in a democracy, Where, Essentially, The whole government is expected to be like the house of reps. 2. Well, I agree! As I said at the beginning, I still support minor reforms, And a reform in Congress like that which would affect the electoral college would be just fine aswell. The house of reps should be an efficient and accurate method of dividing folks by population, But when our population keeps on going up, And the seats don't, It causes issues. The electoral college should not be causing disparity in the votes its given by the house of reps. We are very advanced, Whatever inconvenience that would be caused by adding more representatives can be negated in one way or another. 3. Again, I support minor reforms. The winner takes all system absolutely IS majority rule. In that system, The minority of the state has absolutely no voice. This is why I support a reform where each house electoral vote is divided by popular margin, AKA in a state with 12 electoral votes, Where the candidate won 50%, To the others 40%, To 10% for a thirdparty, The 2 senate votes should be awarded to the winner, And the rest will be divided evenly, So 5-4-1. This negates the majority rule + voter turnout problem and frankly, There should've been some similar action done when the electoral college was founded. 4. The issue of the swing states: The margin reforms I proposed to the electoral college in number three would be pretty much the same way I'd tackle this issue. However, I would also argue a few things. Even without reform, The political climate is always changing. As recently as 1996, The map looked totally different than the year 2000. Like before, If those people in West Virginia just assumed ""were a safe state, I shouldnt vote"" than that would be their mistake and a vote wasted, They should always be voting. As recently as 2016, Maine, Minnesota, And to an extent Wisconsin, Michigan, And Pennsylvania, Were assumed to be democratic safe states. However, Trump won three of them and got in an incredibly close margin in another two. Yet another example of why the swing states are ALWAYS changing as the climate always changes, Small or large, And why you should always vote. Swing states are a very temporary thing I will add, Back in the day there was constantly landslides because we were a less polarized country. The whole reason for swing states is because of more polarization, Less people in a state leaning one way are willing to vote for the other candidate so their state remains very rigid. Is it not that in a very polarized nation based on the popular vote there would still only be a few places they could appeal to that would be moderate, And a large red and blue area besides it they would ignore? 5. This is an unlikely scenario, And indeed while these things could happen, They would be rare, We have seen in a numerous amount of elections that nothing like this has happened. Beyond that would it not be that my ""minor reforms"" would negate this? What the electoral college does is it forces presidential candidates to pay attention to the needs of small states, In the same way congress does, And, With no more than a reform where electoral votes are divided by popular vote margin, Thus preventing the majority rule it creates, It should be kept. It is indeed undemocratic, But we are not a democracy, And it is a necessary means of preserving our Republican form of government."	PRO	113
113	S1901e66f-A57b011ee	The Electoral College	C1: Regional Differences A. The electoral college is excellent in giving smaller states representation in an election. Without the electoral college smaller states would be irrelevant in an election, and candidates would ignore them. The electoral college lets the less populous states in the middle of our country get a voice in our country. B. For example, in 2012 a topic in the election was military bases, key issues in florida and south carolina. Without the electoral college this topic, along with many others, would be dwarfed by the issues that californians or new yorkers consider important. C. A big issue in the 2016 presidential election was police shootings and violence, which is a big problem in only a few states, but the electoral college forced this pressing issue to be acknowledged. The states where this is an issue has an electoral vote, and this vote causes the candidates to acknowledge this. D. The majority of this nation’s population in democratic party, and because of this the republican party would lose much of it’s power. This creates a president that is not receptive to the republican part of the population. C2: Better Candidates A. The electoral college creates better candidates that are more aware of the places in the united states. The create candidates that are more on the middle of the spectrum instead of the ends, which is what a popular vote would create. B. If we were under a popular vote democratic candidates could only focus on the costs, and the republican candidates could only focus on the south. This creates very extreme candidates that would not be responsive to the other part of our population. This, of course, is not an advantage because a part of the population would feel oppressed for 4 years or more. C. The electoral college leads to candidates being more moderate, which leads them to be more receptive to the population as a whole. This is good overall because the entire population would feel at least a little represented in the population, and none would feel completely ignored. C3: Pure Democracy is Not Advantageous A. The united state is not a democracy, we are a Federal Republic. A popular vote would be completely democratic, and that is simply not what the US is. The Electoral college is the perfect mix between democracy and a republic. B. A pure democracy leads quickly to anarchy. A group with a large population would rule the rest of the population, which leads to an oppressed minority. Oppression is never good, and almost always leads to conflict, as seen in Iran or in the American civil war. C. Our founding fathers were scared of a strong state that would create a dictatorship, the youngest child learns this from school. Lesser known was that they also fear anarchy, which they believed lead from democracy. The electoral college is part of the balance that they created. C4: Efficiency A. The electoral college rarely makes mistakes, and when it does the problems are easy to isolate and fix. A popular vote is messy, and because of this the result of the election would take longer to realise, and mistakes are very hard to fix. If the result may be flawed would necessarily have to have another election. Counting popular votes is very messy.	PRO	114
114	S54bdc9d5-Ab84f721f	College athletes should not be paid.	"I'd like to thank my opponent for his timely response. First I will defend my cases, and then I will refute my opponent's cases. My opponent failed to address the fact that there are students out there making a difference in the world that aren't getting paid, possibly because of lack of clarity in my first paragraph, so I will use this time to remind him of this fact. When I said that we would be putting too much of a value on sports rather than academics, it was meant to be taken many ways. First off, it means that we are putting too much value moral-wise on sports. Some kids would see college football and basketball players making money, playing the sports that they loved, and they would decide that they wanted to go to college to get paid to play sports. This would diminish the reason that students go to college... to learn. What about the kids that are getting degrees in neuroscience? Kids that will go on to research cures for cancer? THEY are the ones making a difference in the world. Sports are just for fun. Why should athletes be paid, but not the people that are making strides in science and other subjects? And, because you said that being an athlete is a full time job, I'd like to point out that so is being a student in many cases. My brother goes to The University of Pittsburgh, and he has an extremely rigorous schedule, and lots of student loans. His days are packed with classes, and 4 hour chemistry labs that can last from 6 to 10 at night. He, and many of his friends, could never get a part time job to make money on the side. I believe that paying athletes who spend all their time playing sports on basis of the fact that they can't get jobs isn't fair, because their academic counterparts have the same issue and wouldn't be receiving pay. Additionally, it's putting more value on sports money-wise. I will now also be clarifying what I meant with point B. One of the reasons that con contends that student athletes should be paid is that they bring in revenue to the school. When I said that one of my teachers ""brought in money,"" I was saying that as a result of her writing in the school newspaper, the school made revenue. I'm saying, that because a wide variety of people help the schools create revenue, would we pay every single one? It would be a difficult endeavor to track down every single person that made money for the school, but I believe it would be necessary in order to be fair to everyone. Another point in relation to athletes not being able to hold down a part time job is this. My opponent says that because a certain sport doesn't draw as much of an audience, that they shouldn't be paid as much. I say that this is extremely unfair. One of the main points my opponent uses in this debate is that athletes need the money because they will not be able to have a job because of how much time they spend in their sports. I contend that many athletes in OTHER sports that may not necessarily draw as big of an audience ALSO cannot have a part time job. Swimmers are allowed by the NCAA to practice in the pool for 20 hours each week. (1) This may not sound like that much, but I'd like to provide insight on what they actually do. Swimmers interval train, as you might know. They might do a 100 yard swim on 1:40. Because the swimming mentality is basically ""work as much as you can,"" swimmers will do those hundred yards in times of about one minute or so. Now, even though they have been in the water for 1:40, they treat it as only having swam for 1 minute of their allotted time. This allows them to spend ridiculous amounts of time in the pool each week. And that is not even counting the time in the weight room and gym that they might have to do OUTSIDE of practicing. I contend that because swimmers are spending just as much time as other athletes playing their sport, and can also not get a part-time job, they would also have to be paid for their work. My opponent's views are not exactly the same throughout his argument. First, he says that because the athletes make revenue for the school, that they should be paid. Now, he once again states that because they cannot hold part time jobs, that they should be paid. But like I said earlier, if an athlete is making money for the school, wouldn't they also be entitled to some of the money? Regardless of whether a high school athlete has a job or not, or would want one, if they make money for the school, it is the same situation as college. I'd like to apologize for the fact that I didn't cite my source for the ""90% of athletic departments lose money"" fact. Most colleges do not have the money to pay their athletes because their programs do not make money. (2) Once again, I apologize for not citing this article. As you can see, the writer got his information from a ""USA today story,"" which can be found at this link. (3) However, although I didn't cite it immediately, the information is still true. I use this next paragraph to make a statement pertaining to my opponent's paragraph where he called my $27,000 statistic into question. Although I was unable to find the original statistic in a study, I contend that it doesn't matter what the average college athlete receives. Because 90% of athletic departments lose money, it doesn't matter what Jane from Utah is getting in field hockey scholarship, because her athletic department is losing money and she wouldn't be paid anyway. All that matters is the sports that make money, mainly football, and basketball. According to the NCAA, ""the average scholarship [for division I basketball] at an in-state public school is worth $15,000/year. At an out-of-state public school, it""s worth $25,000/year. And at a private school, it""s worth $35,000/year or more."" (4) This statistic is even higher than the former, and I believe this would already constitute being paid for playing your sport. Additionally, I do not see any relevance of the statistic cited at the end of the paragraph. Why does it matter what percent of all people (athletes and non-athletes) receive athletic scholarships? We are talking solely about athletes in this debate, and that statistic doesn't reflect that parameter. I have now finished defending my arguments, so I will now refute my opponent's. I'd like to once again point out that the argument that players do everything for the college is flawed. Other athletes donate lots of time and wouldn't get paid in your scenario, and the people that do make revenue for the college (men's and women's basketball, football) already do get paid in athletic scholarships. I also don't see how it would be illegal to not pay student athletes. For one, it is legal because it is currently being done. I contend that because it is an extracurricular that the students are choosing to do, that they do not need to be paid for it. It is not wage fixing because it is not a job. I would also like my opponent to clarify how an illegal boycott is being created. It is not boycotting, it is simply a rule, and a good one that should be kept. I am now done refuting my opponents arguments, and have finished defending mine. I believe that all students that are making money for their school are on scholarship, and it would be unfair to pay students based on the audience they draw, because other athletes work just as hard. Additionally, they cannot be paid on the basis that they don't have time for a job, because athletes that DON'T draw an audience don't make as much money for the school, but also cannot get a job. Therefore, I urge a vote for pro. I'd like to thank con for clearly being a worthy opponent. (1) http://www.gocrimson.com... (2) http://www.forbes.com... (3) http://www.usatoday.com... (4) http://www.nerdwallet.com..."	PRO	115
115	Sac752d39-Ac1ace28a	Parents/guardians should be in control of their child(ren)'s education, not the state.	I. Abuse of Power That the Romeike family was accepted to the US under refugee status, lends that the harsh action of the German government traumatizing the Romeike children by physically removing them from their home and escorting them to school is in fact an abuse of power. The Romeike children were not abused. The states only reason for interfering was its instistance that all children receive the exact same education. II. Quality of Education While CON has showed that a significant proportion of home schooling families are religious, CON has failed to show that religion is inherently harmful to the quality of education. Private Schools are known for their quality education and what few studies there are have begun to show the benefits of home education. Optional alternative education allows parents to choose a higher quality education for their child. III. Fallibility of a Single Entity CON believes that democracy gives decision making power to the many, and that this is better than having every guardian decide on behalf of their child. However, voter turn out for presidential elections fluctuates between 50% to 60% [1]. Barely over half of US citizens give their voice to presidential elections. Far less have direct input into the public education system. It is vital that parents have the choice to place their child in the care of the public education system or an alternative, such as private school or home school. It is too risky to force all children to go through the same education system. A variety of educations is best to ensure a variety of schools of thought have an input on our future. This leads me into point IV. IV. Variety of Educational Systems If you'll refer back to the rules in the first speech, new arguments are only not allowed in the last round. My opponent is much more interested in playing at statistics than using critical thinking. A lack of statistics where irrelevant or unattainable does not make an argument invalid. CON attacked the format of this argument, not the argument itself, thus dropping the point to me. A. Best Interest of Child I apologize for “1 out of 5”. This was a typo. In my notes I have “1 out of 3” home school graduates do not continue on to college, which is congruent with the math. CON shared with us that Public School graduates continue on to college at approximately the same ratio as home school graduates. This may have led you to believe we have tied this point. However, CON forgets that home school is not the only form of alternative education. Private Schools pride themselves on extremely high college acceptance rates for their graduates. Therefor, alternative education is in the best interest of the child. Home schooling gives the child as good a chance at continuing on to college as public schooling, and private schooling gives the child an even better chance. B. Parent Choice is Harmful Allowing the state to prevent child abuse is not the same as allowing the state to control all education. Parents have been indoctrinating their children into their religious beliefs for centuries with or without the help of home education. If CON suggests the state prevent parents from indoctrinating their children into their beliefs this would be a gross overstep and directly violate freedom of religion. As usual, CON ignores the branch of alternative education that is private school. CON feels it is necessary for parents to limit contact with their child. Again, this would be a gross overstep of state control to dictate how much time a parent can spend with their child. The exception to this being abuse, in which case it is the state's duty to interfere. The only harm CON has shown is child abuse, which is not directly caused by parent choice of education, and does not fall under state controlled education for the state to remove a child from an abusive or neglectful environment. C. State Controlled Education is Better CON has merely shown that there is more data on public education than home education. Yet again, CON neglects the branch of alternative education that is private schooling. Public education is certainly not better than private education, otherwise why would anyone ever pay to send their child to private school when public school is free? D. Elitist Education “Skims” CON claims I dropped this point. I did not. I said “private schools are not the source of inequality. Eliminating private education, would simply remove a valuable service and not solve the problem of inequality”. Here is a quick summary for you. I have four arguments. I. Allowing the state to control the education of every child lends it to abusing that power. II. Quality of education would be hampered by limiting children to the public education system. III. Putting all children to through the same education system is irresponsible due to the fallibility of a single entity (putting all your eggs in one basket. IV. Having a variety of education systems available is our best chance at success. My opponent also have four arguments. A. CON believes public education is in the best interest of the child. However, public school is just as bad as home school at getting their graduates into college and private school is fantastic at getting their graduates into college. B. CON believes parent choice is harmful. However, allowing every parent to decide on behalf of their child is better than allowing the state to put them all through the same system. C. CON believes public education is better. However, it is clear that private education is superior. D. CON believes private education causes inequality. However, eliminating private education will not solve inequality and instead steals a valuable service. The central theme of this debate is would you rather risk a small proportion of the sliver of the families that home school having an easier time indoctrinating or abusing their child, or would you rather risk the state putting all children through the exact same sub-par education with the curriculum and pledges chosen by the state. How children are educated shapes the future. Don't let the state water down the potential of the future by controlling the education of our children. 1. http://elections.gmu.edu...	PRO	116
116	S16199f60-Aad32b0b	Ending Education Subsidies	"Pro's final arguments involve more complaints than actual rebuttals. Pro has still not refuted any part of my case. Therefore I will just be providing a short summary showing why my arguments were superior and Pro should be docked Conduct and Sources as well as arguments. Resolution: I would highly suggest that in the future, Pro put the topic he wants to debate as the resolution. He obviously wanted to argue about transferability of skills. Why then would he make a resolution saying that Educational Subsidies should be ended? Is there a purpose to this? He could just as well have made a resolution saying ""Skills learned in college aren't transferable."" If that were the case, he would find an opponent who wants to argue about transferability of skills rather than educational subsidies. It is simpler way to make resolutions - Put the resolution as the topic you want to debate. Now, I did entertain Pro's arguments and was a good sport about arguing about transferability of skills and how it doesn't apply to the topic at hand. However, there is no question that Pro drew me into a debate topic by posting an unrelated resolution and using semantics to twist it towards arguing what he wanted. I have no problem with someone who wants to argue whether college skills transfer to the real world, just frame the resolution as such. For this reason, Pro should lose Conduct. Having said that, not only did I debate a topic that I wasn't interested in, I actually refuted all of my opponent's points and showed why they don't apply. Let's take a look: Pro case: 1) Human Capital ""While knowing how to interact with people might be a useful skill, it isn’t actually the subject matter of any sociology or psychology class."" This is blantently false. UC Berkeleys's Sociology and Psychology departments for instance offers courses of how to interview people, how to conduct research studies, and how people work in an organization [1][2]. This type of knowledge is useful in one's career and precisely the reason why employers require undergraduate degrees in the Humanities and Social Sciences departments. Pro concedes that my argument about HTML is valid. As a counterexample, Pro says that a course in gender conflicts is not useful for a job. I am not saying every course that you learn in college is useful for every job. A course in gender conflict is obviously useful to a social worker who has a specific job of helping victims of domestic abuse for instance. Before helping them, the candidate would need to know what causes those gender conflicts and how best to address them. This is the reason why college courses are required in order to be successful. The author of the study Pro mentioned gives examples besides the retarded women but they are just as irrelevant. For instance, the next example he gives is that everytime he boards a bus in a different country, the driver tells him in his local language what the fare is. The author goes on to prove that none of the skills he learned were transferred. It has absolutely nothing to do with whether college courses are necessary in order to be successful in the real world. Pro is not only lying but falsely accusing me of lying. His other examples were just as irrelevant as the first. 2) Signalling I have argued that college courses make students more knowledgeable about the subject matter. I also argued that knowledge is required in order to be successful at a job. Con does not refute it at all. He says that working builds a better work ethic than going to college. However, firstly, working does not generally involve independently doing homework as being in college does. Secondly, the knowledge gained in college courses is required before starting work. Nowhere does Pro refute that college courses help gain knowledge of the field. Going back to my HTML argument, sure working at a web design company may hone the skills of a person better than attending a college class but work doesn't teach HTML. You have to know it before you start working. 3) Useful education ""Why not have everyone get a PhD? Several PhDs? That way we’d maximize productivity."" I am not saying that we shouldn't. Assuming the goverment has an unlimited budget, that is what we should do. Allocation of budget is important. I have presented several arguments why subsidizing undergraduate education is beneficial. If Pro wants to have a debate about PhDs, he can do it another time. My case: Pro has conceded every part of my case. This is another reason that I am not happy with Pro's conduct. He provided one line rebuttals to my case while using his entire character space on his own hoping that voters might forget about it. This makes me use up character space refuting his arguments while just using a few characters saying ""extend"" for my arguments which results in the majority of the debate being about his case. If a voter skims through the arguments, they are much more likely to notice the bigger volume of text and vote based on Pro's offensive case rather than mine. This is an extremely cheap tactic to mislead voters and I absolutely insist that Pro be docked conduct for his underhanded tactics. Voters, look not at the volume of the text but rather evaluate both my arguments and pro's arguments. A dropped argument is to be extended, not forgotten. Here is a summary of my case and why Pro failed to refute it: 1) College is required for success Pro merely says that college is corelated with success. I have shown causation as well by showing how it 1) Leads to increased knowledge of the subject matter (HTML example, domestic worker example). I have shown causation as well as corelation. 2) College is unaffordable to the majority of students Pro does not contest this point. 3) Unsubsidized loans do not fill the need Pro does not contest this point. Conclusion: Therefore education must be subsidized. Voting Comments 1) Pro failes to cite online sources but rather povides books as sources. He provides a few links but none of them are his major source for transferability. You also need a subscription to an academic search engine - which is not free. 2) My complaint was not that Pro's argument was unexpected. It is that Pro should write the resolution as the topic he wants to argue. Writing a resolution on one topic and arguing about another just puts off people who were interested in arguing the resolution at hand. Semantic tricks are worthy of a loss in conduct. Advice to Pro: Whatever you want to debate, frame it as the resolution. I too can perform semantic tricks by making a resolution that says ""Abortion is immoral"" and then argue that morality does not exist. But then, why would I use the key word ""abortion"" in my resolution and get people wanting to argue abortion to accept? Couldn't I simply have titled my resolution ""Morality does not exist?"" 3) Pro ignores my entire argument hoping that unsuspecting voters will think I did not make one based on the sheer volume of characters spent talking about his argument. However, I urge voters to read both arguments. I proved every part of my syllogism and it is airtight. So, by that alone, I should win the debate. Sources [1] http://sociology.berkeley.edu... [2] http://psychology.berkeley.edu..."	CON	117
117	S1ce229d0-A7ac1dd7f	College Football is better than NFL football	"I will be arguing that NFL (National Football League) Football is better than College Football (Division I, II, III). [1] Contention 1: Athletic Superiority NFL players are faster, stronger, bigger, more agile, more technically gifted, and possess more game knowledge and experience than their college football counterparts. Unlike college football, NFL football is solely focused on just that: football. There are no longer distractions that college campuses distract student-athletes with and no exams that require studying. NFL players live, work, and play for the game itself. ""Most NFL players are bigger than college football players, and this is because they have more time to dedicate to working out. They have trainers and doctors and other professionals on call to help them perfect their minds, bodies, and performance. Additionally, NFL players have access to gyms, other facilities, and products as most college football players do, however more resources go into this for a professional team than most college football teams."" [2] Contention 2: College Football Should Be Banned College Football, unlike professional football played in the NFL, takes place on university campuses. The primary purpose of university and college campuses is to educate students, not to host football programs, but sadly the emphasis points toward the latter. The net effect of these football programs is to actually decrease funding for other university programs, distract students from their studies, to raise tuition costs, and to contort the meaning of higher education into a worship of football, rather than a preparing of students with knowledge and connections to get them ready for the 21st century American job market and doing high-level research to progress the human species. [4] University-age students are in a highly formative and cognitively demanding point in their lives, yet the emphasis lies in them going out onto the field every saturday to get their heads smashed in, dramatically increasing their chances of developing chronic traumatic encephalopathy, a brain condition that leads to early deaths. [3] Rebuttals Most of Pro's arguments are sentimental and emotional rather than factual or logical. [1] http://en.wikipedia.org...; [2] http://www.hogmonster.com...; [3] http://en.wikipedia.org... [4] http://online.wsj.com..."	CON	118
118	S1901e66f-A2ae42758	The Electoral College	"Debate Settings 10,000 Character arguments 72 Hour argument time 14 Day Voting Opponent must have completed 1 debate, this is to avoid a new member accepting then freezing the debate, if you have not completed one debated and wish to accept this debate please message me or leave a comment Complete Topic Should the Electoral College be preserved? Note: Contender is debating against the preservation of the electoral college Terms Electoral College (in the US) a body of people representing the states of the US, who formally cast votes for the election of the president and vice president. Preserved maintain (something) in its original or existing state. Rules 1. No forfeits 2. Any citations or foot/endnotes must be provided in the text of the debate 3. No new arguments in the final round 4. No trolling 5. No semantics 6. My opponent accepts all definitions and waives his/her right to add definitions 7. Violation of any of these rules or of any of the R1 set-up merits a loss. 8. No ""K's"" on the topic. 9. All citations should be links, and may not be hidden behind a login 10.For all undefined terms, individuals should use commonplace understandings that fit within the logical context of the resolution and this debate Debate Format R1: Con Accepts R2: Pro Arguments. Con Arguments R3: Pro Rebuttals, Con Rebuttals R4: Pro Defence, Con Defence and Further Rebuttals R5: Pro Defence, Further Rebuttals, and Conclusion, Con Defence and Conclusion I Thank My Opponent In Advance For Accepting This Debate And Wish Him The Best Of Luck"	PRO	119
119	Se6a1eebb-A1c88d9f4	Abolish the Electoral College	"""In the last line of my 2nd paragraph, I said, ""But if you implemented a different standard (for example, the popular vote) then everybody's vote counts the same, and nobody in the population's vote is not counted or worth any less."" This shows why another standard, like the popular vote, is superior to the electoral college. With the electoral college, a person's vote counts less based on where they live."" This would be relevant- if I hadn't already proved that the popular vote system is terrible. And I did not drop your ""Wyoming vs Texas"" point. I carefully explained why that scenario was the case, and then I showed how it is perfectly fair. Here- ""The fact that Wyoming has fewer people per electoral vote is true, but before condemning it, lets examine why. Each state gets two senators, regardless of population, and then a house of representatives member for approximately every 710,000 people. Each senator and house of reps member counts as an electoral vote. (The exception to these rules is DC. DC has no senators or representatives, but gets 3 electoral votes.) So, two of Wyoming's three votes are from the senators. This is true for all states. Senators have nothing to do with population, so two of those electoral votes are justified. Now lets look at the last vote. This vote is the population vote. True, Wyoming's population is only about 584,000 (Not enough for an electoral vote), but they still need a representative. They pay taxes, right? No taxation without representation. And the senators do not count as representation. So we give Wyoming a representative, which makes things unbalanced. But the alternative is to essentially throw out the votes of hundreds of thousands of people. For more about how this rule came about, go here- http://study.com...; This is not dropping a point. The fact that you continued to argue despite my complete rebuttal is not my fault. You are wrong here, and there is nothing more to say on this point. And when you say ""Con said that most places have a ""small minority"" of dissent so it's realistic and acceptable to ask people to move"", you are completely lying. I would appreciate is you actually read my argument instead of skimming it. When I said this before, I meant no offense. Now, I do, because you are showing you do not care by essentially ignoring me, then twisting my words. I said that dissent is small, and so the vast majority of people are helped, not harmed, by the electoral college. Iowa is a swing state. In your previous round, you said that they actually ""matter the most"". So why are you arguing against them? As for your statement about the 12 final contestants, please tell me how many actually have a chance of winning. Two. I a popular vote system, 12 people can reasonably expect to win an election, which would be disastrous. Also, you have to actually define and go over the Bayh Celler Constitutional amendment, Every Vote Counts amendment, and National Popular Vote Interstate Compact, instead of just listing them. Otherwise, you have not fulfilled your BOP- to prove that these systems would be better than the electoral college. Sources: http://www.slate.com... http://www.sciencebuzz.org... http://www.politico.com..."	CON	120
120	S1901e66f-Ac089f17f	The Electoral College	Rebuttals C1: Regional Differences The pro reiterates his claim the electoral college exists to give smaller states representation. This doesn’t change the fact it gives fewer people more influence over a single office, which is a violation of democratic principles. The pro concedes the electoral college is undemocratic and that the US is a democratic republic. It, therefore, follows that basic democratic principles should be followed. He cites the senate as an undemocratic and as being like the electoral college, however as the senate represents 100 offices each elected by popular vote, while the electoral college exists to elect one office, this analogy falls flat. Additionally, as this debate is about the electoral college and not the US senate, the argument the Pro is attempting to make is simply a red herring. He responds to my argument about the disproportionate influence that Wyoming voters have vs the influence California voters have; however, he says that it simply doesn’t matter because California won’t be ignored because they have more electors. That is not at all the point of the argument. The argument was that this unequal distribution of influence is unfair and undemocratic, not about the influence of states, but the influence of voters. The con responds to my argument around solid states by claiming Hillary Clinton hosted a rally in Kansas City and Donald Drumpf hosted a rally in California. Both of these examples are extremely flawed as the “rally” Hillary Clinton “hosted” in September of 2016 was not actually in Kansas, it was in Missouri, a fact stated in the first line of the article he cited (1). Moreover, Clinton was in Kansas City, Missouri for the National Baptist Convention. It was not an actual campaign event, but an appearance at an independent event. Drumpf’s Rally in California meanwhile was a campaign event for the California primary, not the general election and is, therefore, irrelevant to this debate (2). In actuality, 94% of the campaign events were held in only 12 states, and most of them happened to be swing states. Two-thirds of the campaign events were held in only 6 states. Most other states got between 0-5 visits from candidates (3). C2: Moderate Candidates The Pro again says the candidates need to be in the center so they can appeal to more voters in swing states, however as I previously pointed out, Donald Drumpf was able to win over people in Swing states, without being more moderate. While Clinton won the popular vote, under the system the Pro is defending this simply does not matter. The Pro again claims that under a popular vote system, candidates would only campaign in a few regions, those being where their support bases are. This simply does not make any sense, however, as in addition to the fact that none of these regions contain even close to a majority of the US population, there are not enough democrats or republicans alone to elect a president. The largest segment of American voters is the independents at 42%, and thus winning the election depends on winning over independents (4). Simply preaching to the choir would not result in a victory for any candidate. C3 “Pure” Democracy The Pro reiterates his red herring about the senate, which I have already addressed and will not waste characters explaining again. None of what is stated in this argument is a response to what I said in round 3. Moreover, the Pro conceded this contention when he states the US is a “liberal democracy”. C4 Efficiency The Pro claims that the electoral college is more efficient because of the complexity of recounts, however, given recounts are conducted on a local level, and elections are controlled by state and local authorities, not by the national government. He cites the example of Florida in 2000, however, in the 2000 election, the entire issue centered around local recounts and the overall election result in Florida, which would determine who won all of Florida’s electors. Nothing would change in regards to this under a popular vote system, as the elections would still be controlled by the same authorities. Defense R1: Swing States The Pro claims my problem with swing states is that candidates spend more time in these states, however in round two, I stated my issue is that these states have greater sway in the election, and that is why candidates spend more time there. The Pro does not address this point at all. The pro then goes on to claim that “almost no state is ignored” and the Clinton did have a rally in Kansas. However, as I previously pointed out this is not true, as Clinton attended an event in Missouri, but it was not a campaign event, and I cited a source which pointed out that 94% of the 399 campaign events in 2016 were in only 12 states. 23 states meanwhile were not visited at all, among them Kansas(3). The Pro also cited a primary election stop in California by Donald Drumpf, however, that stop is not relevant to the debate being had at all. R2: Influence The Pro claims that unequal influence is meant to protect minorities, however, this doesn’t change the fact that this violates democratic principles and his previous defense was nothing more than a red herring. This argument had simply gone unanswered. R3 Limited choice The Pro claims that “winner take all” is not written in law, however, this is blatantly false. As previously stated in all but 2 states, the electors have decided in a winner take all manner. While electors are able, in some states, to vote for whoever they want to, this does not change the fact that the electors are elected on a ticket. The Pro claims that my argument is against the way the electors are distributed by the states and this is not a problem with the electoral college itself, however, this is utterly asinine. It is the role of the Pro to defend the electoral college in its current form. In its current form, the electoral college is, with two exceptions, decided in a winner take all manner, and this is why one of my proposed solutions was adopting a proportional system for electors. R3 Third Party The Pro again does not address my argument, which is that the winner take all nature of the electoral college makes people less willing to vote for third parties. The Con does not address this at all, instead, he points to the 1968 election, which is an outlier and was the last time a third party won electoral votes. 1: http://fox4kc.com... 2: 3: http://www.nationalpopularvote.com... 4: http://www.gallup.com...	CON	121
121	Sac752d39-A791e3c59	Parents/guardians should be in control of their child(ren)'s education, not the state.	"Before I begin, I clarify that I use the terms ""parents/guardians"", ""guardians"", and ""parents"" interchangeably; all mean ""parents/guardians"". As the con, I shall be arguing that legal guardians should not be ""in charge of deciding where their children go to school, including the options of alternative education and home schooling,"" as per the clarified resolution given by the pro in this round, as he has the burden of proof. First, I will rebut Pro's points. Second, I will show that home schooling is not in the best interests of the education of the child, due to external factors such as abuse and dogmatic guardians. Third, I will show that parental choice of education is generally harmful to children. Finally, I will show that state-controlled education works better in practice. I had a bit of difficulty constructing this argument, as there are two different resolutions Pro has brought up. First, he offers clarification for the original resolution, as he explicitly states, ""I have been misunderstood before with this resolution. ""Control their child(ren)'s education"" does NOT mean all parents/guardians would be mandated to design or even implement a curriculum. In this context, ""control"" means 'in charge of deciding where their children go to school, including the options of alternative education and home schooling'."" That serves to clarify the original resolution, ""Parents/guardians should be in control of their child(ren)'s education, not the state,"" before Pro changes the resolution entirely to ""countries that restrict a parent's control of their child's education should cease."" Because the first resolution to be stated and clarified was the former, I will argue against that. Pro's first point, that the status quo includes persecution, has no relevance to the resolution. The ""persecution"" of those that home school does not make home schooling correct any more than the persecution of Christians makes Christianity correct. It is a logical fallacy. On a related note, Germany outperformed the United States on the PISA test (7); lending support to the idea that their educational system is superior. Pro's web poll is not cited specifically enough to find it, so I will respond with statistics I found that show that more than half actually home school for religious reasons (6). I will challenge the U.S. News source on the basis that taking testimony from one parent of home schooled children in order to justify the system is not broad enough in scope to have any meaningful implication. The statement about college is skewed; more information about that can be found later in my argument. Pro's third point also has little relevance to the resolution. Most it is entirely subjective. Anything can be considered ""a single entity"", including a parent/guardian unit. The state, which in cases of educated nations is often democratic, is actually fairer in education because more people have a say in its implementation. State-run education doesn't always equal a dictatorship. External factors make the idealistic view of parent choice an unrealistic view. The idealistic view is that home schooling will ""[Nurture] a child's natural thirst for learning, not [squelch it],"" and will provide several other benefits (1). In practice, however, it leaves a large number of children with severe disadvantages. Though admitted home schooled children do better at college than public school students, that leaves out a major part of the picture. Home schooled students face a huge problem actually getting admitted into college, and some colleges look unfavorably upon home schooled students. (2) A source indirectly cited by article, as it was a source in the U.S. news he cited states that while approximately 3% of school-age students are home schooled, only 1% of college students come from a background of being home schooled (3). The full research report that in turn came from can be found in my sources as well (4). That is a very poor chance for a home schooled child to make it to college. In these ways, home schooling is an inferior alternative to public school, and thus should not be allowed. Parental choice is harmful to children in general. In addition to hurting chances for college enrollment, as seen above, many other factors arise from home schooling that are extremely detrimental to the well-being of a child. Hundreds of cases of documented abuse were facilitated by home schooling (5), and those are just the documented cases. Home schooling also creates potential for highly dogmatic education. According to the Coalition for Responsible Home Education, approximately 22% of home schooling parents cite ""A desire to provide religious instruction"" or ""A desire to provide moral instruction"" as the most important reason for home schooling (6). This blatantly shows that guardian-driven indoctrination is a major component of home schooling; as well, more than 65% of parents/guardians cited ""A desire to provide religious instruction"" as at least an ""Important"" reason in the same study. For this reason, guardians should not be allowed to choose alternative forms of education for their own children. Meanwhile, private schooling and school choice also have a strong effect of cream-skimming, or discriminating against lower-opportunity students (8). Finally, state-run education has more potential than education in which parents have a say. The PISA test, a widely-cited basis for comparing national education systems, has results that attest to this. In 2012, the United States ranked in the bottom half of participating countries (7). The majority of students are not taught at home or alternatively schooled in those countries, so success on the PISA depends mostly on public school students. The same statement applies to the U.S. Therefore, it can be logically concluded that the public school system holds a greater impact on the rankings. Let's make a generous supposition that home schooled students do 12% better at the PISA than publicly schooled ones. That's generous, because according to (3 and 4), home schooled students had an average first-year GPA of 3.41, compared to public school students with an average of 3.12, a difference of approximately 10%. The United States had a mean score of 481 on the PISA. 481 * 1.12 = 538.72. That still ranks below Shanghai, Hong Kong, Singapore, Chinese Taipei and Korea. That doesn't sound bad at first, but bear in mind that that assumes that all students would perform just as well as the top third of home schooled kids, as 1% of college students are home schooled, yet home schooled students make up 3% of the student population. This brings to light that even if the United States' education system is worse than home schooling, it has greater potential than home schooling. Therefore, resources should be spent developing state-run education, not defending the educational ""rights"" of guardians. In conclusion, guardian choice of education does not significantly aid student achievement. It also provides a whole host of new issues, no matter what form the choice occurs in. This is not to say that alternative education is necessarily bad; for example, a state-sponsored school specifically for disabled children could be beneficial. The resolution, however, deals with guardian choice, and guardians should have no say in these matters. Sources: 1.http://www.washhomeschool.org... 2.http://www.pbs.org... 3.http://i.bnet.com... 4.http://files.eric.ed.gov... 5.http://hsinvisiblechildren.org... 6.http://www.responsiblehomeschooling.org... 7.http://www.oecd.org... 8.http://www.maxwell.syr.edu..."	CON	122
122	S7519549b-Af74872f0	Animals are worth more	"The arguments that Pro has made has done nothing to defend the assertion that Animals are worth more. My opponent already states that dangerous animals should not be kept in the apartment. But, the resolution clearly states that one must include all animals when arguing. Snakes, Lions, Mice, and Lizards all qualify as animals that under Pro's world should be ""worth more"". Dropped Arguments: Wasted Effort: Pro has not provided any arguments that counter the Wasted effort argument. Pro has not answered what one has to gain for taking an extra step into caring for an animal. Pro has not countered any Darwinian law arguments which means he either concedes with this argument, or was just too pathetic to even answer it. He also did not counter how when people start organizations, they actually end up doing more harm than good. http://lcanimal.org... This is a link obviously written by someone who loves animals. Research ""There are simply very few zoos that practice relevant and reliable research. Those that do mainly examine the physiological structure of a captive animal, as well as the illnesses he or she has acquired. These results however, are obviously skewed towards animals living in captivity. They therefore generate little information about how to best conserve species in the wild. In their natural habitat, species develop immunities to naturally occurring illnesses. Zoo animals usually do not form resistance to the most ordinary of ailments and are more prone to catching viruses that they would never encounter in the wild. Moreover, living in captivity causes animals to lose their natural disposition to the extent that they become unrepresentative of their species. Therefore, studies of captive animals are of limited benefit to animals in the wild."" This is research of how much of a negative impact organizations that are intended to help animals have. Animal Moral-Pro also did not answer this argument which means he either concedes with this argument, or was just to pathetic not to answer it. In this argument I state: A. Animals have no clue what morality is. B. Statistics on animals killing for their instinct for survival You have not countered the idea that animals have no clue what morality is therefore making it more difficult to prove that animals are worth more. Defense: Pro assumes that I believe that wolves go into cities to kill people for fun. Well, there is a problem with how you comprehend things, because the point I was making was Animals have no clue what morality is, and they have no clue what compassion is. Animals like wolves, snakes, lions, lizards, insects, and others all want to survive. You have done nothing to counter this."	CON	123
123	Sa60e8842-A8fdaa4e2	Education Reform	"While money cannot buy you happiness, its the only dough that can buy a house, pay your bills, and support a family. My opponent quoted me as saying that life skills are useless in the modern world. This was neither stated nor implied in the pertaining passage [I run a corporation, and life skills aren't worth the oxygen in business. No, respect doesn't even earn you a smile.] I am not averse to the idea of life skills. My revulsion is their over-emphasis. As my opponent stated in contention #1, I am focusing on the financial side of life (intentionally), and will proceed to broaden the scope of my arguments. Perhaps this discussion is to be more fruitful if we speak from a perspective in consideration of a larger picture. You are endowed with elective (optional) and highly specialized classes, which are not the model in the elementary educational environment. However, several fallacies are apparent in the beginning education of children. Without further ado, allow me to certify that I am not an oldie. I experienced electives in my time, and my opponent has thus far crafted a description that runs parallel to the educational environment of the 70s that I was taught in, excepting for segregation. Regarding once again to education, allow me to relate my points by the means of narrating the life of Jill, an aspiring economist. NOTE:fictional From about age 12, Jill knew what she wanted to be: ""one of those market people"". In the absence of relevant teaching in the curriculum, Jill found books and web sites to instigate a foundation of business knowledge. At age 19, Jill entered Harvard University and was well-prepared for a rigorous course on advanced business science. Let us now take the example of Fred, an unsuccessful ex-economist. Fred, with the same intentions as Jill, yet a more conventional mind, started off fresh with the same course, having gained no prior knowledge, and was ill-prepared. After his failed career, Fred's income was grounded, and he ended up on the streets. Thus, a potentially great mind fails to flourish in the absence of a relevant class at the elementary level. As shown by these examples, the current educational system lacks curriculum ties to the real world. My opponents response to tie off this round should accomplish the following: 1. find flaw in the stories of Jill and Fred 2. illuminate changes in the educational system since the 70s 3. reflect a reason for the over-emphasis of lifeskillsl"	PRO	124
124	S1901e66f-A920f3e89	The Electoral College	Contention 1: Swing States Perhaps the biggest and most glaring issue with the electoral college is the fact that it leads to the creation of swing states. Swing states are states in which there is greater partisan competition, thus the races in these states are the most competitive and are the deciding states in the election. The problem with this is that it gives certain states (like Ohio, Florida, and Pensylvania) greater sway in the election and thus candidates spend most of their time and resources in these states, and they will tailor their policies and their message to appeal to voters in these states. This all comes at the expense of the approximately 40 other states, which are effectively ignored by candidates as a result. Contention 2: Inequality of Influence As mentioned in contention 1, the creation of swing states as a result of the electoral college grants more influence to certain states, and subsequently the voters in those states. Swing states compose approximately 18% of the US population, meaning that this small minority of voters has exponentially more influence than the remaining 82% of voters. This inequality of influence is a clear violation of the basic democratic principle of equal influence in government. As a democratic republic, it is imperative that the US upholds these principles. In addition, the simple voter to elector ratio is skewed in a way which makes a single vote in that state more impactful than a vote in another state. This means that fewer people again have a greater amount of influence of the presidency. Contention 3: Limits Choices and Harms 3rd Parties The electoral college plays a major role in maintaining the two party system. This is because all but 2 states elect their electors in a winner take all manner, meaning a candidate only needs to win a simple majority in order to win all of the electors. In solid states like Kansas (my home state) any vote which is not for a Republican is effectively meaningless, as the result in Kansas is practically a bygone conclusion. This particularly hurts third parties, as people feel they are more obligated to vote for the candidate who is likely to do second best to increase that candidate's chances. This limits the options and the span of the debate in politics. Solutions As the topic of this debate is the preservation of the electoral college, I will be focusing more on the problems in the electoral college as it currently exists. I will, however, provide two possible alternatives to the status quo. The first is the most obvious: Direct election of the president. This is a very obvious solution and to many makes the most sense. Alternatively, the electoral college could be preserved, and make the electors proportionally elected, rather than winner take all, so the electors would better represent the will of the voters in each state. Sources http://fivethirtyeight.com... http://www.cnn.com... https://www.washingtonpost.com... https://www.uscis.gov... http://www.usnews.com... http://www.huffingtonpost.com...	CON	125
125	S4692357-A689856b0	The Banking Concept of Education is Oppressive	"As you put it, ""A true democracy requires a shared knowledge, it requires the student has the same basic ideas."" This was the case when those two Fascists attended school, before the infamy, before their decisions to be misguided. But these two men are just one example, some children go through the same schooling, are fed the same information and yet the thoughts will not stick in their head. These children cannot learn this way. They soon find themselves in a career that uses no knowledge of the things they were fed in grade school, but newly acquired skills learned in college or Vocational school. This is gained through an equal ""student-teacher"" relationship. The system does not work on all children, therefore the banking concept of education is oppressive."	PRO	126
126	Sab7e692e-A4ca647b2	a penny is worth more then a dime	"-As I have been ever so diligently been trying to prove, a penny is indeed worth more then a dime.- -It costs .0126 cents US to create a penny [1]- -If this is true then this would mean that in order to make a penny.. it would cost more then the value of a penny to create.- -Moving onward to the dime within the same source.- ""Other currency, such as dimes and quarters, costs much less to make. ""[1] -Ah, the smell of a rushed debate.- -Anyway I believe that con now owes me 7 internetz and a lifetime supply of cheetos. VOTE for PedRO- [1] http://www.wisegeek.com..."	PRO	127
127	Sd0766dd3-Afe0fd2d7	Electoral college	"I accept. I believe this debate would be about if the Elector College System is better then the national voting. Which is odd, because America has both. American voters basically elect the Electors, and they vote for Joe Schmoe at their political get-togethers. ""The United States Electoral College is the institution that elects the President and Vice President of the United States every four years. The President and Vice President are not elected directly by the voters. Instead, they are elected by ""electors"" who are chosen by popular vote on a state-by-state basis."" Source: Wikipedia. I believe there is no misunderstandings, so I accept."	PRO	128
128	S717923bb-A1a3559cd	A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.	"I would like to remind everyone that the proverb ""A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush"" is implying that the value of something one owns is worth the value of something that one wishes to pursue. I have shown that that is not necessarily the case. For one thing, the fulfillment of achieving ones aspirations is invaluable. For two, playing things safe leads to complacency and depression. For three, value is infinite and we can always find something again when it becomes lost. My opponent has said that I did not respond to his case on logic in round two. In fact, I have responded in saying that the odds and the value of something cannot be measured, and therefore we cannot assess real life risks with a game of odds . The idea is that we give our own personal value towards everything in life. If we are unhappy with the value of something in our life, it is always worth risking it to achieve something greater. What is the point of working if we are not advancing our career? What is the point of loving if we are not spreading that love? What is the point of living if we are not pursuing what brings us fulfillment? Value: My opponent says that it is impossible to know every pro and con of something before you take the risk. It is true that you do not truly know what you have until you have it. That means that when we have something, we know if we find value in that thing. If we still have the desire to risk something greater for that thing, it is likely worth it to risk what we have. This is because we know what brings us happiness and we know that in order to gain optimum success, risks are worth it. Odds: Here my opponent gives a list of people who have tried things and failed. Just because one person or thing failed does not mean that their risks were in vain. I'm sure these people would all agree that they would have rather died trying than lived without pushing themselves. Conclusion We put value in what we place them in. Losing something for the greater purpose is not something that should stop a person from pursuing their dreams. I have showed that intention and determination can bring great success and that closing oneself off to their hopes will bring them staleness. It is more inherently valuable to go after something you desire than to let it float by. Good luck to Pro!"	CON	129
129	Sa60e8842-Ac5f09f5c	Education Reform	"""By education reform, I do mean reform at the elementary level, as you have inferred."" Great, it's round FOUR and we have established a more focused topic. ""2. My examples are in direct consequence of the education system. Jill succeeded because she found extra-curriculum material to prep her for university classes, and Fred didn't. Having a more conventional mind, Fred would have been just as knowledgeable, should the curriculum have contained electives such as what you are experiencing, yet at a lower level."" In the example you quoted Jill as 12, but most people GRADUATING elementary school are 10 or 11. Most kids this age don't know what they want to do or still want to be a sports star! We build a foundation of basic skills in the early years to greater serve them when they do decide what to do. http://en.wikipedia.org... * In mathematics, students usually master long division and work with multiplication of vulgar fractions and decimals. Sometimes this also includes initial exposure to ratios and percentages. Pre-Algebra is sometimes offered as an honors course. Fifth graders may also work more on more advanced long division, such as dividings in the double digits, hundreds, and thousands. * In language classes the study of grammar begins. This begins as early as the third grade in some schools. * In social studies, the study of history and geography are furthered. In Ontario, this grade focuses on the history of the student's province (as opposed to fourth grade which covers the student's municipality, and sixth grade which focuses on the country). * In physical science, the states of matter are introduced, and an introduction to the basics of machines. This could be also introduced as early as the third and fourth grade. * In life science, the structures and mechanics of plants and animals are illustrated. * In music, classes may start or continue recorders (sometimes called the flutaphone). The band and choir program usually starts at that age. * In P.E. (physical education), schools start sexual education or gender-specific health education. It's crazy to make kids 5-11 choose elective classes at such a young age. I mean could you see your 6 year old in a marketing class? They wouldn't have the skills to succeed or understand the things taught, because they don't have the FOUNDATION! Elementary schools serve to solidify your base skills so you can take those courses like I am in high school. ""3. This contention requires no evidence, if the educational system resembled the real world, the curriculum would have more relevance. My second, ""unsourced"", claim requires no source: I consider the teaching of life skills (that you acknowledged) over-emphasis, as they have relatively little importance in the real world, compared with their teaching"" Once again I beg to differ. Teaching ""life-skills"" helps reinforce other subjects and help them improve in that area. If you believe that teaching life skill aren't worth anything then how do you explain the rise in reading and math scores (see my 3rd contention)? Do you also think reading and math aren't worth anything either? ""Opposing Contention #1. I shall proceed to explicitly refute this contention. Your link provides that happiness does not increase beyond about $12,000/year. However, in all middle class households, the phrase dreaded by the masses of working men ""we can't afford it"". Money serves as a buffer, reducing stress and providing for mistakes such as The Sub-prime Mortgage Crisis."" Money does serve as a buffer, but that still doesn't make up for the fact that no matter how much money we make it doesn't equivocate to happiness. Last time I checked finding happiness was a ""real life"" skill. Building good relationships, respect, passion, thinking positivity and having family to help you find happiness. If ""real life"" skills ( by your definition: money) are what we need to survive in the real world then I suggest you revise your definition of ""real life skills"". Psychologists have been preaching this time, time and again. http://www.usatoday.com... School's today get this more then ever and it's helping with all aspects of their schooling and life. ""Opposing Contention #3. This contention is entirely based on improvements in material knowledge, which is not the only relevant teaching to prepare for the real world."" Yes, but it is relevant as you have just acknowledged and serves are a base to help children take higher level courses in high school just as I am."	CON	130
130	S10c0bcf4-A3fe02da0	Education should be funded by vouchers granted to individual families, not public schools.	"You say: ""To begin with, there is no reason why private schools would have meet government requirements to receive funding."" It is laughable to suggest that the government would not impose some sort of standard on the schools that receive its funding via vouchers. Right now it does impose regulations on ""private"" colleges who accept federal financial aid. Effectively, there are only two private universities in the country today -- Hillsdale College and Grove City College -- because they're the only ones that refuse all federal funding. Why do they refuse it? Not because they don't want the money... But because they don't want the government to regulate and CONTROL them. I will reiterate: The Supreme Court ruled in 1984 (Grove City College v. Bell) that any college or university with even one student receiving government money is thereby subject to government regulation. Do you trust the government to not exercise this power when it comes to K-12? When has the government ever NOT regulated something that it had the authority to do so? It's absurd to suggest they wouldn't impose standards on the schools receiving vouchers when you can see the example of financial aid and ""private"" colleges, which they DO regulate and control. Where did I say that vouchers violated the First Amendment? I specifically said they DIDN'T. Why are you raising the issue as if to suggest I said something I didn't? Federal vouchers are, however, in violation of the Tenth Amendment! The arguments you make for freedom, choice, etc., are undermined by vouchers because I have clearly demonstrated that the government will regulate private schools if they receive public money. You have to believe that the government will exercise restraint -- that's absolutely hilarious to suggest. And if vouchers are established on a state-by-state basis, then what of the many state constitutions specifically banning state money going to religious institutions? I conceded that public education is horrible and cannot be fixed. Although you ""mean well,"" you are arguing for the abolition of private schools; the complete socialization of education. Your task in this debate is not to demonstrate how public schools have failed and are destined to fail -- I concede that. Your task is to answer this: How are vouchers preferable to what I am suggesting: Abolition of public schools altogether and the complete privatization of education? Vouchers would destroy private schools just as government funding has destroyed public ones."	CON	131
131	S5e977bfe-A36a2578d	Public Education is Better for Society than Private Education	"First of all, I would like to apologize for mistyping $75 000 as $750 000. I""ve rechecked my calculations. Using the additional statistics from the Population Reference Bureau in America, the percentage of households with incomes of $75 000 which have registered for private school is close to 5%. A large portion of American wealth is concentrated in the top 5%. While there is no concrete link between the two statistics, the correlation could counter the my opponent""s use of this statistic as an indicator that private school do not promote social classes. Con states: ""Also, pro states that richer students tend to do better than poorer students. That is true, but one factor could be that more richer kids go to private schools than poorer kids, and that creates a circular argument."" I don""t see how that is circular reasoning, as I merely pointed out a confounding factor in pro""s argument. Also, my opponent also agreed that ""more richer kids go to private schools than poorer kids"", which also supports my premise that private schools divide society into ""social classes"". Con states: ""Also, a teacher that gets paid less can actually be better because of the reason they're doing it. They aren't doing it as much for the moeny, but they actually care about their kids, and therefore they are willing to take less money to do their job.As I also said, teachers who teach at a religious school already have a connection with the kids. The reason private school teachers get paid less is not because they are worse, it's because they are willing to take less money to do their job the way that they think it should be done"". That job is teaching kids, and a public school would get teachers that sometimes have to do some babysitting of the kids (5)"" According to Con, the merits of a private school teachers are that they: Are altruistic (and are more dedicated to their teaching because they are payed less) Have a religious connection with students (at least some of them) Are better in their respective fields than public school teacher Additionally, Con throws in the fact that public schools have much larger class sizes than private schools, with people ranging from 35-40. I will refute these points one by one. Let""s assume that Con is correct in that private school teachers are motivated by altruism, and that lower pay is equivalent to more dedication. This claim is ridiculous. The same teachers that are altruistic in private schools can likewise be altruistic in public schools. Additionally, by Con""s logic, teachers in in Luxembourg, Switzerland, Germany, and Canada should be worse than teachers in America. Rather, they are better. 2. Con claims that religious connections can better teacher quality. This claim may or may not be true, but as I pointed out, there are religious public schools. 3. Con claims that private school teachers are better because ""a private school hiring a Spanish teacher will want that teacher to have a degree in Spanish language and literature as opposed to an education degree with a minor in Spanish"". But my opponent has no statistics to support this fact (I have checked his sources). Even if it were true, then it is the fault of the country""s educational institution, not the fault of the conception of public education. Here is Singapore""s teacher development: ""After grade 12, all Singaporean pre-service teachers attend Singapore's only teacher training institution, the National Institute of Education (NIE), where they receive 100-150 hours of methods courses, 35 hours of mathematical content courses, 40 hours of math pedagogy (teaching methodology), and 25 hours of general pedagogy."" ""The average teacher"" in Singapore is one of the best in the world, yet they focus more on the ""educational degree"" than degrees in their specific field. Public schools have more funding than private schools, and have the potential to train teachers to be better. Con states that student-to-teacher ratio is sometimes 35-40, but again, that is the fault of the institution as well. Public education has the potential to have low ratios. According to Con""s source ""http://privateschool.about.com...;, the ideal student-to-teacher ratio is 15:1, but Singapore""s secondary public educational system has reached below that ratio. In 2012, their secondary school""s pupil-to-teacher ratio was 14:1, and they are bent on lowing it even more. Con states: """"then did you look at the chart I gave based on proficiency in different subjects? The private school kids did a lot better."" The chart you gave me based on the proficiency in different subjects is written by the National Center for Education Statistics, at the system of evaluation is a joke. The NCES authors themselves warn that there are ""Cautions in Interpretation"" in their sections of report. Various individuals and organizations have used the report to discredit private school voucher programs. The NAEP does not even employ a random survey. Again, as I stated in my previous arguments, many of the marks of private schools are inflated, which makes it even more important to have a common standard of education via public schools. Con states: ""We are not debating that only one is good for society."" I never said that only one is good for society. Con states: ""In the same way, public schools are cheaper, but they have less teacher attention to each student, they have bigger class sizes, and they have more bullying and teasing"". There's much more weapon possession, alchohal use, and drug use at public schools, and some parents just want their kids out of that atmosphere, and their willing to pay big money to do so."" Again, Con""s argument has a confounding factor. Richer kids tend to be more well-behaved than poorer kids. If the same students were put in private schools, they probably wouldn""t fare any better. Con states: ""If one family sent their kids to a private school, those kids would be more prepared for college because the parents would feel obligated to get involved, the kid would feel guilted into working harder because of how much of a sacrifice it is to go there, and the public school kid wouldn't be as prepared for college."" This may not necessarily be a good thing. As one private school student acknowledged, ""at university it""s a lot more independent, a lot more about self-motivation"", and he admitted that private school students would be unprepared for the ""independence"". As I pointed out in the previous round, public school students often do better than private school students when they are in the same environment (Con has not refuted my argument, so I extend it). In conclusion, public schools have several edges over private schools: They do not promote social classes, which private schools does. Public schools are essential for any meritocracy. Public schools are accessible to everyone (Con did not refute my argument from the first round, so I extend it), while private schools are selective. Public schools provide a common standard of education, which provide a more level playing field (Con again did not refute my argument from the first round, so I extend it), while private schools do not. Public schools foster independence, while its higher pay attracts better teachers. Public schools, unlike private schools, are not restricted by budget limits. With proper management, public schools can be more versatile than private schools and more beneficial for the ""public"". http://www.bloomberg.com... http://www.moe.gov.sg... http://www.theglobeandmail.com... http://www.heritage.org..."	PRO	132
132	Sc5b8d1f0-A7dece8e8	Is Online College better then Traditional College (Pro=Yes) (Con=No)	Thanks for a friendly, educated debate. It was my first, but won't be my last. I do agree there are some benefits of online college, in certain situations. If you can not afford traditional college, and can't get the scholarships and programs I mentioned above, then online college is a very viable option. I don't entirely agree with your last point. What kind of opportunities? If you mean being able to pick a particular major without having to go to a select choice of colleges, then yes, I agree. Online college does not offer the social opportunities and athletic opportunities traditional college can offer. Certain jobs will look to see how confident you are working alone and with others. Traditional college is a life experience, that will really shape the way you look at the world. Thanks for debate, voters please vote.	CON	133
133	S5d3f8690-A14ca56b0	Curent high school education should not be mandatory	"Thanks to CON for a great debate. A summary of my arguments below for the final round. C1: It will free up economic resources. CON does not deny that not making high school mandatory will free up economic resources. He has also yet to show how those that those with a job that does not require formal education will benefit from a high school education. Even those jobs that ""require"" a high school diploma, can use the equivalent GED instead, which is simply just a test that does not require four years of schooling. Thus mandatory high school wastes both the tax payer's resources (taxes could be used for other sources) and the student's (he/she could spend his/her time doing something else). C2: Most necessary information is taught through K-8 CON has never denied that a person with a K-8 education cannot function properly in the United States. However, CON does not think someone with a K-8 education can get. However, I have shown numerous jobs that do not require a high school diploma which I have explained, and can be found here [1] and here [2]. CON does not find those jobs to be ""good"" jobs which are subjective. However, they do exist and will still exist even if everyone had a PhD, which CON has not denied. CON has argued that those that are not educated will not be able to vote ""properly"". However, since voting is not mandatory, therefore voting is not ""necessary"". C3: It will improve high school education CON has not really made a good rebuttal against this but instead has used red herring arguments (Ex; Stating that middle school education is a problem). He states that my reasoning is poor, but I will explain my reasoning as clear as possible: (a)High school students who do not want to learn do the following: cause disruptions, do not listen, skip school and/or do not study. These disruptions cause high school teachers to focus more on controlling these students then actually teaching. Also, since these students do not listen or study, the teacher is forced to go over material at a slower and ""dumb down"" the curriculum so these students will pass. (b)High school teachers do not like these students. This is something that has been observed (Teachers complain constantly complain about them and for rational reasons). So here's what these teachers do, they quit. Therefore, by requiring these students that do not want education to stay, you are lowering the supply of competent teachers. (c)Less students, means fewer teachers. Less teachers means the proportion of unqualified teachers can be reduced. Since the demand for science teachers with an undergraduate degree in science far exceeds the supply, by reducing the supply, this shortage can be reduced or eliminated. (d)If there are fewer students that do not want a high school education, then high school teachers could get paid more, since less disruptive students would cut cost of education, especially for disciplinary actions. Paying teachers more would increase the supply of qualified teacher. (e)The actions described above have been observed in other countries. Likewise CON has not provided any alternative theories why college education is much better in the united states than high school education, despite the main difference between high school and college education in the US is that one is mandatory (for the most part) while the other is not. C4: Mandatory high school education directly infringes on the freedom of others CON does not deny this statement. However CON believes that some freedom should be infringed, even though social contract theory states that freedoms should only be infringed if it infringes on others rights. CON does not disagree with social contract theory yet making high school mandatory is a direct violation of social contract theory since not going to high school does not infringe on the rights of others. My opponent also agrees that forcing someone to go to a Justin Bieber concert or have sex is immoral. However like education (a)Sex and music have their benefit, as cited earlier (b) Some people are willing to even pay for it, so there's obviously a benefit Yet, like education, it does not benefit everyone, and infringes on other's right. CON also uses an appeal to emotion, that our forefather would want us all to have an education, with no substance to support that claim. Now my opponent's main arguments: ""1. High school has benefits."" A.It does not benefit everyone This has been my opponent's number one assertion in the debate. My opponent appears to believe that everybody loves money and that nobody wants a job working as either a driver or a janitor. However there is: (a) A whole anti-consumer movement, cited, so not everybody loves money, or at the very least do not want a stressful job. This is more than enough evidence that not everyone likes money. Lyrics also an important part of a song (why else have lyrics in the first place) and Papa Roach's message of rejecting consumerism is clear. (b)Notice the occupation with the highest suicide. Not the janitor, but medical doctors, the highest educated and paid occupation. http://www.edubook.com... (c)As stated in contention 1, high school does not benefit everyone, since not everyone obtains a job that involves traditional education. CON has yet to prove that every job requires a high school diploma and that these jobs will still exist even after college. CON states that there are schools that there are colleges that offer music programs and actor programs, yet most of the famous actor/actresses and musicians do not attend these programs. Clearly it does not benefit everyone. B.If it benefits someone, he/she can enter voluntarily. Also, CON believes that if school benefits us, then people will not voluntarily enter. I reject this premise since it is illogical. Even if a person makes the decision to not attend high school the person can make the following thought process, and return to high school. Thought process: (a)I either cannot find a job or hate my job (b)If I get an education, I can find a job or get a new job (c)Person gets a high school degree Also notice how after high school, many people enter higher education or college even though it is not required. ""2. You will find a subject that you will enjoy in high school which leads to college"" Also, CON believes that it is through high school education that you will discover subjects, learn to enjoy these subjects, and this will lead to a job. I reject the notation. These subjects are already taught from K-8, many subjects for certain jobs are not taught or required in high school. I also have given many examples of how one can develop an interest in a career without the aid of high school. Also, notice how in Round 3, CON keeps on stating ""children"" would never have heard of these subjects, ""children"" become interested in something. High school students are TEENAGERS, not children. If high school students become interested in these subjects before high school, then this argument is negated. ""3. More informed about society and know how government works"" CON states that the uneducated will not know how to vote ""properly"". However, the ill-informed will not care about voting, bad politicians will be exposed through negative campaigning, and it is not difficult to go on the internet and do a web search to learn terms you do not understand. If one knows how to read and write, then one can educate himself/herself about matters not learned in school. One does not have to learn everything from school, because he or she can find help guides or do a web search for information he/she needs to know. Even those with college educations do not know everything about how everything works so he/she can look up information him or herself. [1]http://www.ehow.com... [2]http://careerplanning.about.com..."	PRO	134
134	S7519549b-Ac7a3ca01	Animals are worth more	"Animals are being mistreated all over the USA and even though the focus on animal rights has increased, I believe there are still some big issues concerning animal rights. The human race might have been created superior to animals. That does not give us the right to treat them like they are worth nothing. Animals do have moral, if there is a lack of moral it lies with the people who are being cruel to animals. Animals are not cruel to other animals the same way we are. Predators obviously live from killing and feeding on other animals because that is how they survive. Humans also to some extent live from meat but the difference is that we breed the animals for food and the animal does not live a normal life when they are bred. We keep them in an environment that is not natural for them. We keep them in overcrowded places where they are hurt because their needs are not fulfilled. Some say that humans are more important than animals. I believe that animals are here for a reason the same way humans are, therefore they are equally worth. Obviously animals cannot have the same rights as humans because they are not as ""intelligent"" as us. Although they might be less intelligent they should still have the right to be treated fairly and have the right to live a nearly natural life. The organization ""World Animal Protection"" found that there are benefits from animal rights concerning humans and the environment. -Raising animals humanely can use less feed, fuel and water than intensive farming, reducing costs and pollution -Humane farms can create jobs, boost profits and keep local food supplies healthy -By farming crops and livestock, humane farms can reduce environmental damage recycling nutrients and improving the soil -Greenhouse gas emissions are often reduced when animals are healthy and have good welfare."	PRO	135
135	S45570f76-Aa22f7d1d	In the United States, the Electoral College should be abolished.	"The Electoral College should be abolished for the reason that it is an undemocratic system. The United States, and all other nations should strive for a more democratic system. This is supported by the following arguments 1:The Electoral College is a winner-take-all system on the state level. In the Electoral College, a candidate needs not win people over to their side, merely states. In this system, the minority of voters inside of a state can easily be disregarded. For example, in Oklahoma, the winner of the state was Donald Trump. Yet, Donald Trump only won 949,136 votes, or 65.32% of that population. That means that the other roughly 35% of the state's population might as well stay home. In a strictly popular vote system, every vote matters. This means that the system in place is extremely bad for states where the population is not majorly on one side or the other. Take, for example, Michigan, which was won out by 0.3 percent. Michigan ignored 49.7% of its own population. That is extremely undemocratic and does not belong in a nation that prides itself on its democracy. http://www.politico.com... 2: The Electoral College is unfavorably skewed towards smaller states. The Electoral College works on the system of adding two votes to each state before including population into the mix. Because of this, smaller states are unfairly boosted up so that each person inside of the state has their vote worth more. For example, according to population, Alaska should get one electoral vote, but instead gets 4. California, by contrast, should get 52, but instead gets 55. By using simple mathematics, we can determine that each Alaskans vote is 3 times larger than it should be, whereas Californians is 1.05 times larger than it should be (55/52). As a result, an Alaskan's vote is roughly 2.9 times more important than a Californians. In a democratic system, each vote should count as just one vote. Yet, the Electoral College sets up a scenario where states are rewarded for low population with proportionally higher popular votes. http://state.1keydata.com... 3: The Electoral College does not allow electors to vote for people from their home state. In the first words of the Twelfth Amendment, ""The electors shall meet in their respective states and vote by ballot for President and Vice-President, one of whom, at least, shall not be an inhabitant of the same state with themselves."" Or, in other words, Electors cannot vote for people who come from their own states. This means that certain candidates are practically ineligible by birth in larger states. For example, if someone lived in California, then that state's electors would be obligated to vote for someone else, even if the person won their home state. Not only does the Electoral College disagree with the idea of home states, it actually bans them. Even if this part of the Electoral College is not practiced right now, the potential for it to be used in the future remains an omen of issues that the Electoral College presents. The Constitution 4: The Electoral College relies on a First Past the Post System The First Past the Post System, (or Plurality Voting), is a voting system with simple rules. Everyone votes for one person, and the person with the most votes wins. However, there are other systems out there that are more democratic in their approach. For example, Single Transferable Vote systems use a ranking system. This negates what is known as the Spoiler Effect. For example, in the year 2000, Ralph Nader ran, and won a sizable amount of votes. This was enough to cause a shift that led to Al Gore losing the Presidential race. A more recent example might have been Gary Johnson skewing the election, taking votes from certain candidates. http://www.cbsnews.com... 5: First Past the Post systems are against Third Party Candidates. Although it might seem the Single Transferable Vote system is strange, it definitely helps have a more balanced system. First Past the Post incentivizes a two-party system because of what is known as Strategic Voting. Essentially, Strategic Voting is a theory that claims that populations will tend towards two parties over time under First Past the Post because unfavorable candidates are seen as impractical to vote for. Think about a candidate such as Ralph Nader or Gary Johnson. A part of the populous could have agreed, and yet decided that a more practical candidate is the solution. The Electoral College intensifies this problem by not only having Strategic voting on a national level, but on a state level. Now, people not only vote against their interests because of the nation's undemocratic system, but because of the winner take all system of the states implemented by the Electoral College. http://science.sciencemag.org... 6:The Electoral College allows for minority presidents Presidents that develop a minority of the votes may sound like an issue not found in America, but it is an issue. In 10.6% of past elections, the losing candidate became president because of the Electoral College. In fact, in the past 5 elections, since 2000, almost half of the elections have been handed over to the more unpopular candidate. Due to the importance that the presidential election holds, it seems that a 40% failure rate of the system should not be tolerated. In a democracy, the country should be able to agree on whether or not the process is fair, even if some people don't like the outcome. The Electoral College goes against the most fundamental principle of democracy. http://www.bradford-delong.com... 7:The Electoral College creates swing states Swing States are an issue in American politics. Essentially, states that have relatively large voting margins can be safely ignored, regardless of population. Because of this, swing states are states that are inflated in importance due to the fact that some states will tend towards certain parties. For example, in New York Hillary Clinton won by 58.8% of the population. That near 60-40 split made it so that Neither Donald Trump nor Hillary Clinton needed to campaign or listen to that state. The same issue comes with 40 of the 50 states. Just ten states were undecided by the time an election comes around. In any other system, where people are prioritized above the states, those 40% of Republicans, Libertarians, and Green Party members, would have a voice in New York. http://www.politico.com... 8:The Electoral College does not include territories. Not all American citizens live in the United States. Puerto Rico, for instance, has 3.5 million residents, none of whom are a part of the presidential election. That would put its population above 11 of the actual states. Guam, America Samoa, and the Virgin Islands, are all territories that are a part of the country. Yet, the Electoral College denies the existence of more people outside of the states. This is perhaps the most undemocratic part of the Electoral College. In this instance, it ignores the facade of being democratic in some light to completely ignoring some people who could vote. This is an issue that needs to be addressed, and cannot be addressed under the Electoral College. http://everything-everywhere.com... In summary, The Electoral College should be abolished because of the undemocratic way that it functions. It creates a disparity that cannot be solved under the Electoral College, and protects a voting system that needs to be changed. I thank the con for accepting, and turn the stage to him."	PRO	136
136	Sc1b11a97-A110f586c	Free Education	I thank Con for their response. I don't think that in this debate Con gave any good reason to not have public education. Con tried to justify no public education using everything from affordability issues in or around Newyork, to Europe, to taxation, to implying that if you disagree with their proposition you are a communist. Trouble is there were no real explicitly clear arguments here that resulted in the conclusion that therefore public education should not exist. It seems to me Con had an over-reaching theme of trying to tie in taxation to eradication of public education, but I showed that the argument that something is funded by taxation should be eliminated as an untenable line of reasoning, as this would also mean the elimination of police, military etc etc. As such I maintain we heard no good arguments to support the conclusion that public education should not exist. So moving onto the arguments for public education which included... Economic Con I think did agree there are positive gains for having public education, but tried to refute this argument implying that a diploma and/or education that would be more common with the existence of public education makes it worthless. But as I showed in the eyesight example, something being common doesn't equate to it being worthless. Civic I argued for public education in support of modern democracy, Con cites the US constitution, but the US constitution does not equate to thou shalt not have public education. Fairness I argued for the existence of public education in support of addressing the unfairness that some people would have in not having access to edcuation because they were born into bad circumstances. Con made reference to the cruelty of nature, I showed that the cruelty of nature is not a good guide as to what we should and shouldn't do, lest Con parents eat Con as some animals have been known to do. Benevolence Ironically the benevolence point came as a result of Cons claim and concern for the USA being the most benevolent. As I argued public education is a good way for the pursuit of this Benevolence that Con is so concerned for, and I don't think they refuted this. I think there have been better arguments for the existence of public education than arguments for its elimination. As such I ask the vote go to the Pro. Thanks for the debate.	PRO	137
137	Sc5b8d1f0-A32d40b94	Is Online College better then Traditional College (Pro=Yes) (Con=No)	That is very true my friend, but online colleges have a lot of advantages over traditional colleges. One is that there are so many of them at your finger tips waiting to be used. Second they cost less depending on what college you choose. Three they open up more opportunities then a traditional college. While some people might choose a traditional college, I would recommend an online college. Good Luck to my opponent.	PRO	138
138	Sf49a4f1e-Af31cefdb	An animal's life is worth just as much as a human's.	"I think this debate would go better if Pro had explained what he meant by a life having ""worth"" in his opening. I took him to mean something like intrinsic worth, and I expected him to argue that killing an animal is just as immoral as killing a human. But now it appears that he was talking, not about intrinsic worth, but instrumental worth. Instrumental worth is the relative worth something or someone has depending on how useful or appreciated they are. That creates some ambiguity with the resolution. If he means to say that all dogs and cats are worth as much as all humans, then his resolution is false. After all, not even every dog has equal worth. Some dogs are useless and some are very helpful. The same is true with humans. If he means that there is at least one dog out there who has the same intrinsic worth of at least one human out there, then I'd have to concede the debate. I'm not going to concede it just yet because I'm not sure what his original intent was. Here's anotherh difficulty with his resolution and his defense. Let's say there's a drug sniffing dog who is really good at what he does. In that case, the dog would have a lot of worth to the police officers who use him to catch criminal. But that dog wouldn't be worth a hill of beans to the criminals who don't want to be caught! So the same dog can be both very worthy and completely unworthy depending on who you ask. There's no objective truth to the quesiton of worth the dog has any worth. It's relative to the people who value them or don't value them. That's the nature of instrumental worth. The same dog or human can have a great deal of instrumental worth to one person but no worth at all to another person. Instrumental worth is necessarily a relative or subjective thing. There can't be any such thing as objective instrumental worth. So if pro means to say that objectively an animal's life is worth just as much as a human's, his resolution can't possibly be true. If he means to make a relative claim, as he should, then how will you judge the debate? There's no right or wrong answer. To him, dogs may have the same instrumental worth as humans, and to me they don't. But let's suppose that what he means is that when you compare how instrumentally worthy dogs and cats have been to humans to how instrumentally worthy humans have been to each other, they are about equal. Given how he argued, that seems to be what he meant. I question whether it's true, though. I grant that dogs and cats have had a great deal of instrumental worth to various people, but what evidence is there that they have had just as much instrumental worth as humans have had to each other. It seems to me that under this understanding of the resolution, humans have far greater instrumental worth than dogs and cats for the following reasons: 1. We typically love our brothers, sisters, children, and parents more than we love our pets. 2. Almost all of us have friends and family, but not all of us have pets. 3. While a dog can provide protection from time to time, humans are more reliable and effective in that regard. Even police dogs would be utterly useless without the guidence of their human masters. Far more humans have died defending their country than dogs or cats. 4. Humans bring much more to a relationship than dogs or cats. If you marry a human, you can share the chores, have deep and intimate conversations, procreate, and take them with you pretty much anywhere without having to pick up their poop. In the next round, I hope that Pro will explain to us very clearly what he means by the resolution, taking account of all the different ways it could be interpreted. Thank you."	CON	139
139	S15cbc009-A30c73485	The US should Ensure Access to Quality Education For Everyone	Resolution: The US should Ensure Access to Quality Education for Everyone I’d like to thank my opponent for debating this topic with me. I don’t think my opponent has successfully argued for the resolution, “The US should Ensure Access to Quality Education For Everyone”. There certainly is a lot of appeal to emotion regarding the fairness of the rich getting private education but not much in the way of why the US should ensure this. Pro concedes that the US Constitution doesn’t allow for the US to meddle in education. Sure, the states perhaps should ensure access but this not the argument that Pro initially makes. You can see the gradual concession below: Round 2: “If it is the will of the people, or if it benefits the people, it should be passed into federal law.” Round 4: “The states can ensure it because they are the ones responsible for education, and the federal government can ensure it by providing a financial incentive to the states.” Round 5: “In fact, they seem to have no authorization to give the state any money for education. Hmmm... I maintain that the states and people are still able to ensure quality education.” The states are not the US and it was clear his original intent was for policy to be set at the Federal level. So, in this respect pro concedes the resolution and agrees with my position. But even if Pro hadn’t conceded the resolution, pro’s premises don’t necessarily support his conclusion. P1) No matter how hard you work education levels determined by how rich you are While the ability to pay has an impact on education, 53% of those who were poor at sometime in their lives went on to college. There are multiple ways for the non-rich to get to college: scholarships, grants and loans. The government, private scholarships and even the schools themselves offer financial aid to try to even the playing field. The reason 47% of the poor don’t make it to college? There’s no way to be certain but some of it probably has to do with cultural reasons such as a higher value placed on working than education, etc. I think the claim that I assume the poor are less intelligent is a red herring. I want all Americans to succeed and I think Pro and I just disagree on the way to get there. Clearly, if some non-rich attain higher education, then there is more at play then simply how much money one has. If wealth is not the only determinant of education levels then this premise cannot be true. P2) Racial segregation will be decreased with everyone having the same knowledge Opportunities denied to blacks due to racial segregation is completely different than segregation due to income. Blacks were forcibly oppressed during segregation and not allowed any opportunity to succeed. Not having money for private education is a barrier but not an insurmountable one and certainly not banned by law as was the case during racial segregation. Pro’s premise changed during the debate from racial segregation to economic segregation. Even if the two were somehow synonymous, economic segregation does not necessarily mean a better education. Being from the Chicago area, I’m sure Pro is aware that there are quite a number of high quality public institutions and that some are even better than private schools. In the same website Pro gets their private school statistics from it says that 85% of rich families send their children to public school. The fact that the rich can send their kids to private school but don’t doesn’t strike me as a ringing endorsement of private schools as superior. Even if private school were somehow proven superior doesn’t mean that the US (Federal government) should implement a voucher program. P3) Educational placement should be according to ability I agree with Pro here that educational placement should be according to ability. But Pro’s proposal seems to indicate that all the rich and non-rich who are smart enough will go to private school. If we assume that private school is quality education and all the smart kids left then public schools would be full of “children left behind” in poorly performing schools. This would negate the resolution in that not every child would have access to quality education. Conclusion: The burden of proof was on Pro to prove that the US should ensure access to quality education for everyone. Pro conceded that the US, as in the Federal government, should not ensure access to quality education for everyone. Also, pro’s arguments do not seem to support the resolution. As a libertarian, I agree with Pro that it is the states and not the US that should ensure quality education. Private schools may be a part of the solution but I think that there is inherently anything superior about private schools than public ones. Perhaps, the solution is for the states to improve their public schools. Pro seemingly hasn’t even considered this option. I’d like to thank my opponent for the debate and look forward to seeing more of them on DDO!	CON	140
140	S474849b5-A24f11f89	Electoral College	I believe the electoral college is a good system. We are both Ron Paul supporters so this should be fun. Present your case.	PRO	141
141	Sc5b8d1f0-A5bc95b67	Is Online College better then Traditional College (Pro=Yes) (Con=No)	That is true but when you said that students wont put in 110% in their work, maybe if they liked working and got to choose where they wanted to work then that would motivate them to work harder. Sure some students would prefer to work at a traditional college then that's fine but online college would make students more comfortable to work at home. Also there are more human resources online then at a college. I like to call this resource the internet. You cant find this kinda information at a college.	PRO	142
142	S15cbc009-A7ef626a9	The US should Ensure Access to Quality Education For Everyone	"Effort is a key determinate in educational outcome You agree that wealth is not the sole determinant but I was refuting your earlier argument that no matter how hard you work that education levels are determined by how “rich” one is. A recent study finds that although poverty makes one less likely to ever attend college, still 53% of those who had ever experienced poverty during childhood attended college [1]. For nearly half of these non-rich to attend college they must have been afforded that chance in some way. Private primary education schools as well as Universities offer generous scholarships, grants, loans to go to these schools. The non-rich already have the access to quality education if private schooling/University is what you consider “quality education”. True, two people’s successes doesn’t prove anything other than it is indeed possible to overcome circumstances. Sorry, but you did mangle my proposal. I apologize for not making my proposal clear. My proposal was that the rich be required to excel in public primary and public secondary education before attending private primary and secondary education institutions. However, I suppose that this could be extended to universities, that you have to succeed in public primary and secondary before attending a private university. The poor and middle class would receive scholarships for attending private primary and secondary institutions: scholarships financed by an increase of taxes for the rich. I apologize for not defining rich in my initial statement. Rich are those abundantly supplied with resources, means, or funds, according to dictionary.com. In other words, those who can easily finance their child's education are rich. Those who cannot do so are classified as non-rich. I’m sorry for mangling your proposal. I still don’t see how your proposal solves access to quality education. You have not defined quality education other than by assuming private schools do this. In order for your proposal to prove your resolution you would need to show that private schools are quality education. Otherwise you are only arguing that the non-rich should be given money to go to private schools not that they should be given money for a quality education. You refer to the fact that C students who are maybe not so driven in public primary and secondary may be more driven in post-secondary. I ask: why would this be the case? At any rate, even in the current system, if you are C student you wouldn't get into Harvard, or MIT. I didn’t say they would be more driven in post-secondary only that they might. But this is moot now that you’ve clarified your proposal. You discuss that segregation is ""just wrong."" I won't argue, but why do you suppose that is the case? Perhaps words like equality, fairness, and life quality figure in the argument that segregation is, as you say, ""just wrong?"" The reason we all think that segregation is wrong is because we believe in the fact that all people should be afforded equal quality of life. Quality of life correlates directly to the quality of education. Besides; by disagreeing, aren't you segregating the rich from the poor? Isn't this, as you say, ""just wrong?"" You still haven’t proven private education is quality education. I apologize for my earlier ambiguity; people and/or states and/or the federal government can ensure that this proposition prevails. The people can ensure it because although I agree whole-heartedly with Alexander Tytler, his statements do not form a basis for us to suddenly trash the constitution. The states can ensure it because they are the ones responsible for education, and the federal government can ensure it by providing a financial incentive to the states. Okay since you make this argument, where is the constitutional authority for the Federal government to provide financial incentives to the states for education? What form would these incentives take? Which of the enumerated powers are you referring to (Art I, Section 8 US Constitution)? First, I am not proposing equality in wealth. Secondly, I am not, as I clarified above, proposing to use the federal treasury to enact these changes. If the Federal government ensures this proposition with financial incentives, then where does the money come from if not from the federal treasury? CONCLUSION Comparing segregation to wealth disparity is not only a false analogy by somewhat offensive. The analogy fails because there are many reasons for wealth disparity but segregation was based on skin color alone. Thank you for the debate. I look forward to your closing. [1] http://paa2009.princeton.edu..."	CON	143
143	Sea22c804-A453be0d2	The Electoral College Needs to be Replaced	"Most of my arguments will more be about why the E.C. is bad and limiting my arguments to a proportional system. The Electoral College has lost its purpose: First, the Electoral College has lost its original purpose of representing smaller states. To see a modern example of this, we can look to the top toss-up states from 2012 and 2016: Florida, Arizona, Ohio, Pennsylvania, North Carolina, Wisconsin, Georgia, Missouri. What do all of these states have in common? They have more than 10 Electoral College Votes, while there are few toss-up states with less. In 2012, the 4 top states in campaign spending are included in the list above. Smaller states are left behind while big states are deciding elections. Wasn't everyone saying Trump had to win Florida (29 E.C. votes) to have a chance of winning? Next, the reason the Electoral College was put in place was to protect against poor popular opinion. By now, though, 30 of the 50 states have instituted laws which bind electors to their constituents pick. That 60% of all the states, well enough for a majority itself, a poor presidential leader could easily be selected, as some say Trump was. Now, some positives of change: Winner-take-all The US is a representative democracy. That's known, so why does our election system not represent equally? The winner takes all system of the current E.C. fails to represent everyone equally, and we can again look to our big state friends for this. Florida has a diverse population, with a rural Panhandle to the bright cultures of Orlando and Miami. All this is represented by 29 Electoral College Votes, which usually comes down to a few suburban voters. This is not a representation of everyone, only a few people. With that said, a proportional system of allocating votes would be wise because it solves for many of the current problems. Equal Representation A proportional system would help provide equal representation and show the true will of voters by distributing a more realistic result. Take Texas: Known as a usual safe Republican state, Texas' 38 Electoral College votes usually go to the Republican candidate, but in reality, Texas has a large Democratic base. Instead of a 38-0, unequal result, Texas would've gone 20 for Trump and 17 for Clinton, that's a lot closer than most would expect (the extra one would've gone to Johnson, just showing how true of a representation it is). The proportional system helps restore the original intent of representative democracy. Small States Matter As mentioned earlier, the Electoral College fails to represent small states as originally intended. But a proportional system would allow for small states to have equal representation by making them a part of the conversation, you have to focus on these smaller states to assure that you win their Electoral College Votes, because every vote counts now, you can't rely on California's 55 or Texas' 38 to win you 270. Why Democrats and Republicans Agree Change Is Needed The reason both parties should agree with this type of thinking is very clear for both parties. Republicans: Always against the popular vote, the system is not a reality and is a reason I'm specifically not advocating for it. Republicans have lost the popular vote in the past 3 elections, and its only getting worse, especially with the rise in Hispanic voting population in many key states such as Arizona and Florida, which are needed to win in the current Electoral College System. But a proportional system would allow Republicans to stay competitive in states they are quickly losing ground in and therefore still be able to some influence. Democrats: President Gore, President Clinton. With a proportional system, this would've been a reality, not a revenge fantasy. A major reason why this didn't happen was the group of ""Red Wall"" voters in the South and Midwest preventing Democrats from winning key states. Democrats would be able to expand their voter reach to their base ""hidden"" by the large Red Wall, such as in Texas. The winner take all system especially hurts Democrats, a proportional system would allow them to retain the presence of their base."	PRO	144
144	Sea22c804-A819a1d5b	The Electoral College Needs to be Replaced	"Before I begin, I would like to note that the Electoral College is a fairly proportional system based on how many electoral votes each state receives- each state has a number of electoral votes based on the number of Senators + Representatives. Because the number of Senators is two for each state and Iowa has 4 representatives, it has 6 total electoral votes, currently. The reason that this is proportional is because the majority of the votes are based on the number of Representatives- which are set to represent the state's districts proportionally. The reason I say ""fairly"" is because of course, we have gerrymandering which is believed to impact how proportional the districts are and in turn, how proportional the electoral votes are. Here are my points: Age) The Electoral College has been electing the Presidents using the same process/system for over 214 years. It has been only ratified once- around thirty years after its creation. ( Amendment 12) After this ratification, however, we have remained to have the same system. Speaking of Amendment 12, I would like to note how, it only took a couple elections before we realized that the Electoral College had issues in representing the nation, thus we changed it in 1804, with the Amendment. Yet, once again I reiterate how we have not changed it since. The Process) During the first part of the Electoral College Elector selection process, candidates for Elector positions are nominated/ voted on by party members during meetings such as state party conventions. In other words, we the people decide on our electors, assuming each of us belongs and associates with a party during the process. 48 out of 50 states have remained with the same process of selection when it comes to Electors ( winner-take-all system in which the party of the president with the most popular vote in a state is the party of the Electors that are chosen to represent the state in the Electoral vote- essentially, the belief is that the popular vote accurately represents the Electoral vote through the concept of the party matching that of the winner of the popular vote. This belief has been tested before, and while it is true that there have been elections where they DO NOT match like the 2016 Election, these have been rare occurrences.) The winner-take-all-system process is where I would argue that it can actually benefit the Democratic party- as I have stated/ suggested above, the popular vote determines the party that controls the state. So by this logic, the Democratic Party can control the state. However, the one thing to note is that there have been Electors who vote for candidates NOT of their own party or simply a different candidate. In fact, it has been reported that there were 7 Faithless Electors ( those who don't vote for the ones they had pledged- to whom are typically the prominent candidates of their party during the Elections.) The Opinions of the People) According to Gallup, 47% want to keep Electoral College, which has increased by 12% since 2011, when participants of a 2016 poll were asked about their preferred method for electing the president. [1] [1] http://content.gallup.com... What It All Suggests) To me, the age of the system suggests that, we the people of the nation, have not had sufficient reason to replace the system yet, even if we believe there is sufficient reason to argue against it- this is based on the fact that there has been little done to even ratify it nor replace it. The process of the system suggests that we have a lot more to do with the Electoral College, specifically the Electors, than we believe. It also suggests that the popular vote really does match with the Electoral College vote EXCEPT on those rare occurrences. The opinions of the people on the system have fairly obvious suggestions- the pople DO believe it is a sufficient enough system. Overall, the facts- to me- suggest that the Electoral College is sufficient, according to the people. Or, at the very least, it is slowly BECOMING sufficient in the people's minds. This is why I support/ claim my position statement that the current Electoral College system is sufficient. On a separate note, do you happen to have evidence- specifically quotes- for your ""Why Democrats and Republicans Agree Change Is Needed"" part? I personally have not heard from Republicans about their party being against the popular vote, for example. I am also confused on some your wording if you don't mind clarifying. One notable example I have read is ""revenge fantasy."" My apologies for this being a bit wordy and if some of this doesn""t not make complete sense. Forgive me for not following your rules there by technically rebutting. Please let me know if something doesn't make sense and I will be glad to clarify. Thanks for the read!"	CON	145
145	Sf6f74b-A641c9c92	The Electoral College is Misrepresentative	"I thank my opponent for his final response and will now conclude. My opponent's final statement was this: ""The electoral college is not representative of America that was the point of this debate"" Yes, I agree. This was my opponent's point of the debate. However, he has failed to uphold that resolution. He has provided no evidence showing that it did not represent America. The electoral college is THE method by which we elect a president in this nation, this seems to me to be a key indication that it is representative. However, let us examine the resolution: ""The Electoral College is Misrepresentative"" This does not mention what the Electoral college misrepresents or represents. I just assumed that my opponent meant that it represented incorrectly, dubiously, or poorly. It does none of the above. I have provided ample sources showing how the electoral college adequately represents the votes of each one of the panelists. Their names are provided in the source I gave, it is clear as day that there is no misrepresentation. The fact that my opponent keeps saying that there is, does not make it so. I can keep calling my opponent a liberal, but that does not make him a liberal. Since my opponent has failed to uphold his resolution and failed to counter my arguments, I urge a CON vote. Thank you to the audience and to my opponent."	CON	146
146	Sb295af9a-Aace91724	The Electoral College Should Be Abandoned	It seems as though every time I find myself in a discussion regarding the Electoral College I hear people saying that it should be abandoned in favor of a nationwide popular vote for the presidency. This argument is so completely absurd that my skin crawls every time I hear it. The Founding Fathers knew what they were doing, and they created a structure of government that has lasted for over two centuries. Furthermore, countries all around the world have emulated our democracy. The Electoral College is part of the U.S. Constitution for very good reasons and anyone who opposes it hasn't done his/her homework. In my experience, people only argue against the Electoral College when the candidate they favor for president doesn't win the election. Is there someone out there willing to discuss the issue of abandoning the Electoral College System and replacing it with a Nationwide Popular Vote?	CON	147
147	Sc1b11a97-Aa044f79f	Free Education	"I thank Con for their reply, in the last round they managed not to insinuate that some one who dis agree with their position is a communist, this is progress.........of a kind. Public education & taxation Public education is not the sole reason for taxation or tax rises that's why I find it deceptive for Con to say..."" The constant rise in our tax dollars pay for that free education."" as this implies that all taxation and tax rises are caused by the existence of public education. Seeing that Con likes to remind us that nothing is ""free"", does Con think the military or police should be eliminated too ? I hear those stealth bombers are quite expensive. If Con doesn't think the army or police should be eliminated this shows that the fact that something is funded by taxation doesn't mean it should be eliminated such as public education. Benevolence Its an interesting how one can argue for the elimination of public education (affecting the poor, the have nots the most) while also reffering to benevolence. I merely repeat my question, would getting rid of public education in the USA or any other society make it more or less benevolent ? Seeing that Con is so concerned with the USA being benelovant cause as Con tells us...""It's the United States Constitution, a unique document that just happens to be the foundation of the most successful and benevolent society in the history of mankind."" then the USA should have some form of public education in the pursuit of this benelvolence. That its for me for round 4."	PRO	148
148	S717923bb-A577c33fb	A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.	"I want to start where my opponent ended. Her last argument: ""This quote by my opponent admits that a bird in the hand is NOT equal to two birds in the bush. Our resolution is that A bird in the hand IS equal to two in the bush."" No, it isn't. I never said that x is EQUAL to x+y; for most values of y, that would be a ridiculous statement. Our resolution is that the bird you hold is WORTH the two you do not have. It is a value statement, a weighing of the costs and benefits against the odds. My opponent says: ""The proverb is about risking one bird for two birds. We already know that two birds are double the amount of one bird."" This is a very simplistic and literal way of understanding the proverb. I've given sources to show that the proverb is not talking about literal birds, but about opportunities and advantages. If we are to assume it is only talking about the absolute value of birds, then a) it'd be completely wrong and counter-intuitive, and b) it would only apply to hunting. Proverbs are meant to boil down a weighty truth about everyday life into a simple memorable aphorism. The good thing you have now is better than all the good things you merely hope to have. Better to enjoy the advantages you have now then to sacrifice them for the mere possibility of gaining more later. A certain good is better than an uncertain better. I gave dictionary and cultural sources at the beginning to establish that this is the meaning of the proverb; my opponent may not argue a different meaning. She may only argue if it is right or wrong. I contend it is right, and I gave an entire page of logic breaking down all the possibilities, showing how it is right. She did not touch these. I showed how, in the vast majority of cases, it is better to keep what you have, as the odds are against you gaining anything by its sacrifice. She did not dispute my logic, or the conclusion. Disputing the meaning of the proverb would carry more weight if she had given sources equal and opposite to mine, showing a division amongst authorities over the meaning. She did not; there isn't any. I actually had to trim two dictionaries ad a blog post showing further agreement about the accepted meaning of this proverb. I can provide them and more if she continues to dispute the meaning. Extend all of my R2 arguments. To take the remainder of my opponent arguments, in order now: 1. As I just pointed out, we aren't necessarily talking about 1:2 ratios here. The ""birds in the bush"" may be worth anything or nothing, we can't know for sure until we have them. We also have no guarantee that we will get them. As I pointed out, belaboured, and drudged over in R2, the number of cases in which we gain by sacrificing what we have are outnumbered by the cases in we lose everything. If the odds are 5 to 1, in four cases we lose our bird and gain nothing. Only in one case do we get the other birds. If the odds are 65 to 1, in 64 cases we'd lose everything. The hungry man with a dollar may not have much, but he has a dollar. For that dollar he can buy five or six packs of ramen noodles, and have three meals a day for three days. He could save it, rake someone's lawn, earn $10, add his $1 to it, and have $11 to spend at a steakhouse. Or he could buy a lottery ticket for the MEGA Millions California Lottery at the current odds of 1 in 40 of winning anything, 1 in 176 million of winning the jackpot;[1] [2] lose, and have nothing at all. Hey, he had a chance of winning $75,000,000! That's worth sacrificing your only real chance of eating that night, isn't it? No, it's not. 1 in 176 million is not a reasonable chance to take. 1 in 40 is very long odds to risk anything valuable on. The reasonable thing to do is to keep what you have, not to gamble it on the off-chance that you might get something better. 2. For your love argument, the option always remains that you could try enjoying the companionship of the partner you have, instead of betraying them. You have no real reason to believe that you can find someone else better, and no real reason to be dissatisfied with the one you have (remember, the bird you have is a good thing, not an indifferent one. I went through that already at the beginning of R2. The value of x must be greater than 0 for the proverb to apply). It could just be your attitude towards your partner that needs to be changed. Either way, unless you have another prospect, and you are certain of gaining them, and you know that they are better for you than your current, and if and only if you have no sense of loyalty, it may be in your best interests to change partners. Otherwise, better not. A mildly good and pleasant partner is far better than no partner at all, and much better than a slightly better partner that you cannot enjoy because you feel so guilty about being a cad to your last one by dumping them. Human emotions are tricky things; you can make all the cost-benefit analysis you want, but they don't behave in a strictly logical way. This argument is hardly helping your case. This is the last time I will touch , unless you can set an objective number on human happiness. Subjective feelings about your partner prove nothing about this proverb. 3. Again with the squishy emotions. Hope and happiness are not tangible goods that you can barter your possessions for. Making emotional arguments may sway the voters, but it proves nothing about the resolution, which is clearly talking about opportunities, valuables, and advantages. If giving all your earthly possessions to the poor and sealing yourself up in a hermit's cell brings you utter bliss, it probably will be worth it to you; you cannot argue that this proverb is generally wrong off your isolated case, though. The vast majority of humanity seem to think that they are happiest living a non-ascetic lifestyle; whether they are right or wrong in this is beyond the scope of this debate. I agree, the bush may well hold something more valuable than you have. My point is, in most cases if you drop what you have to reach for the bush, you end up losing everything and gaining nothing. In those cases, it is better to keep what you have, no matter how good the birds in the bush are. 4. I am going to ignore your quotes. These men had a right to have these opinions, but that is all they are. To attempt to prove this proverb is generally wrong from these quotes is an appeal to authority, and is a fallacious argument. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Finally, let me point out that - because my opponent has chosen to argue against a meaning the proverb does not carry - my entire analysis from last round stands unchallenged. In no way does she attack my logic, she merely asserts that it is irrelevant since the proverbs means something else. I established the meaning of the proverb at the beginning of R2; I gave three different cultural dictionaries, who agreed in all essentials. I ask my opponent to address the current debate topic. Conclusion: We do not usually know for certain the value of the other birds. My opponent has given no real argument to dispute this. We do not usually know the odds of gaining the other birds, but it is usually less than 1 in 2. My opponent has not disputed this. My analysis, given last round, shows in most cases it is better to keep what you have, because in most case sacrificing it will not gain anything. My opponent has not disputed my analysis. Therefore, in most cases, is is better to keep what you have than to give it up for the possibility of uncertain gain. A bird in the hand is worth (not equal to, but worth) two in the bush. [1] http://www.calottery.com... [2] http://www.calottery.com..."	PRO	149
149	S1901e6eb-A28cdc4a4	The Electoral College	My argument is that the electoral college should be reserved, At most with minor reforms. The most important context to understand behind this debate is that we were not modeled as a democracy, And we are not a democracy. We are a republic. The difference is that a republic has representatives, Usually elected by the people, The government does not make actions directly by the vote of the people. In a democracy, People vote directly for government actions. The biggest reason for a republic is the idea of the tyranny of majority, Where the political majority will make decisions undermining the needs of the political minority, As is the case in direct democracy. The founding fathers greatly feared this concept, Where the majority will act against the minority in their votes. So, They made a government where the minority had relatively fair representation and power, This is why we have a senate and a house. It is a great compromise between the needs of the smaller states and the larger states. The house gives power fairly, Where bigger states have more of a say, The senate gives it unequally, Thus so small states have proper representation and are not ignored. The electoral college is designed directly off of congress, Where each state's electoral votes is their number of senators (2) plus their number of representatives. Thus the electoral college is there so small states have their say, Candidates have to pay attention to the needs of small states. This is not necessarily my full, Expanded argument but I will expand as the debate continues.	PRO	150
150	S863dddcf-A89a1c175	Formal education (K-12) ought to be compulsory in the United States	"Thanks to my opponent for posting the debate. :) PRO CASE 1. The state has an obligation to provide all citizens with the tools necessary to cultivate a satisfactory life. a. Education is necessary to survival. The trends of the U.S. job market are clear: specialization reigns supreme. ""Menial"" labor is not nearly as prevalent as it used to be. One must have at least a high school diploma, if not a college degree, to even begin to seek gainful employment. In fact, those few Americans who can find jobs without a diploma make around $400.00 per week. Those with college degrees can expect $1000.00 per week. Furthermore, those without diplomas ""enjoy"" an unemployment rate 6% higher than college graduates [1]. The types of employment most commonly offered to non-diploma holders all statistically pay under a given area's living wage [2]. Education is not optional for a US citizen to be successful. b. The state has both a contractual obligation to & a vested interest in educating its citizens. Consider social contract theory, which is arguably the fundamental basis of our Constitution and much of our auxiliary political ideology. If we can establish that education is necessary for each citizen to have, then the state must provide that education. Truancy and other educational laws seek to ensure that all citizens are offered facilities and faculty to provide such an education. At that point, students with diplomas will be able to seek employment or a college degree, as I stated in my subpoint A (in fact, high school graduates are now far more likely than past decades to seek that college degree [1]). Since the key to a successful state is successful citizens (as this puts less strain on socialistic programs like welfare and directly contributes to overall economic health and stability), the state has a clear interest in helping as many citizens as possible to well-paying, stable employment. c. Compulsion is the only way to ensure that all children have equal access to education. Without things like truancy laws, the poorest and most underserved students in the nation would be the ones to suffer without an education. Certainly, parents have the right to remove their child from public school for homeschooling or alternative educational environments. However, the concept of compulsion has always included such opt-outs. Making education non-compulsory, therefore, will only hurt those students who the state currently assists in making it to school. This enables those underserved students access to the education necessary to quit their sphere of poverty or abuse. Furthermore, educational research clearly links institutional structure and its safety to the success of at-risk students [5]. 2. Education is a valuable and fundamental part of any culture. a. Education reform is giving rise to valid curricula and instructional methods via the standards movement. Over the past decade or so, educational researchers have come to the overwhelming consensus that building unified goals, keeping in mind the most important parts of education, is the best way to ensure that all schools in the nation are being held accountable for student learning [3]. Though this movement is still comparatively young, it has already led to educational standards in all 50 states that are based on the most current educational philosophy. Oregon represents a perfect example of the standards movement in action. OAKS state tests in each subject area are revisited every year, as are the educational standards. Tests are adaptive, and consistently attempt to avoid the biases that standardized tests are often accused of containing. As an administrator of the OAKS exams in two different subject areas and a teacher who is required to employ Oregon's CIM educational standards [4] in her curriculum, I feel confident in vouching for their educational integrity. b. Public education is far more than just curricula. On the surface, education looks like the content standards I outlined above; it looks like science, math, English, social studies, etc. However, rarely are cognitive thinking skills, life skills, and social skills discussed as additional benefits. However, these are essential to positive citizenship in our representative democracy. Citizens must be self-sufficient, able to interact with a highly diverse society, and prepared to actively participate in their own governance. A public education is the most successful way to accomplish these goals. [1] http://www.bls.gov... [2] http://www.livingwage.geog.psu.edu... [3] http://www.sonoma.edu... [4] http://web1.ode.state.or.us... [5] http://www.focusas.com... CON CASE C1: 1. This entire argument tends to be based on, as my opponent points out, warrantless assertions. Even on an individual level, I object to the notion that my classes are like this. 2. The problems he is describing are never linked specifically to ""CE."" In fact, a number of nations that are out-competing the US in education all have CE, and none of those nations exhibit the same harms. He establishes no causation. 3. Cross-apply my 2A. The education system is poised for a change, and the educational theory of the past few years specifically and universally advocates a constructive teaching model, which is specifically student-centered. Nearly all future educators in the nation and any teacher that has graduated in the last 5 years knows and uses the constructive model. C2: 1. Cross-apply my 2A. In the link I provide, you can find hundreds of educational standards for the state of Oregon alone that specifically require all teachers in that state to impart cognitive thinking skills to their students through curriculum. 2. If parents want to homeschool their children, then a compulsory model won't stop them from doing so. The US has this infrastructure in place right now. 3. Cross-apply my 2B. Though I would argue that general knowledge of the world is absolutely necessary in order to enrich cognitive development, school isn't just about the subjects taught. Those subjects are only a gateway. 4. Cross-apply my 1C. Mandatory school attendance laws are the only reason the state is obligated to give underserved children an education at all. C3: 1. Going to high school does not stop a student from getting a job and gaining this experience. 2. Becoming part of the workforce without a diploma is nearly impossible, and if one does, he or she will not be able to survive, most likely. Cross-apply my 1A and all the data. Unless my opponent can also claim to change the entire structure of the American workforce, he's S.O.L. 3. Cross-apply my 1C. These underserved students, without the structure of CE, are most likely not going to have an education, since they don't have parents to guide them and/or resources at their disposal for education. These are provided right now by the sta"	PRO	151
151	S1901e66f-Af22b7579	The Electoral College	"Rebuttals Contention 1 The Pro attempts to rebut my argument concerning democratic principles is irrelevant as the US is not a direct democracy. This simply makes no sense, as the basis of a DEMOCRATIC republic is that it is a republic committed to democratic principles, namely the equality of influence. The example of the senate is, in fact, a red herring as it has nothing to do with the electoral college and should be disregarded because of this. Even if the Senate is a violation of democratic principles, this does not in any way justify the Pro’s argument nor does it delegitimize mine. As the Pro has not contested that the electoral college violates democratic principles, it has therefore been conceded. Contention 2 The allegation by the Pro that the electoral college is what causes undecided voters is simply illogical. People are undecided in every election, and eliminating the electoral college would do nothing to affect this. The Pro reiterates the claim that candidates would only campaign in their strongholds if the Electoral college were abolished, however as I previously pointed out this makes no sense, as there are not enough voters in these strongholds to secure an election, in addition to the fact that there are not enough voters affiliated with either party for candidates to secure the election on their own, as I pointed out in Rounds 3 and 4. The Pro also adds a new argument claiming that candidates would begin pandering to certain groups and this would divide the populace up. The fact of the matter is that this is happening in the status quo. Pandering has been a key feature of elections for a long time, and in this last election we saw candidates pander to the Latino community, Evangelicals, millennials, the African American community, etc. (1) Contention 3 The Pro claims that his contention that “Pure democracy is not good” has not been conceded, and while he did not concede that direct direct democracy is a bad thing, I never in this debate contended that “pure democracy” was a good thing, and that the US is a democratic republic and therefore democratic principles apply. By conceding these points, the Pro effectively made this argument irrelevant. Contention 4 The Pro states that there would be no reason for local election authorities to exist under a popular vote system, however, this claim is simply unfounded, as local election authorities exist not only for presidential elections but for state and local elections as well. Eliminating the electoral college would not end the need for local election authorities to exist as local and state elections will still be happening on the same day as the presidential election. It would, therefore, make the most sense for the elections to be governed at the local level. Additionally, given that laws for ballot access, voter registration, ballot printing, etc. vary from state to state, it would not make any sense for the federal government to be in charge of enforcing state election laws, in addition to the fact this would be blatantly unconstitutional. None of the Pro’s claims on this contention have any bearing. Defense C1 Swing States The Pro alleges that Donald Trump’s appearance in California during the primary election is relevant because “California is a blue state”. This completely ignores the fact that the primary election is competitive in far more states than the general election, and Trump was there to promote himself prior to the Republican Primary in California. As Trump was not campaigning for the General election in that example given by the Pro, the example is irrelevant. C2: Inequality of Influence The Pro has failed to respond to this argument and thus it goes conceded. C3 Limits Choice The Pro seems not to understand that the distribution of electors is decided by the States, of which there are 50. I do not have the time or the characters to go over all 50 states’ laws concerning the distribution of electors, however, if the pro demands a source saying this is how it is set up, I will refer him to sources number 2 and 3. Where it is decided in the law varies from state to state however as both of this articles show, ""winner take all"" is the system by which electors are elected and this must, as with all legal matters, be determined by the laws of these states. C3 Third Parties The Pro has failed to respond to this argument and thus it goes conceded. Conclusion In this debate, I have shown that the electoral college violates basic democratic principles, limits choices, and disadvantages third parties. The Pro has made several claims to support his contention, yet all of them have failed to adequately support his claims. He has further failed to address my contentions, leaving several points unanswered and thus conceded. Thank you and Vote Con. Sources 1) http://www.attn.com... 2) https://www.archives.gov... 3) http://www.fairvote.org..."	CON	152
152	Se6573295-A5c4b8d0b	The electoral college ought to be abolished.	The electoral colleges encourage candidates to focus their attention on different parts of the United States instead of just targeting voters in only a specific part of the country. California, Texas, New York, Ohio and Florida, states with some of the highest electoral college votes, are found in different locations in the U.S. These states have a large distance between them so that candidates do not focus their attention only to the Midwest, the south and other partial areas of the U.S. but to all areas of the U.S. Some may argue that if candidates do not hold their campaigns in states with small electoral college votes voters within these sates are not aware of each candidates plans. This is untrue. For example, the grey party candidate gives a speech in Texas. It is highly likely that Texas's neighbouring states and other southern states will know about what was discussed from: the influence of the people of Texas, the news, social media and many other forms of communication used by the public to express its political views. If the electoral colleges are abolished then candidates will be biased to states with a high population and forget about the rest of the United States. Another reason people disagree with the electoral colleges is the misconception that it disregards the popular votes. With over 40 elections held in the U.S. there were only 3 instances where the candidate with the most popular votes lost the elections. Those who will vote in the electoral colleges is determined by the voters. Each candidate has a set number of electors in their states. These electors will vote on their behalf if the people vote for them by voting for the candidate. The candidate must have over 50% of a state's popular vote for his party's electors in that state to be allowed to cast electoral votes. Your votes do matter! The reason the founders placed electoral college in the constitution instead of having a completely democratic country is because if you study most of history, a purely democratic society isn't always fair. Therefore, there is some modifications which are necessary to a successful country and for the United States the electoral colleges is one of them. The founders put the electoral colleges in place to ensure that the country is given all that is necessary to thrive.	CON	153
153	S54bdc9d5-A4b913daf	College athletes should not be paid.	"My opponent claims that sports are not as important as academics, I respond to this by stating that sports programs at college are a way for the college to advertise for it's education. You may notice when watching a basketball game or a football game there will be many ads for the school itself. The reason schools wish to improve there athletics department is for greater revenue. Schools use this as a way to get the word out for there school. In this way the athletes should get the credit for the amount of money the school earns because of this. In this way the ""students that are making a difference"" are benefiting from this extra pay. My opponent responds to my point about full time jobs by stating that being a student is also a full time job with few breaks. I state that this proves my point! Athletes are students too! Athletes have to participate in student activities, and using my opponents logic it is clear athletes have the tougher time, when you have to deal with both the difficult time consumer that is academics AS WELL AS ATHLETICS it becomes nearly impossible to get a job during this time. Thus the added pay would be beneficial to the athletes and should be added. My opponent claims that if any people bring money into the school they should be paid as well, however athletes make up the vast majority of the money made from students. As my statistics showed athletics have made 12 billion dollars. Thus a newspaper job is not as beneficial to the school as athletics. In my opponents point about swimmers he states that they should deserve to be paid as much as the regular athlete. However this cannot be true, as not all sports can be equal. Remember that in the professional leagues the better players are paid more, this is simply part of life. I understand that the swimmers need pay, and I agree they do, but it doesn't matter because it doesn't draw enough attention to the school and thus they are not aiding the school as much as a football player. They do deserve money in replacement for a job, but not as much as the major athletes. My opponent states the following: ""But like I said earlier, if an athlete is making money for the school, wouldn't they also be entitled to some of the money? Regardless of whether a high school athlete has a job or not, or would want one, if they make money for the school, it is the same situation as college."" However he fails to remember my other argument, that they cannot maintain jobs. High school athletes can't maintain jobs either way so it doesn't put them at a disadvantage. My opponent claims that 90% of athletic departments lose money, however they lose money strictly within the athletic program, these statistics fail to take into account the advertising the athletic departments bring in. If athletic departments where losing schools money the school could shut it down at any moment, however they don't because they know that it helps them. My opponent responds to my point about ""I also don't see how it would be illegal to not pay student athletes. For one, it is legal because it is currently being done."" However if a serial killer where to kill someone and not be caught would that change the fact that it is not illegal? Absolutely not! Just because something is happening that is illegal doesn't mean that it should continue happening! It means that it should be abolished, it is illegal and it is wrong. Because of all of the reasons that I have presented I strongly urge a vote for Con."	CON	154
154	Sea22c804-A9cc5c930	The Electoral College Needs to be Replaced	"I'd first like to start out by clarifying that the point was the both Democrats and Republicans CAN Agree, my apologies. But there is support for a change in our system. Take Donald Trump, in 2012 he tweeted: ""the Electoral College is a disaster for democracy."" and Democratic Representative Gene Greene said: ""every citizen""s vote should count in America, not just the vote of partisan insiders in the electoral college."" [1] Hillary Clinton also said back after the 200 election that the system needed a change: ""I believe strongly that in a democracy, we should respect the will of the people, and to me that means it""s time to do away with the Electoral College and move to the popular election of our president."" [2] On your point of the age of the system, the only reason that it has stayed that way is exactly the change you stated, a constitutional amendment. The difficulty of doing so is extremely difficult, especially in this day and age. It's not usually a major political issue either, because of the abnormal result of a popular vote loser being the winner does not happen often. Does that mean the system doesn't need to be changed? Of course not! You can look to see we can get equal representation through a proportional or popular system. Next, you talk about the process, just feeding into my points. Electors being nominated by their party, at a state level, where it can be easily controlled by party leaders. And by doing a winner take all by state, it only prioritizes the bigger states because they have more votes and smaller states are left behind, not every vote would count, just the ones in Florida and Ohio. (Seriously, look at 2000, Florida literally decided an election.) The winner takes all system has also hurt the Democratic Party, empirically, take Rutherford Hayes' election, George Bush's, Donald Trump's, all losing the popular vote to a Democratic candidate but winning anyway. The state by state winner take all have hurt the Democrats, it doesn't help them. On your opinion of the people point, you can refer to my point above. Changing the Electoral College is not as popular as other issues because it only affects the present once every 4 years, and not even that, because of the popular vote and E.C. winner being the same. Also, your chart shows consistent support for changing the system when it mattered. You could see it was on a downward trend going into 2002, which meant it was a big issue in 2001, right after Bush-Gore. (If you could provide a date for when it was from in 2016 that would be great too!) ""the age of the system suggests that we, the people of the nation, have not had sufficient reason to replace the system yet,"" Replace Electoral College with slavery. The age and tradition of slavery suggest that we don't have a sufficient reason to change it. That doesn't make sense. Even if the Electoral College doesn't need a change, age would not verify that. Many terrible prejudices were based on being passed down from generation to generation. If the people think it was sufficient, why would 50% disagree with its process 3 years after a non-competitive election (according to your chart)? Next, the point that the Electoral College also hurts your main point of its age. It's lost its purpose of protecting small states and stopping a poor decision by the general public (again, 60% of states require electors to go with its state pick). It's an outdated tradition that is no longer needed. Also, the US is a representative democracy, and the Electoral College has gone against the will of the people, and even within states, a proportional system would solve for these issues as I mentioned earlier in Round 2. Also, I'd like to mention again that Democrats and Republicans can agree that the system needs to be changed. The Red Wall is preventing Democrats from channeling their base and would have had 2 more presidents in the White House with a proportional system, and the Republicans can still hold onto their waning influence in the federal government. Donald's Trump election was a big win for Republican, but the increase of Hispanic voters and thus the Democratic Base means its unlikely to happen again. To allow equal representation for everyone, including those hidden behind huge opposing party majorities, and to have the US representative democracy be reflected in our Presidential Elections, its time for a change. [1]: https://blog.politics.ox.ac.uk... [2]: https://www.nytimes.com..."	PRO	155
155	Sb6d2bbc8-Afb4cd8c	The Electoral College Should Be Abolished	"I will respond to my opponent's arguments first, then defend my own, then go into closing statements. My opponent argues that voters were not educated when the electoral college was created. One thing he neglects is that that there were very few property owners back in the day, and most of them were rich. Out of a population of 3 million people (2.4 million free men and 600,000 slaves), only 38,818 people voted, or about 1.8% of the population.[1] By definition, the rich had access to land - a prerequisite to vote - in a addition to superior education. My opponent is now saying that issue is not important, but it actually is quite so - it is the first reason he gave, and the reasoning behind it is inaccurate. My opponent said that: ""Back when the Electoral College was created, it was difficult for the average person to learn about politics. Candidates could not possibly travel around the country speaking to everyone and there were very few other ways to learn about a candidate. Because of this, most people were uneducated about politics and could not be relied upon to give an educated vote. The Electoral College was created so that the people voting for president would be educated."" In other words, he argues it is outdated because people were uneducated and could not give an educated vote for President. I have proven that: A) Voters were not uneducated and B) Popular vote was not nationally accepted until the 12th Presidential election, the 1832 election. This demolishes his argument, which, as I explained above, was the first he gave. Before moving on, I would like to issue a minor correction - Washington won 38,818 votes in 1788, not 11,000. As to the second, my opponent argues that votes not counting only applies to the Presidential election. I am not sure how this makes sense - he argues that it is unfair that Florida's votes were not allocated proportionally. I noted that Congressional elections are not done proportionally, and he says that is not the same. He argues that: ""In the congress elections that Con references, congressmen win their seats by the number of popular votes they win, so even if your candidate doesn""t win, your vote still counted. In the presidential election, on the other hand, the president wins by getting enough electoral votes. This means that if your state votes for a different candidate than you do, then your vote does not effect who wins."" This does not make sense. If your candidate loses, your vote de facto did not affect who wins. This is not specific to the Presidential elections, but to all elections that do not allocate seats proportionately to votes. My opponent says I have no example of where the EC was better than the popular vote; the 1876 election is a solid example of how the Electoral College can choose the right candidate. In 1876, the Democratic plan to win the election, called the 'Mississippi Plan', basically boiled down to suppressing black voters and white Republicans from voting in the South. Paramilitary units like the Red Shirts and White League intimidated voters, threatened violence, and disrupted Republican meetings. The strategy worked and the Democrats won the South and the popular vote comfortably, but they lost the election due to the fraud allegations.[2] As to the third point, my opponent argues that EC is disproportionate to the popular vote and must be abolished. Well, the fact of the matter is most elections in the US are not proportionate to popular vote - take, for example, the 2012 House elections, where Republicans only got 47.7% of the popular vote as compared to 49.0% for the Democrats,[3] but won 53.7% of the seats as opposed to only 46.3% for the Democrats.[4] Why should the House not follow the will of the people? As to my first argument, my opponent uses a straw man - he says that I said the EC was the founder's vision for this country, and that because the Constitution allowed slavery and kept women from voting we should ignore them. That was not my argument at all - my argument was and is that the United States is fundamentally a nation of states, not a nation divided into provinces, and that the EC uniquely represents this fact by allowing the states to decide how to allocate their electors. I mention what the founders envision, but only in the context of why the EC exists. I assume my opponent cedes both of those points since he never mentions them. Second, my opponent says my argument about the 2000 election favors his case because the 2000 election violated the will of the people. As I mentioned above, many other elections violate the will of the people, but my argument rests solely on the fact that the 2000 election punished Gore for lacking support in a gigantic portion of the country, punished Bush for not appealing to urban areas, and gave a great deal of power to the states on who would become President. The EC system rewarded Bush for focusing heavily on the state of New Hampshire, a moderate state, rather than focusing entirely on cultivating his conservative base (as would inevitably be the case under popular vote). It also forced both candidates towards the center, which is a positive thing. My opponent also asserts that the BOP is on me; it is not. In the rules, my opponent (Pro) clearly accepts the burden of proof, because he is the one advocating a policy change. Third, my opponent argues my point on third parties is contradictory. I understand it may be confusing, but what the EC does is it allows third parties to be relevant. In fact, a third party could technically have a shot to win if they could force the election to the House (which would happen if no candidate gets 271 electoral votes). On the other hand, the major parties can avert third party runs by adopting the platforms of successful third parties. After choosing the center-left Gore, for instance, the Democrats looked at the large number of Nader voters (mostly liberals, like Nader himself is) and nominated Kerry, a liberal. Kerry lost, but the third party forced its issue - liberalism - into the picture. Fourth, my opponent acknowledges the death of a candidate is a major issue, but says I give no reason why it is better than popular vote. This is not correct - I note that, under the EC, the electors could choose to elect the VP candidate instead of the President, which would prevent having to hold another election. This is a major advantage over the popular vote, which adopts no such provisions. Finally, my opponent argues it would be easy to switch to the popular vote. This is not the case. You need to get two-thirds of Congress and three-fourths of states to agree. That is not easy at all. The amendment process is sufficiently complicated that only 17 amendments that are not the Bill of Rights have been passed - an estimated 0.08 amendments per year. I assume my opponent cedes that the popular vote could be added without abolishing the EC, because he never commented on it. To sum up my argument - as a nation of states, the electoral college uniquely represents states' rights. It forces candidates to campaign across the country, forces them to moderate, allows a greater impact for third parties, allows a solid method for resolving the death of candidates, and can even be changed to reflect the popular vote entirely. The Electoral College is a solid method to decide the President, and does not need to be abolished. References: 1. http://en.wikipedia.org... 2. http://en.wikipedia.org... 3. http://en.wikipedia.org... 4. http://en.wikipedia.org... 5. http://en.wikipedia.org..."	CON	156
156	Sd0766dd3-A4a816b78	Electoral college	Sides If the voter of this debate were to choose whether the US president were determined by electors apportioned to states according to the US constitution, article 1 section 2 (electoral college) or by eligible citizen voters (national popular vote): Pro wins by persuading the voter to choose the electoral college. Con wins by persuading the voter to choose the national popular vote. This debate is not about whether to choose the plurality method, single transferrable vote, or a different voting method given a set of ballots. It is about whose ballots should be counted. Format R1 Con defines the sides and format. Pro accepts. R2 Con makes new arguments. Pro makes new arguments and/or responses. R3 Con makes new arguments and/or responses. Pro makes new arguments and/or responses. R4 Con responds to previous posts. Pro responds to previous posts. R5 Con waives this round except to address misconduct in Pro's R4 post, e.g. new arguments in the rebuttal. Pro waives this round except to defend against Con's R5 post.	CON	157
157	S1bdb82e-Addc46a79	A Debate On The Electoral College	"I would like to thank my opponent for this debate, and (aside from mentioning private messages) for remaining courteous throughout. Finally, in the final round of debate Con offers a reform plan for the Electoral College, albeit a very brief one. I will address this below, then rebut his attacks on the EC. Con wishes to eliminate the 'winner takes all' aspect for each state. According to him, this would have no effect on the smaller states. Nothing can be further from the truth. I will outline the negative consequences of Con's reforms below: 1. This would take yet another right away from the states. 2. Rural Areas would receive even less attention than they do under the current system. a) Candidates would focus their attention, both in legislation and in campaigning, on larger populations. This seems obvious enough. Therefore, cities would have more power under Con's proposed system at the expense of farming regions, or other rural regions. 3. Rural States would receive even less attention than they do under the current system. a) A great number of states do not have large metropolitan centers. Politicians would have little need to venture into these states. As a result, the interests of these states would be largely ignored by national candidates. Additionally, we would likely see presidents only from large metropolitan centers, or (less often) from the state of the metropolitan center. New York, California, and Texas would dominate the Federal government. Because of these negative consequences, it is my contention that each state knows what is in its best interest (and the interest of its citizenry) better than does the Federal government. Therefore, the Electoral College should remain unchanged since it allows each state to make its own decision on this question. Con also proposes that all electors be required to vote as their constituency dictates. This is a question best left to the individual parties. If a party thinks that its elected officials (Senators, Governors, &ct.) should have a voice in the direction of their party, I see no reason why they should not be allowed to operate as they see fit. He says that electors should ""be pledged to vote for the winner of the popular vote in their state."" However, this is in direct contradiction to his first proposal that each state divide its vote. Con also proposes removing the maximum limit on House seats for a state. This is irrelevant to this debate on the Electoral College so I will not address this issue. --------- I will now defend my own claims in the order in which he attacked them: 1. Con claims that neither candidate campaigned in Wyoming or the nation's capitol. Where he gets this information we do not know because he does not provide us with a source. The truth of the matter is that both candidates campaigned in Wyoming and in D.C. They may not have made an appearance, but they did campaign. 2. Con claims he did not support a weighted popular vote, but he clearly states >>""This means that if you change it to a system such as weighted popular vote, smaller states still recieve benefits.""<< He has changed his position so many times in this debate it is difficult to understand where he really stands. 3. Yes, a losing candidate may receive votes, but at what cost? The influence of the smaller states? The influence of all rural regions? The reader should ask himself if this is worth the reforms proposed by my opponent. 4. We agree that the census should be conducted more often. We also agree that this is not a reform of the EC. 5. Con offers ""what might happen in the future"" as evidence that an election going to the House of Representatives would be more subject to corruption and bribery. However, ""what might happen"" is not sufficient evidence to support his claim. I will also note that in the 1824 election, ALL candidates (including Jackson) had a minority of the popular vote. That is why the election went to the House. 6. It would be better to interpret this fact as saying that there should be a base level of power and influence for each state in the Federal Union. I have addressed this point on a number of occaisions throughout this debate, and my opponent has chosen not to respond. Therefore my point stands that each state needs to have a base level in order to enjoy the benefits of Union. CONCLUSION Con waited until the final round to make any sort of proposal. When he finally did, I showed why the current system is better than the reforms that he proposes. Con did not address the core of my argument, that each state needs an incentive to remain a member of the Federal Union. To consider when voting: Courtesy: We have both remained courteous throughout the debate. Con, however, attempted to use private messages to further his debate. Sp/grammar: Con's writing is generally sufficient, but in a few places his wording is such that his point is impossible to ascertain. Convincing arguments: Con did not respond to the core of my argument. I have shown his proposal to be quite flawed. Sources: Con used only one source, and misquoted it."	PRO	158
158	Sc9466f76-Ac9adfa8e	Single Sex Education is Better than Co-Education	"Thanks to my opponent for describing the points in such a lucid way. Here are the expansions of my points: (1)Students at co-education schools learn to interact better with the people of opposite gender: Students at co-ed schools meet a variety of people of opposite gender. It is definitely true that children meet many people of opposite gender outside school also. But to understand a gender better one must interact with a variety of people of that gender. Not all students are involved in extracurricular activities. Understanding siblings often backfires in understanding other people of that gender because young children think that all the people of that gender must be like their siblings. Here are some statements made by students studying in single-sex schools about their understanding of the opposite gender: ""Boys were exotic creatures for us. We only met them inside the pages of books. In college, where they appeared in human form, we had no idea what to say to them."" [1] (2)Co-education provides a platform for students of one gender to compete with those of the other gender: Competition is very essential in honing the skills of a child. Children must compete with the students of the opposite gender to realize where they stand. In some subjects, boys perform better than girls whereas in some other,it's the other way round. If children do not realize this at school level, they will face trouble and lag behind in competitive examinations. (3)Co-education helps in exchange of views and opinions between the students of opposite genders: It is evident that boys and girls see things with different perspectives. The views of boys about literature and poems can not be the same as girls' and girls' views about subjects like mathematics or physics can not be like boys'. Therefore, presence of both boys and girls in class will make the class more interactive and help in exchange of views among the students of opposite gender. (4)The level of understanding and learning by students depends upon efficiency of teacher and not on specialized methods: In some cases it is observed that students at single sex schools perform better than those at co-ed schools. But many other researches have also shown that students at co-ed schools perform better. ""Being with more girls is good for everybody,"" said Prof. Analia Schlosser, an economist from the Eitan Berglas School of Economics at Tel Aviv University. ""We find that both boys and girls do better when there are more girls in the class,"" she added. The study found that boys with more female peers in their classes showed higher enrollment rates in both advanced math and science classes, but overall benefits were found in all grades for both sexes. [2] Therefore, no sole conclusion can be deduced from the researches conducted by various organizations. I would like to add that the academic performance of the students depends upon the way teachers teach in the class and the amount of effort they put to make the class interactive and interesting. (5)Education doesn't mean only academic performance. Involvement of both boys and girls is necessary in many other activities of school life: I believe all will agree that education does not mean only academics. A student, in his/her school life participates in many other extracurricular activities which require participation of students of both the genders. Imagine a school football team without cheerleaders and a prom night with only boys or girls. These things may not seem necessary but are definitely a very important part of a student's school life. Single sex education may improve discipline or improve academic performance, but it makes a student's school life dull as they lack the companionship of the people of the other gender. Sources: [1] http://www.dnaindia.com... [2]http://www.medindia.net... Refutation: (1) Students at single-sex schools perform better than those at co-ed schools: As i have already stated, few researches can not deduce a sole conclusion about the performance of students in single sex or co-ed schools. Many other researches have also shown that students perform and behave better due to the presence of students of other gender in a class. (2) Males and females have different learning styles which must be treated differently: I believe there is no harm in allowing students to choose subjects which they find interesting. We can not force boys to love painting or girls to love computers. It is a thing which they have to decide on their own. In fact, presence of students of both the genders in a class allows them to share their interests, opinions and views about a thing which is not possible in single-sex schools. (3)Single-sex education promotes gender equality: I don't think gender inequality in the professions you mentioned is due to girls not being interested in them. There are many girls who find such professions interesting and choose professions also. But, it is due to the chauvinism of men and our patriarchal society that the women are unable to prove their worth in such professions. In fact, i believe allowing girls to compete with boys and score better than them will make them more confident and provide them motivation to choose professions which are dominated by men. (4) Students have a life outside of class: I agree with your point that some students at single-sex schools have life outside the classroom and are good at interacting with people of the other gender. But, it is not the case with everyone. Many girls and boys at single-sex schools face problems in interacting with people of the other gender confidently. Moreover, siblings do not help in making someone good at interacting with the people of opposite sex as they can not make students understand the whole gender completely. To understand the other gender completely one needs to interact with many persons and experience companionship of various people having different personality traits."	CON	159
159	S5dd7d039-Ae451de04	We should abolish the electoral college	I think we should no longer use the outdated electoral college systems, which has frequently landed us with a president that the majority of the country does not support. There are many things wrong with the electoral college system including faithless electors, its outdatedness, the inequality of citizens votes, and unwanted presidents. For these reasons, which I shall later explain in a greater depth, I suggest that Congress abolish this system and use the popular vote, like the majority of the world.	PRO	160
160	S816da028-A439466cf	Resolved: Direct popular vote should replace Electoral College	"I will first refute her case. C+1: The electoral college is flawed --> The system we have now does not follow the principles of a democracy May I first point out we are a constitutional republic, not a democracy. [1] Now my opponent states that in our system we have an equal say in who is repressing us. This is true under the EC (electoral college) What happens is at the republican convention (state wide) people vote on who they want to be the electors. Once chosen the person pledges to the candidate. [2] Now, this means when we vote for president we are not voting for the candidate, rather his elector. Then my opponent says it is possible that 49% may trump the 51%. She claims this is unjust. This is false, as it is just for the minority to win every once and a while. But what she leaves out is the largest states still have larger influence on elections. Ohio in 2004, Florida in 2000, this year it will likely be PA. The EC is not direct majority rule, but studies show democrats and republicans usually get the same percentage of votes in big states as they do overall, john kerry got 48% in 2004, and he got 48% in ohio. As larger states are worth more with or without the EC the overall vote is fair as it either gives you the big states or you don't. [3] Basically saying your overall win/loss with or without the EC is going to be similar. So therefore it generally forces a majority. If you look at all the elections put together the majority of the winners had the majority of the EC and the popular vote. [4] This disproves your argument as the EC usually ends in a majority win. ---> Most people do not support the system This argument is known as the bandwagon fallacy.The bandwagon fallacy mean appeal to the majority, more people like this therefore we should do it. [5] Note, POPULAR SUPPORT IS NEVER A GOOD REASON TO DO ANYTHING. This fallacy occurs when one argues to appeal to the majority. [6] Having this argument fits into this fallacy, and popular support is no reason to do X or Y. This argument is henceforth invalid. ---> People may not vote due to the EC My opponent claims people may not vote because their vote might become worthless. May I point out that is false, as the vote is still counted in the overall vote when you are watching fox news in November and see obama gets 51% of the vote against romney. The vote is indeed counted in the popular vote, and voting is extremely important regardless. My opponents whole argument is in theory people may not vote under this system. If you look at the facts, the EC actually increases the voting power. As each vote is in each district and electors are proportioned accordingly, it makes each vote worth more on the elector. In a NV (national vote) System your vote is worthless as we have 200 million people voting. The EC makes votes worth more. [5] Also my opponent brings up the point about winner takes all. Although this is partially true, many states have a proportional voting system. This means if you win district C you get 1 elector, but he wins district A so he gets on elector. [7] C+2: The system fails to make the majority win This argument as I have stated is false. The majority of the time the majority wins. the election in 2000 was a special case. Only in 3/54 elections has the electoral vote and the popular vote been different. [8] This disprove your case as the EC almost always shows a majority. And as I describe later is good for the election. C+3: Direct popular vote maximizes liberties of all Americans This is refuted by my st contention when I make it. I argue the EC helps minorities, a national vote would erode power for the smaller states. I will refute the 14th and 15th amendment now though. This is assuming the EC takes away peoples rights. Peoples rights are not taken away as in the EC each vote still counts, any voe could sway all of the electors. under the NV it would certainly break the 14th amendment as minority's and small states would not matter in the main elections. --My Case-- C1: The EC increases minority status In small states under a NV system their votes will literally be USELESS. The NV system would mean the larger states have all the power, as the candidate would have to go to California, Texas, Florida, and the north east and bang! you won the election. This means the smaller states are neglected and would hold little power in the actual election. The electoral college actually gives smaller states influence on the elections. It actually means their vote is worth slightly more then someones vote in texas, as the EC makes it so a vote here in NM is worth more, but it gives our state potential to sway an election. Texas still is worth more EC wise, but the EC enhances minority status. [9] ""the Electoral College actually enhances the status of minority groups. This is so because the votes of even small minorities in a State may make the difference between winning all of that State's electoral votes or none of that State's electoral votes."" [10] In a NV system the minority vote wouldn't matter as they are the minority. In the EC it matters as their vote may sway it from all of the electors or none of them. As stated it also helps the states with smaller population. [11] A NV system would not help EVERYONE as it would hurt small states and minorities. C2: Adds to the cohesiveness of the country The EC forces the winner to win the majority of the land mass to win. As the EC adds to the small states power (example Wyoming) ""The primary advantage is that the Electoral College insures that a president must have broad support over many regions of the country as opposed to popularity in a relatively few heavily-populated states."" [12] As the small states with low populations are the majority of the country, and now the EC makes them worth something, it forces the candidates to win those states or lose. Under the NV system they only need to win large towns. ""If presidents appeared to be solely regional candidates, it would tend to undermine the cohesiveness of the country. Given the current Electoral College, no person could become president without both the support of a substantial portion of the population and broad support over different regions of the country."" [13] In order of population you see although the individual large states have more population, the majority of the country has low population. The whole Midwest and Alaska have the least population and the largest area. [14] The EC forces you to win these states in the mid west or else you will lose. As the EC forces you to do this it makes you win the majority of the votes (most of the time) as well as the larger land mass (usually). C3: The EC encourages a two party system A NV system would mean more people would run for president. The EC makes it so there is only 2 viable parties running (making it easier on us). I will be fast as I am low on room. [15] C4: Constitution We have an amendment making the EC exist. ""The Electoral College process is part of the original design of the U.S. Constitution. It would be necessary to pass a Constitutional amendment to change this system."" [16] Now, we know the small states would never pass the bill, and 3/4 of the states need to support a change in the system to change the EC to an NV. As there would be too many small states against this action, the EC change would be impossible. Any attempt would be futile. [17] Conclusion: The EC has many benefits that should not be discarded, it helps minorities and small states, forces a majority usually and one must win most of the countries land mass, not just small concentrations of the US like with the NV, and it would be impossible to change the system as the small states would block the change. For these reasons, I urge a CON vote Sources inside this link: http://www.debate.org..."	CON	161
161	S717923bb-Ada15bff2	A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.	"SocialPinko's ELO Tournament, Round 1 Group A: Lickdafoot vs. Chrysippus I affirm the resolution: ""A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush."" First round is for acceptance only. Details of the tournament can be found here: http://www.debate.org... I greet my worthy opponent, and thank her for this debate. This will be the first time I've debated Lickdafoot, so I am looking forward to matching wits with her. Best of luck. -C."	PRO	162
162	Sc1b11a97-A7b50a6	Free Education	"1)Economic No one is arguing the benefits of an educated populous. Con agrees that an educated populous has major societal impacts, one of which is that a"" free education"" will be taken for granted by many and therefor diminished in its value. 2)Civic In our democracy, arguably the most efficient and benevolent in human history, happiness as inferred by the promise of a ""free"" education is not guaranteed. Only the pursuit of happiness is guaranteed under our constitution, the cost of which is to be born by the individual and not the state. 3)Fairness While the pursuit of ""fairness"" is inherently noble in virtue it can be argued that nature in itself is not fair, but beautifully efficient. In terms of PROS proposal to define ""free"" as only paying 25% of the costs of education, why should those individuals who are not receiving a so-called ""free"" education be forced to subsidized the remaining 75% of the cost? Finally, in the European Union so-called ""free"" benefits are subsidized by what we would consider to be exorbitant taxes throughout the entire economic spectrum."	CON	163
163	S8192c755-A779f99a	Is debating worth debating about	This belongs on forums or opinions but i'll go with this anyway. I am assuming you are against debate since you asked what is the point. 1. If you don't see a point in debate then why are you debating and why are you on a debate site. Just for that reason alone I won. 2. But if you don't buy that I will express the point of debate. A. debate to come to agreements For example I might debate with someone about a solution for drugs and they might have there own solution and as we debate we see holes in our own arguments and make up for it and fill in solutions for those problems. B. Debate to see things from different perspectives Debate is about learning things from both points of view and embracing them. For example if I like lets say Chris brown as a singer and you like Stevie wonder and you think Chris brown sucks and I think Stevie sucks we debate/argue over it. As we debate I can start seeing why Stevie is actually a good singer and you Chris brown. Debate allows us to accept each other more and embrace ideas. C. Debate topics I think debate topics are worth debating about and allow us to get more familiar with events in the world as well as political things.	CON	164
164	S45570f76-A1dea3b66	In the United States, the Electoral College should be abolished.	"-Introduction In this round I am going to rebut my opponent's initial arguments in favor of abolishing the Electoral College, and also refute my opponent's rebuttals to my case. - Rebuttals To My Opponent's Arguments 1. My opponent argues that if a candidate wins a state by a little over 50%, this means the other votes don't don't matter and the people might have well has stayed home. This logic is akin to saying that if I fire 3 bullets and only 1 hits and kills the target that the other 2 bullets might as well have stayed in the chamber. This logic fails because the more bullets I fire means the better chance of killing the target. Therefore, because the additional shots fired increased the chances of killing the target, they mattered, even though those bullets weren't the ones that actually caused the target to die. Thus, Pro's logic here does not succeed. 2. Pro claims that the Electoral College gives too much voting power to people of smaller states, but neglects the fact that this is done to counter the unfairness regarding states that that have a higher population than others. Since the increased voting power is justified in the name of the fairness I have mentioned, it cannot be used as a good reason to abolish the Electoral College. Pro says it's theoretically possible to win 50.19% of the Electoral College and only 21.19% of the popular vote, but forgets yet again if the winner was decided by popular vote then the election would be decided by a handful of large states meaning presidents would have no reason to sufficiently address concerns of smaller states to win elections (such as the water crisis in Flint Michigan). Since a president ignoring the vast majority of states would clearly more of a problem than smaller states having slightly more voting power, my opponent's arguments in this regard fall flat. Also, Pro says the Electoral College shouldn't be called a democracy; this is false. The Electoral College only fails to embody pure democracy, but it is still democratic none the less, and my opponent has failed to show in anyway this is not to be desired. 3. The argument about the law regarding electors not being able to vote for candidates from their home state fails for 2 reasons: (i) The law exists for a good reason, to prevent biased voting (ii) This isn't even practiced, as my opponent admits Thus, Pro's reasoning here can be disregarded. 4. My opponent has argued that the First Past the Post system is less democratic (which he hasn't proved), but hasn't argued that this in any way shape or form out weighs the benefits of keeping such a system (such as simplicity). Therefore, this line of argument from my opponent has not supported the resolution. 5. Pro argued that the First Past the Post systems are against third party candidates. This is irrelevant, as no third party candidate has ever won an election and probably won't ever. So, there is really no practical downside here. It would be like saying a certain action hurts the chances of me teleporting. It doesn't matter, as I have never teleported before and probably won't ever anyway (me teleporting is much more unlikely than a win from a third-party, but the analogy is sound regardless). 6. America has democratic aspects but it was never founded on principles of pure democracy so it really is futile to argue about how much the country sways away from democracy. Yes, the Electoral College allows for candidates who lose the popular vote to still win the election, but this isn't a ""failure"" as my opponent alludes to because if the popular vote was the most important thing to worry about then the election would be decided by a handful of large states. Thus, my opponent once again fails at supporting the resolution. 7. The concept of swing-states does have its issues (as Pro rightfully points out), it also has benefits as well (such as the fact that voters in toss up states have more incentive to pay attention to an election and make an educated vote than voters in states that are not swing-states). Because my opponent has not shown why the downsides outweigh the benefits, he has not supported the resolution with his line of reasoning. 8. The people in territories cannot vote in the Presidential election my opponent is correct. However, for the most part residents of the US territories don't pay federal income tax either and therefore should not be eligible to chose how they are represented at a federal level. Also, people living in the territories of the US are not considered US citizens, but US nationals. - Refuting My Opponent's Rebuttals 1. Part 2 of the previous section in this round addresses this rebuttal. 2. My opponent claims that a Single Transferable Voting solves the problem of the delay caused by recounts, but it actually creates a more of a delay because of the complexity of the voting calculations involved. The ends of implementing this system do not justify the means. Thus, this rebuttal from Pro fails. 3. We only ""should"" amend this aspect of the constitution if the resources and time required are worth it, which they aren't because as I have argued the Electoral College is a better system. With prohibition it was different because because the ends justified the means; humans should be able to chose what substances they can put in their body. This false comparison from Pro is not a sufficient rebuttal. 4. My opponent has not rebutted the fact that abolishing the Electoral College is unsound philosophically, and I have not confused the Electoral College with a state-by-state popular vote. Pro merely restates his position that smaller states have an advantage over larger ones which is false. It puts them on the same level because larger states have a higher population which, if the winner was decided by popular vote, would mean larger states would decide elections and smaller states would get left in the dust. 5. Having an obvious victor does not equate to electoral abuse but electoral efficiency. My opponent begs the question throughout the debate by assuming that victory by popular vote is better in order to claim that anything that goes against it is a ""failure"". This is circular reasoning. 6. I never committed a straw-man fallacy, I just pointed out that if Pro is to be consistent with this logic then there are undesirable consequences. Also, what I mentioned with regards to what the forefathers wanted was with regards to central parts of the Constitution, so his remarks about how the forefathers intended terrible things like slavery are moot points. 7. Pro's rebuttal to this is sound, actually, I will concede this point. This, however, is not enough to tip the scales in his favor. 8. Pro engages in a straw-man. I ever said that the Electoral College rigs elections, just that the lack of the Electoral College provides more incentive to rig elections. Pro ignored my reasoning for this. - Conclusion Pro consistently argued that the Electoral College is less democratic than the alternatives. While this is correct it is irrelevant as the US was never meant to be a pure democracy (just meant to have democratic aspects), and it has not been argued sufficiently that a pure democracy is to even be desired; it is just erroneously assumed by Pro. While I commend Pro for having much knowledge on the subject his actual case is lackluster at best I'm afraid. My opponent's case was dismantled with relative ease, while only one of his rebuttals to my case was sound (which still leaves my other reasons for keeping the Electoral College unscathed). Therefore, it is without a doubt the case that the resolution has been negated."	CON	165
165	Sccfc1c03-A1b270de8	Localize Education- get rid of the Department of Education and Common Core	"Thanks, Pro- I think we have a pretty good sense for the through-line of Pro's argument, so let's use the two specific cases Pro offers to examine the merits of Pro's case. First up, Pro offered the analogy of snow removal to demonstrate that State Govt is inherently more effective than Federal: ""I live in New Hampshire. It snows it the winter. Someone has to plow the roads. The state plows plow the state roads. If DC had to come plow my street, the quality of plowing would be far worse."" This analogy serves well enough to demonstrate the typical scope and capability of the Federal Govt and Pro's ignorance of the same. 1. Of course, the Federal Govt. does plow snow all over the country, often in places far more remote and inaccessible than New Hampshire: Yellowstone National Park, for example. Within and around National Forests, hundreds of thousands rely on Federal plowing programs for access to homes, lumber, mining, cattle, skiing- a host of interests. Many of these roads are not paved and require special care to prevent rutting and erosion. So while Pro assumes that the Fed would necessarily do worse than New Hampshire does plowing snow, Con sees no reason to make such an assumption. 2. The National Weather Service (a division of the Dept. of Commerce) provides weather and climate data, forecasts and warnings for the State of New Hampshire. When it comes to deciding when and where to deploy snow plows, how much snow there will be and whether it's safe to drive, New Hampshire relies on the Federal Govt. Without the effective dissemination of reliable NWS forecasts, snow removal in New Hampshire would be far slower and less efficient. 3. Between 2001 and 2012, 64% of the New Hampshire State Transportation Budget was funded by Federal Sources. [1] Overall, over 30% ($1.7 Billion) of New Hamphire's 2017 budget comes from Federal revenue. [2] In a very real sense, DC does, in fact, plow your roads by guaranteeing that States allocate funding to transportation. 4. And when the snows get deep (which happens often enough in New Hampshire), the Governor can declare a major disaster, during which the Fed covers at least 75% of State & Local costs for emergency services,for restoring infrastructure, and yes, for snow removal. In recent years, FEMA paid New Hampshire $4.7 million for a snowstorm in Jan 2015, $6.1 million for one in Feb 2013, $6.4 million for flooding in June 2013, etc [3] The Fed doesn't tell New Hampshire where or when or how to plow Pro's street but it does pay for most of it. This makes sense because snow plowing is a significant necessity for public safety and commerce and States tend to underbudget for things like snow removal (as happened in New Hampshire in 2014 and again in 2015) [4] Contrary to Pro's assumptions, without Federal foresight and Federal financial backing, the quality of snow plowing in New Hampshire would be substantially worse. Now, we could save a lot of money by doing away with the Dept. of Commerce, the Dept of Transportation, the National Weather Service and FEMA, but shouldn't we first understand how those entities work together with State and local governments to provide essential services more effectively, as they do with snow plowing in New Hampshire, before we make those cuts? Similarly, Pro has suggested that we save money by eliminating the Dept. of Education without demonstrating an understanding about what that department does and does not do. Let's move on to the second specific case proferred by Pro: Pro has to take a third year of Algebra. I strongly suspect that this complaint is at the core of Pro's dissatisfaction with the US Education system and that any plan that might allow Pro to transfer out of math into his preferred elective course of study would receive Pro's full endorsement. Not that Pro can be faulted for this outlook; Algebra can be mind-numbingly dull. So, who requires Pro to take a third year of math and why? Since the 1990's, employers have expressed increasing dissatisfaction with the workplace readiness of new employees. This dissatisfaction extends to most skill sets, but let's focus on math- of particular importance to the rapidly expanding markets in science, engineering, and technology. These employers were increasingly hiring employees overseas who were not only cheaper, but demonstrated more advanced math skills than US candidates. Many studies investigated this problem, including studies like the Plymouth State University 2006 report ""Making the Transition from High School to College and the Workforce"" which found that math proficiency was a key predictor for college graduation, with the tipping point beyond Algebra II. That is, students with only Algebra I, Algebra II, and Geometry were far less likely to graduate than students who continued into Trigonometry, Calculus, or Statistics in their fourth year. New Hampshire community colleges were also finding that students who required even one remedial math course in college were half as likely to graduate as students who required no remedial math instruction. At the same time, New Hampshire High Schools were examining assessment test results that showed that while 68% of New Hamphire students proved proficient at math up to grade 8, the 11th grade results showed only 38% of students remained proficient. A State Task Force on Mathmatics Instruction was convened and in 2012 made a number of recommendations to the New Hampshire State Board of Education. The recommendations included adopting the National Governor's Association Common Core Initiative standards for Mathmatics because, A. Common Core recommended a full four years of math for high school students, B. Common Core standards were mostly in alignment with New Hampshire's existing curriculum, and C. Common Core Assesments would allow the state to evaluate student performance on nation-wide basis. [5] The State Board agreed to implement Common Core standards in Mathmatics for the purpose of assessment testing, but continued to leave it to local school districts how to prepare for those tests and whether or not 4 years of math would be required. Some NH school districts did add more math to their curriculum in response, but manyonly moved from 2 years of math to 3 years. In spite of Common Core recommendations, few NH high schools require 4 years of math. So- Pro blames the Department of Education for his third year of math but that Department not only has no authority in the matter, they are prohibited by law from even recommending how many years of math a New Hampshire High School should have. Pro might blame the State of New Hampshire for adopting the new standards if those new standards prompted his school district to increase its mathmatics curriculum, but we should stress that the State made no such requirement. [6] in the end, the decision was left to Pro's school board and if Pro would prefer to be less ready for college and the workplace than the State recommends, Pro's only means of redress is through that autonomous political entity. In Pro's specific case, Pro's New Hampshire school district retains power over its curriculum including how many years of math Pro must endure. The Fed has no authority. The State has made a recommendation but most school districts have not fully complied. Non-compliant schools have not been penalized, compliant schools have not been rewarded. So far, Con has demonstrated Pro's argument to be based on erroneous assumption and therefore meritless. Con looks forward to Pro's conclusion. [1] http://t4america.org... [2] https://www.nh.gov... [3] https://www.fema.gov... [4] http://www.wmur.com... [5] http://education.nh.gov... [6] http://education.nh.gov..."	CON	166
166	S574204c1-Af013cdd5	Personal Bankruptcy is worth doing	"Okay, I think you are misinformed. Chapter 13 is not only for businesses, rather, Chapter 11 is only for businesses. Chapter 7: ""A bankruptcy proceeding in which a company stops all operations and goes completely out of business. A trustee is appointed to liquidate (sell) the company's assets, and the money is used to pay off debt."" Chapter 13: ""U.S. bankruptcy proceeding in which the debtor undertakes a reorganization of his or her finances under the supervision and approval of the courts. As part of the reorganization, the debtor must submit and follow through with a plan to repay outstanding creditors within three to five years."" Chapter 11: ""a form of bankruptcy that involves a reorganization of a debtor's business affairs and assets. It is generally filed by corporations which require time to restructure their debts."" http://www.investopedia.com... http://www.investopedia.com... http://www.investopedia.com... http://credit.about.com... As for your bizarre notion: ""It's legal and it's free money the bank created just for you. It stimulates the economy and gets new money circulated into the system, and doesn't hurt the banks."" It is not ""free money"". You took money and exchanged it for goods and/or services. Do you honestly think that money just appears? It wasn""t ""created"" any more than the digital number on your bank machine shows how much money you have in your account. Money isn""t kept in bank vaults anymore, you""re right. It""s a digital notation, but when you click withdraw $60, you still get real money. I""d appreciate it if you didn""t insult my intelligence. ""With chapter 7 you can keep your home and your car."" No, under C. 7, your assets are liquidated to repay a debt. That is the definition. However, under C. 7, in personal bankruptcy, you are allowed to keep certain things called ""Exempt Property"". This law is more lenient in some states. There is always a chance you could lose both your car and your house, depending on their value""and your state. The bottom line is this: By declaring bankruptcy, you are damaging your chances at success. You are contributing to the debt; to the current state of American economics in a deeply negative way. Even if you emerge scott-free, which is very rare, you are screwing someone over to do it. There is no free lunch, as I like to say. Its capitalism, you work for what you have. You are not given it. Bankruptcy will ruin you and your reputation, I""ve seen it before. It""s not worth it."	CON	167
167	Sf6f74b-Ac7a246d7	The Electoral College is Misrepresentative	The electoral college in this country (America) is unfair. It is possible to receive the most number of votes but not win the election. Popular vote should be the deciding factor in determining who is elected President. Electoral College: System which each state is given a certain number of electors based on the population of said state.	PRO	168
168	S863dddcf-A6b2496b7	Formal education (K-12) ought to be compulsory in the United States	"Pro Argument 1A Con response: I basically concur with everything posted in this argument. However, when you say, ""education is not optional for a US citizen to be successful,"" what kind of education are you referring to? Basic K-12? College? It is perfectly possible to have a more than adequate career *without* a college degree. See: http://www.careerbuilder.com... Pro Argument 1B Con response: Pro asserts that if formal education isn't compulsory, it won't be provided and thus won't fulfill the social contract theory. That is not a valid argument because even if education isn't compulsory, it will still be provided. College education is not compulsory and it is still provided. Regardless of the increase of high school graduates heading to college, colleges have predated this occurrence. Pro goes on to say that truancy and other educational laws ensure that all citizens are *offered* facilities to provide such an education. Notice the word I put in asterisks, offered. Why does the truancy law have anything to do with the state *offering* educational facilities? Even if some students choose to be truant, that doesn't make education any less essential. According to my opponent's case, education is a need and it is the state's job to provide. It is still the state's job regardless of truant students. Pro keeps asserting that in order for people to educate themselves, compulsory education is needed. While it's clear that education is necessary for some sort of future (as I even established in my own case), compulsory education doesn't ensure a stable, well-paying future of anyone [1]. If people wish to be truant and not follow through with education, then they will do so. State and law pending, kids can drop out of high school. Compulsory education is not a guarantee of success. 1. Refer to my #5 source and read the first paragraph, first page. Pro Argument 1C Con response: I've already stated that compulsion can't force kids to go to school, similar to the way that the law won't stop a truly determined killer or rapist. It's really not that effective of a deterrent. Like I said, all children will have equal access to education regardless of its compulsory state and I don't see how pro can prove otherwise. Pro even stated in their case that the state had a right to provide education so the compulsory nature of it is irrelevant. Pro is fearful for children who may be hurt by non-compulsory schooling because of the area they live in but these kids that live in poverty already have a damaged education [2]. In our capitalist society, it is a given that some will make it, some won't - and this is hardly to blame on our educational institutions. See: http://health.usnews.com... Pro Argument 2A Con response: Education reform is (or at least, usually is) a good thing, I will not disagree with pro there. However, this part of their argument appears pointless. You can find many good ways to teach a lot of pointless concepts, but does that make these subjects of any further value? Cross-apply my C1 and it makes this argument completely invalid. Pro Argument 2B Con response: Pro is telling me that cognitive thinking skills and life skills *can* be learned at school? Everyone learns differently so I fail to see how you could justify this assertion. Also, just because they *can* doesn't mean they will. Pro says that, ""citizens must be self-sufficient, able to interact with a diverse society, and prepared to actively participate in their own governance."" Again, this has absolutely nothing to do with compulsory education. Kids would be able to do all of this just fine out of CE, given that they have adequate parenting. As for social skills, keep in mind that socialization is a part a of childhood parenting. Also, CE still fails to promise any of these things. It's completely possible and in fact likely that you can walk into a school and see a handful of kids who are somewhat to completely asocial. The three traits that pro listed for success as a citizen can be learned without the aid of CE. ===REFUTING PRO'S COUNTERARGUMENTS=== Con C1: Not warrantless assertions, unless of course you can tell me how they are warrantless. It is only warrantless if everything I said had no truth whatsoever. This is far from the case and if pro disagrees than they are being unreasonable. A warrantless assertion would be to say that kids feel important at school, because realistically there are bound to be some who do, some who don't. Also, ironic that pro says my arguments aren't linked to CE when I've already shown how the pro contentions aren't. In regards to the cross-application of your 2A, not all teachers have graduated in the past 5 years and not all of them use the constructive model. This is most observable in poor areas that struggle, refer to my earlier link posted in this round. Con C2: Your 2A evidence has nothing to do with imparting cognitive thinking; it's just a bunch of academic standards that the state of Oregon has. Every state has these and I fail to see what pro is proving with it. Homeschooling is completely possible but it still must comply with curriculum of the school [1], making my C2 proposal of teaching only the necessities worthless. Also, students in homeschooling seem to outperform their public counterparts [2], making formal CE even more questionable. If students can learn without CE, then there is no point of upholding CE. Pro asserts that school attendance laws are the only reason the state is obligated to give underserved children an education but stated in their own case that the state must supply what is necessary as part of social contract; pro defined education as necessary to which I concurred. Therefore, pro's assertion here is invalid. 1. http://www.homeedmag.com... 2. http://www.hslda.org... Pro, question: What do you mean by underserved? Con C3: High school makes having a job much harder by restricting the amount of hours you can work; factor this in with maintaining relationships, family life, and homework. Pro says that becoming part of the workforce without a diploma is nearly impossible - agreed. However, making education compulsory will not effect those who plan to work as an adult (mostly everyone) anyway because they already desire a diploma. People who don't want to contribute to society and don't feel they should have to provide for themselves won't. CE doesn't stand in the way of this at all and I fail to see how pro proves that it does. Conclusion: We are now left with an important question, ""What is the purpose of making education compulsory?"" Judges, you have your answer: there is no purpose. I strongly urge a con ballot, thank you."	CON	169
169	Sa05dcf19-Ad4a08500	The Electoral College Voting System In the US Should Be Replaced	"I argue that the Electoral College should be repealed and replaced with a popular voting system. A) Four times in history, the person that received more votes lost (John Quincy Adams in 1824, Samuel Tilden in 1876, Grover Cleveland in 1888, and Al Gore in 2000). With four losses in 55 elections, that is a failure rate of 7.2%. Would anybody tolerate a sport where by a quirk of the rules there was a 7% chance that the loser would win? What if nuclear reactors had a 7% chance of a meltdown every time they were used? Nobody would support nuclear energy. So I have ask why would anybody support such a broken system? [1] B) Just four states: Ohio, Florida, Virginia, and Pennsylvania received more than 50% of the total visits by a presidential candidate in the 2008 election. Only seventeen states were even visited by a presidential candidate during the race. This happens because presidential candidates know which states they are going to win, and which states they are going to lose. As a result, the only states that even really receive visits are ""swing states"" i.e. states that could swing either way in the election. This is a problem because the candidates will do whatever they can to win these states, and will therefore give them things that the rest of the country doesn't get. [2] [3] C) Due to the way that the Electoral College is set up, a candidate only needs to win 22% of the popular vote. If they won 51% of the popular vote going from smallest to largest, they'd get to 270 Electoral College Votes (The minimum to win) while only needing 22% of the population of those states. It becomes even worse when you realize that because 40% of Americans don't vote, therefore you can become president with a mere 13.2% of the popular vote. [2] D) ""The Electoral College system further distorts the one-person, one-vote principle of democracy because electoral votes are not distributed according to population... an individual citizen in Wyoming has more than triple the weight in electoral votes as an individual in California... It’s closer to quadruple than triple."" [3] How could anybody argue that this a good thing? I understand that it was invented to keep the big states from dominating the small states, but your vote shouldn't be worth 1/3 of someone else's vote just because they live in a small state. E) There is a possibility of a tie because 538 (the total number of votes) is an even number. If the Electoral College is tied, the House of Representatives breaks that tie. There are 435 representatives in total. Thankfully an odd number and a guaranteed tiebreaker. However, in reality, each representative doesn't get one vote, each state gets one vote. This is an awful system because not only are there 50 states and another opportunity to tie, but 50% of the population lives in just 10 states. Therefore the 24 states that contain a vast majority of the population are outnumbered by the 26 states with a vast minority of the population. As I pointed out in C, it would be possible to win with just the least populated states. If one candidate promised the small states everything they could ever want, he would get elected even if only a minority of people even wanted him in the first place. [4] While most of the things I pointed out in this round were either theoretical or relatively uncommon, it should be noted that these things shouldn't even be able to happen. In summary, we need a popular vote system in the United States because with the current Electoral College voting system, there is a possibility of minority rule in the country. Minority rule in a democracy is never a good thing. Every vote should count the same and highly populated states shouldn't be punished for having a lot of people. I look forward to Con's response. [1] http://www.factcheck.org... [2] [3] http://www.minnpost.com..."	PRO	170
170	S1db3eaf8-Ae7cf20fd	Free university education unjustly benefits one subset of society at the expense of everyone	The state funds essential services, but higher education is not such a service. The specific subset free university education tends to benefit not the disadvantaged, but rather the middle and upper classes who would have paid fees, but are now relieved of this burden. This pattern has been seen in Ireland where poorer communities still view higher education as something for the rich even though it is free. These groups continue to enter the workforce in similar numbers as they had before the ending of fees, and they still tend to prefer trade schools to universities if they do seek qualifications beyond the secondary level.[1] [1] Brady, Hugh. 2008. “We Must Invest Now in Our Universities or Pay Later”. University College Dublin News. Available: http://www.ucd.ie/news/2008/03MAR08/200308_students.html​        14 Government of Ireland. 1997. “Universities Act, 1997”. Available: http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/1997/en/act/pub/0024/index.html  	PRO	171
171	Sa80e9f52-A9506785a	Innovation and automation is worth the reduction of jobs	"I would like to point out that while it is true that advancement of technology has begun replacing jobs, it cannot be said that the number of jobs is decreasing. From The Straits Times 24 June 2017 A40: ""Philip Auerswald in his book 'The Coming Prosperity' mentioned that, whenever machine and tools substituted one type of human capability, new human experiences and capabilities actually emerged."" However, this claim is another debate on its own. I disagree that innovation and automation are worth the reduction of jobs. ""However, automation increases the standards of living and is overall beneficial for the majority."" I believe that the opposition would agree with me that at least 30% of the world's workers are doing menial and mundane jobs that can be replaced with technology (Assumption). Replacing these workers' jobs with automation would means that these people will be jobless. Furthermore, since most jobs will be automated, it increases the difficulty of finding a job. With the rising costs of living around the world, people need jobs to survive and to take care of their families. No doubt automation increases the standards of living, but overall beneficial for the majority is questionable."	CON	172
172	Se6a1eebb-A9edda833	Abolish the Electoral College	"How the Electoral College Works After the votes in each state are counted, the political party whose candidate received a majority in a particular state is allowed to choose a slate of electors who will cast the real votes for President. We vote for President in November, but the 538 electors cast an official ballot in December. The candidate who receives a majority of the electoral votes (currently 270) wins the election. Problems People's votes and electoral votes do not count the same. ""Each individual vote in Wyoming counts nearly four times as much in the Electoral College as each individual vote in Texas. This is because Wyoming has three (3) electoral votes for a population of 532,668 citizens (as of 2008 Census Bureau estimates) and Texas has thirty-two (32) electoral votes for a population of almost 25 million. By dividing the population by electoral votes, we can see that Wyoming has one elector for every 177,556 people and Texas has one elector for about every 715,499."" http://www.fairvote.org... By giving smaller states more electoral votes per person than larger states, disparity was created across the nation in regards to the significance of each citizens"" vote. With the Electoral College, the value of a vote depends on what state a person lives in. http://www.huffingtonpost.com... Under the Electoral College, your vote is only valuable if you align with the majority of people from your state. If you are a Republican in Massachusetts, your vote will likely not matter because the majority of people are Democrats and thus only the Democratic votes will count toward choosing the president. Only if you live in a swing state (less than 10 states) does your vote really have significance, because it helps establish the majority. There is no overwhelming support for ideology in a ""safe state"" so the electoral college only makes an individual's vote matter significantly in a swing state. https://en.wikipedia.org... According to a study done by Jesse Ruderman, ""A presidential candidate could be elected with as a little as 21.8% of the popular vote by getting just over 50% of the votes in DC and each of 39 small states. This is true even when everyone votes and there are only two candidates. In other words, a candidate could lose with 78.2% of the popular vote by getting just under 50% in small states and 100% in large states."" https://www.squarefree.com... When someone with barely above 1/5 of the popular vote can win an election, that is not good for democracy. That is not reflecting the voices of the people but rather playing politics. In 2000 Al Gore won the popular vote but lost the presidency to George W Bush. The course of American history could be significantly different if the more popular president won. Another thing to consider is unbound electors. There is no federal law that requires electors to vote as they have pledged. There are 21 states in the union that have no requirements of, or legal control over, their electors. So the state""s electors are free to vote however they please, including no vote at all, with no real legal penalty. Even in the states that do have control, often the punishment is very minor (some states issue only minimal fines as punishment). http://www.fairvote.org... The electoral college encourages the 2 party system, because people think they have to vote for the ""lesser evil"" in order for their vote to count. With the Electoral College, the voting power of the people has been diluted and unequally distributed, when each citizen's vote should hold equal weight and significance for the sake of democracy."	PRO	173
173	Se6a1eebb-A11a998ab	Abolish the Electoral College	"Hello Pro. Thank you for defining the electoral college to our voters (I get the feeling that most people are pretty ignorant of the way our government works). I will rebut each of your claims in order, as well as adding my own argument. The fact that Wyoming has fewer people per electoral vote is true, but before condemning it, lets examine why. Each state gets two senators, regardless of population, and then a house of representatives member for approximately every 710,000 people. Each senator and house of reps member counts as an electoral vote. (The exception to these rules is DC. DC has no senators or representatives, but gets 3 electoral votes.) So, two of Wyoming's three votes are from the senators. This is true for all states. Senators have nothing to do with population, so two of those electoral votes are justified. Now lets look at the last vote. This vote is the population vote. True, Wyoming's population is only about 584,000 (Not enough for an electoral vote), but they still need a representative. They pay taxes, right? No taxation without representation. And the senators do not count as representation. So we give Wyoming a representative, which makes things unbalanced. But the alternative is to essentially throw out the votes of hundreds of thousands of people. For more about how this rule came about, go here- http://study.com... So, to your claim, ""With the Electoral College, the value of a vote depends on what state a person lives in."", you're essentially saying we should ignore a hefty chunk of the nations population. I know you didn't mean this, but that's the only other alternative. You also say ""Under the Electoral College, your vote is only valuable if you align with the majority of people from your state."" This is true, but that is still a majority. Majority rules. If you have a problem with the majority, you can move to a place where you are part of the majority. Also, you are correct in saying that someone could win 78.2% of the popular vote and lose the electoral vote... but that's like saying ""Maybe a rabid koala will fall out of a flying cherry picker and land on my head, mauling me and giving me AIDS."" Is this technically possible? Yes. Will it happen? No. Also, Gore's ""win"" of the popular vote is generally considered to be a tie. The numbers were extremely close, and if you take into account those who didn't vote, either candidate could have won. And this is also a good time for me to point out that if Gore had won, he would have had half the population against him. Yes, electors are generally not legally bound to vote one way or another- but they never vote against the population, because they would get thrown out of office if they did. There are more than just legal consequences. So, I'm sure you're noticing, despite my defense, there are still some flaws in the electoral college system. This is true, and the electoral college is not a very good system. But it's the best one. The only alternative is a popular vote system, and this is worse. Let me give you an analogy. You've got twelve people running for president (Without the electoral college, this would be the case!) Here is the vote division- Person A- 8% of the vote Person B-10% of the vote Person C-9% of the vote Person D- 8%of the vote Person E-9% of the vote Person F- 9% of the vote Person G- 8%of the vote Person H- 7%of the vote Person I- 5% of the vote Person J- 9% of the vote Person K- 8% of the vote Person L- 9% of the vote So who wins? Person B? They got the bigger percentage of the vote- but they also had 90% of the population against them. With the electoral college, this scenario would never happen."	CON	174
174	Sf5635870-A5fb17c3c	A National Curriculum: Lower Education for a Lowerclass??? I think not...	"People in lower classes dont deserve a lower education!!! Thats not fair to them. Dooming them to the same fate as their parents because the state wont offer them a better education only contributes to the poverty problem. Not to mention it passes judgement on people based their social class. This is america!! Its not a aristocratic caste system where only the elite can get a higher education. Further more, it is not small at all! Ive seen it. The difference is huge! In order to ""raise their standards"" for graduation, the state of Alabama began using series of graduation exams. Every student must pass all of these exams to graduate... these exams...u only need to get 40% correct to pass. My sister didnt need to pass hers seeing as we werent going to graduate in Alabama anyway so she marked completely random answers. ...she passed. Further more...another point I did not make in my last argument is this. Nowadays there are schools changing rules. My younger brothers and sisters dont get A's and B's...they get P and PP V and such nonsense... Schools not far from me have removed grades entirely! Im not even sure how that works! Other schools are now changing to grading rules so that a missing assignment is still worth 50%. Our schools are lowering the bar and changing the rules so that no child ""fails"". This is a serious problem. We our pampering students to be unprepared for a world where failure is a reality. Thats one of the beauties of school. It teaches children to gradually take more and more responsibility for their actions. Now...were are taking that away so we dont ""hurt"" our kids. If we had a national curriculum...schools changing rules would be nearly impossible. Charter schools would be supervised by the government. There are so many advantages to this. My biggest point though is EQUALITY... Giving people lower education because they are in a lower class is not equal. It is only setting a lower level of expectations on kids who dont deserve it."	PRO	175
175	Sc7831446-Ae7cf20fd	Free university education unjustly benefits one subset of society at the expense of everyone	The state funds essential services, but higher education is not such a service. The specific subset free university education tends to benefit not the disadvantaged, but rather the middle and upper classes who would have paid fees, but are now relieved of this burden. This pattern has been seen in Ireland where poorer communities still view higher education as something for the rich even though it is free. These groups continue to enter the workforce in similar numbers as they had before the ending of fees, and they still tend to prefer trade schools to universities if they do seek qualifications beyond the secondary level.[1] [1] Brady, Hugh. 2008. “We Must Invest Now in Our Universities or Pay Later”. University College Dublin News. Available: http://www.ucd.ie/news/2008/03MAR08/200308_students.html​        14 Government of Ireland. 1997. “Universities Act, 1997”. Available: http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/1997/en/act/pub/0024/index.html  	PRO	176
176	S1901e66f-A99a9af1c	The Electoral College	"I want to thank the Pro for creating this debate, and I look forward to an interesting discussion. I accept the rules and conditions he set out in his opening. In this debate I will be arguing in favour of reforming the electoral college. Reforming shall be defined as ""to change to a better state, form, etc.; improve by alteration, substitution, abolition, etc."""	CON	177
177	S15cbc009-Af388d054	The US should Ensure Access to Quality Education For Everyone	"""53% of those who had ever experienced poverty during childhood attended college [1]."" --Fair enough, what about the other 47%? You could say that they should work harder, but in that case they would already know that, work harder, and attend college. Please don't take offence, but what are the chances that one person could come up with something that 47% of those who experienced poverty during childhood couldn't? You seem to be operating under the assumption that those who are poor are less intelligent. The fact that this is false is the reason one might intervene in the first place. ï¿½ ""You have not defined quality education other than by assuming private schools do this. In order for your proposal to prove your resolution you would need to show that private schools are quality education."" --""Environments that are healthy, safe, protective and gender-sensitive, and provide adequate resources and facilities; ï¿½ Content that is reflected in relevant curricula and materials for the acquisition of basic skills, especially in the areas of literacy, numeracy and skills for life, and knowledge in such areas as gender, health, nutrition, HIV/AIDS prevention and peace. ï¿½ Processes through which trained teachers use child-centred teaching approaches in well-managed classrooms and schools and skilful assessment to facilitate learning and reduce disparities. ï¿½ Outcomes that encompass knowledge, skills and attitudes, and are linked to national goals for education and positive participation in society."" This is Unicef's definition of quality education, found at http://www.unicef.org.... I would also like to add to that definition that every participant's learning is calibrated for them to reach their full potential, for instance if someone had a gift in observation their scientific side would be developed, and if someone were particularly musical then their musical side would be developed. ""I didn't say they would be more driven in post-secondary only that they might. But this is moot now that you've clarified your proposal."" --As you say. ""You still haven't proven private education is quality education."" --I cannot, of course, prove that all private education is quality education. To do that I would have to analyse the success and the trends of every single private school in the world. Although this isn't conclusive, consider this; why do people stay at private schools rather than going to a free public school? Clearly, there is something that 5,488,000 children and their families find there that they don't find in public schools, the number coming from http://www.capenet.org.... From the same website, a full 55% of parents sending their children to public want to send them to private. ""Okay since you make this argument, where is the constitutional authority for the Federal government to provide financial incentives to the states for education? What form would these incentives take? Which of the enumerated powers are you referring to (Art I, Section 8 US Constitution)?"" --I did not find one. However, according to the Illinois State Board of Education, ""The laws of Illinois and the United States guarantee all students in Illinois access to a quality education."" According to http://www.usconstitution.net..., 2010, quality education is NOT guaranteed by the constitution, and looking at the aforementioned enumerated powers, I did not find anything enabling the government to ""guarantee all students in Illinois access to a quality education."" In fact, they seem to have no authorization to give the state any money for education. Hmmm... --I maintain that the states and people are still able to ensure quality education. ""If the Federal government ensures this proposition with financial incentives, then where does the money come from if not from the federal treasury?"" I clarified that the money would come from those we defined as rich. ""Comparing segregation to wealth disparity is not only a false analogy by somewhat offensive. The analogy fails because there are many reasons for wealth disparity but segregation was based on skin color alone."" I'll counter this argument from the point of view of a white slave-owner. 'Your argument that there are many reasons behind wealth disparity and not behind segregation based on skin color is not only false, but ""somewhat offensive."" It is obvious that God made these people inferior and to work for us. It is only natural that we enslave them for this reason. Why should we even give them an education?' Don't get the idea that I share this view, but for someone who does this would be perfectly natural. I apologize if my argument was offensive, but I will not withdraw it. Even without the above reasoning, according to www.northwestern.edu/ipr/jcpr/workingpapers/wpfiles/fairl, the clearest instance of white families leaving public schools is with concentrations of poor black schoolchildren. This is evidence of a clear relationship. In addition, a large percentage of public school attendees are white. Finally, in either case, we are deciding on a human's rights based on the human's superficial qualities: in one case we judge based on skin color, in another based on how much a person has; this is no basis for deciding access to a quality education. CONCLUSION In summary, the poor can be as intelligent and as deserving as any rich. Many of the poor make an honest effort to get a quality education... and fail. Do you want to deprive the poor of the right to a quality education? Do you want to suddenly remove any chance of a good quarter of our population to further the interests of society and government? With this question, I rest my case. Thanks for the debate!"	PRO	178
178	Sc5b8d1f0-Aa1b87c1a	Is Online College better then Traditional College (Pro=Yes) (Con=No)	When given the choice between the two, I'd have to say traditional college is better. Through traditional college you will be motivated to learn (not just stumble along to get your diploma), have a better learning environment with all the needed resources, and learn the skills and gain the confidence necessary to socially interact with others.	CON	179
179	Sc5b8d1f0-Adcc355e4	Is Online College better then Traditional College (Pro=Yes) (Con=No)	Well you stated that traditional college offers all the needed resources that you need but using the internet you can find everything you need and more. You can get everything you want and there are so many resources online. Traditional college doesn't have the information that the internet can offer.	PRO	180
180	S55c05f7c-A3a666fb0	The Electoral College Should be Abolished	I accept to the terms of this debate, and look forward to an insightful and cordial debate with Pro. Pro will be affirming that electoral college should be abolished. I, as Con, will be negating his case and I will also be attempting to prove that electoral college should remain in place. Good luck to the both us us, and thanks to my opponent for the opportunity to debate such an important topic.	CON	181
181	S55c05f7c-A4501bfd8	The Electoral College Should be Abolished	In this debate, Pro will argue that the Electoral College should be abolished. Con will argue that it should not be abolished. Electoral College - The system or body of people representing the states of the United States, who formally cast votes for the election of the president and vice president every 4 years. Abolish - To repeal by the proper means of amendment through the U.S. Constitution.	PRO	182
182	S912e5771-A5637cd43	college tuition too expensive	"It is unfortunate to hear that the more money you have to take out for school the less likely you are projected to finish. But again there is really no one to blame. Not everybody is fortunate enough to afford college. Yes it is true that not that not many people WANT to go the junior college then an university route, but at the end of the day ""you gotta do what you gotta do"". Even though two thirds of bachelor recipients are 24,000 in debt, we must stay focus on the goal the goal , which is to graduate college. Over a work life, earnings for a worker with a bachelor's degree compared with one who had just a high school diploma increase by about $1 million for non-Hispanic Whites and about $700,000 for African Americans; Asians and Pacific Islanders; and Hispanics. The statistics I have pasted above prove that over a lifetime a degree will increase your income. So paying off 24,000 for 20 to 30 years does seem life a long time. The amount of money you earn over a lifetime overshadows the debt. College being too expensive again is just the after effects of the economy. A great example would be North Carolina colleges. Particularly, NC State recently the budget has been cut by 80 million dollars. This is not the fault of the students or the administration. But something has to be done, should NC State raise tuition to so that it could continue to educate students for years to come, or neglect the budget cuts, keep tuition at the same price and eventually go bankrupt? http://usgovinfo.about.com..."	PRO	183
183	S33b011a1-A191a6b28	The costs of a college education outweigh the benefits	We are cutting out the round used to defend our own cases. This round will be used for con to attack my case, and then round 5 will be final rebuttals/summary.	PRO	184
184	S33b011a1-A74ac11eb	The costs of a college education outweigh the benefits	My opponent and I have decided to forgo this round on the account that I am ill with food poisoning. Thank you.	CON	185
185	S33b011a1-Ad226ff0e	The costs of a college education outweigh the benefits	I accept.	CON	186
186	S1788cfe5-A947e1001	The cost of a college education outweighs the benefits	It is quite unfortunate that my opponent decided to forfeit.	CON	187
187	S1788cfe5-A978d0a33	The cost of a college education outweighs the benefits	I concede and forfeit	PRO	188
188	S1788cfe5-A44c407b9	The cost of a college education outweighs the benefits	OK.	CON	189
189	S1788cfe5-A1a3e8097	The cost of a college education outweighs the benefits	OK. B(	CON	190
190	S1788cfe5-A19572d07	The cost of a college education outweighs the benefits	I did state my sources. Since that is your only refutation, I should win	PRO	191
191	Saf208634-A27226b92	This house would abolish the Electoral College	"I would like to thank death23 for accepting my challenge. We have agreed to debate this subject in a PM. C1: Undermines American Democracy The Electoral College (EC hereafter), undermines the popular vote in the U.S. Presidential elections. Four times through history, the EC went against the public vote (1). Furthermore, the percentage that is won in the EC vote is often far greater than that of the popular vote. For example, in 2012, Presient Obama was won re-election. Although he won 51% of the popular vote, he received over 60% of the EC vote (2). This also creates an interesting problem. It only takes only 11 states to win the EC, and thus the Presidency (3), even if that candidate loses signifigantly in the other states. As a result, it is mathematically possible to win the Presidency with a mere 22% of the popular vote (4). The EC also violates the one-man, one-vote principle. In certain states, the EC makes your vote worth far more than had you voted in another state. An individual vote in Wyoming counts nearly 4 times more in the EC than in Texas, because Wyoming has 3 electoral college votes in a population of 532,668 citizens and Texas 32 lectoral votes for a population of almost 25 million. As FairVote notes ""By dividing the population by electoral votes, we can see that Wyoming has one ""elector"" for every 177,556 people and Texas has one ""elector"" for about every 715,499. The difference between these two states of 537,943 is the largest in the EC."" (5) C3: Swing states Among the major disadvantages of the EC is the fact that the election is usually decided by a handful of swing states. Consequently, candidates often focus solely on those 6 of 7 states, while ignoring the rest of the country. Should the EC be abolished, it would force candidates to work to gain votes in all 50 states. C4: The EC lowers voter-turnout Because all states have a winner-takes-all system, it discourages people from voting. If you are a conservative living in a solid liberal state (or vice-versa), why would you bother to go out and vote knowing that your vote won't count in the overall EC vote. Taylor B notes (6): ""I think it would be more equitable to force more nationally-focused campaigns. Imagine Barack Obama speaking to crowds in Dallas or Mitt Romney campaigning in New York City. At the very least, it might engage more people in the national debate. If we ever hope to breach the 60% voter turnout threshold last seen in the 1960s (the last two elections have produced around 57%), this is one way to do so. The lawsuits that emerged in the fallout of the 2000 election will be less likely to reappear. When one state decides an election, it behooves all sides to fight for those electoral votes. If the popular vote decided the winner, I doubt we’d see such fallout again."" Richard J. Cebula and Dennis R. Murphy concludes in his research paper published in Public Choice (7) ""Abolition of the present Electoral College system may not only lead to more voting, but, in particular, to more voting for alternative parties, and hence to more voting for alternative national policies, than presently takes place."" Over to con. Sources 1. http://www.factcheck.org...; 2. http://www.fec.gov...; 3. http://www.martyduren.com...; 4. https://www.squarefree.com...; 5. http://www.fairvote.org...; 6. http://www.forbes.com...; 7. Note that the full source can be accessed by going to sci-hub.cc and Copy+Pasting the URL, though the conclusion is available on the website. http://link.springer.com..."	PRO	192
192	Sf6f74b-Ab9c53a80	The Electoral College is Misrepresentative	The electoral college is not representative of America that was the point of this debate :L	PRO	193
193	Sadecd01c-A3a56a200	The life of an adult has more intrinsic worth than that of a child.	"Hello, Today I will be arguing that the life of an adult has more intrinsic worth than that of a child. I am the pro side. The con side will be arguing that a child as more intrinsic worth than that of an adult. First I would like to thank my audience and opponent and request that this debate only be taken by a articulate person that wishes to have a logical debate. Please have a pleasant debate. Secondly; a few rules: 1) All arguments should be logically presented. 2) Any statements should be supported with a source (except for general knowledge statements) 3) Points must be clearly numbered. 4) The lack of refuting a point in the next post will concede an agreement on that point. 5) Ad hominem is considered a foul. Thirdly; debate structure: First Round -Define and set up argument Second Round - Construct first points Third Round- Rebuttals for opponents first points and construct final points. Fourth Round - Rebuttals for opponents final points and conclusions. To begin my argument I would like to make a few definitions: Adult : A person above the age of 18 Child : A person below the age of 18 Intrinsic : ""belonging to the essential nature or constitution of a thing"" http://www.merriam-webster.com... Worth: "" the value of something measured by its qualities or by the esteem in which it is held"" http://www.merriam-webster.com... In this argument the question will boil down to, if it came to a logical choice, who should continue living, an adult or a child. Now to outline my argument: Firstly I will show that the resources invested in an adult to allow them to survive to adulthood gives them intrinsic worth. Then I will show how an adult, how is more cognitively aware adult understands the worth of their own life and because of that understanding have more intrinsic worth. Finally I will discuss how the larger amounts of social connections of an adult makes gives them more worth in a community. I await a response. Good luck and good debating."	PRO	194
194	S1ec571b6-Abbe12b38	Should We Keep The Electoral College	"Against Democracy? The argument that a candidate could win the election with only 21% of the vote is extremely weak. In a direct popular vote, third parties would begin to arise because chances for victory would increase. In a direct vote system, you don’t need to win a majority, only a plurality. If enough third parties came into existence, the same exact scenario would be plausible if we abolished the electoral college (EC). The Conservative party in Canada, where there isn’t an electoral college, won with only 37% of the vote [1. http://bit.ly...]. In the UK, the Conservatives won with only 36% of the vote [2. http://bbc.in...]. In Sweden, the Social Democratic party won with 30.7% of the vote [3. http://bit.ly...]. The issue of winning a plurality and not a majority of votes would exist even if we abolished the electoral college. The EC legitimizes a victorious candidate. Lincoln only won 39.7% of the vote when he became president. However, he won twice as many electoral college votes as his opponent, Breckinridge. This legitimized the victory and allowed Lincoln to become president [4. http://bit.ly...] For candidates who technically lose the popular vote, but win a majority of the electoral college, it makes it easier for them to claim victory because they handily won in the actual electoral process. Even in close elections, the electoral college result is usually won by large margins [5. http://herit.ag...]. By causing a clear victory in a close election, people will rally behind the President. Only three US presidents have ever won the electoral college without a plurality in the national vote. The debate isn’t over the EC necessarily being democratic, but rather between democracy with Federalism or with democracy lacking Federalism. According to the Heritage Foundation, “[T]he issue is democracy with federalism (the Electoral College) versus democracy without federalism (a national popular vote). Either is democratic. Only the Electoral College preserves federalism, moderates ideological differences and promotes national consensus in our choice of a chief executive.” [6. http://herit.ag...]. An academic study on the issue has found that voting power in the electoral college versus a popular vote is about the same. Not only this, but the electoral college always favors the winner of the popular vote unless the popular vote is extremely close. The power of an individual vote is charted below [10. http://bit.ly...] s://lh4.googleusercontent.com...; alt="""" width=""505px;"" height=""286px;"" /> The actual power of an individual vote is about the same when compared to popular vote. In the 1990s, individual votes were significantly more powerful under the EC than what would have occurred if we had a popular vote. This demonstrates how the EC can be more democratic than a simple voting tally. All emphasis on swing states? Staunch red states like Utah received visits from Gov. Romney and Vice President Joe Biden during the 2012 election. Blue New York and California also attracted attention from both sides. Although it is true that Ohio and Florida received the most attention, to say that small states are ignored is incorrect [7. http://wapo.st...]. Although ad spending was concentrated in swing states, small states like Iowa, Nevada, New Hampshire, and Vermont recieved a significant amount of attention, suggesting these small states have a an impact on election outcomes [8. http://wapo.st...]. A peer-reviewed study published in the journal Economic Inquiry found that votes in “New Mexico, Virginia, New Hampshire, and Colorado,” all small states, have a larger effect on voting outcomes than other states [9. http://bit.ly...]. The EC accomplishes the goal of empowering small states. What’s wrong with a popular vote? Tyranny of the majority. As James Madison wrote, “[A] pure democracy ... can admit no cure for the mischiefs of faction. A common passion or interest will be felt by a majority, and there is nothing to check the inducements to sacrifice the weaker party. ... democracies have ever been found incompatible with personal security or the rights of property.” [11. http://bit.ly...] Vote recounts. Although recounts occur in our current system, recounts are usually local. Electoral college margins of victory are much larger than victories in the popular vote. As the electoral college usually gives one side a large advantage in votes, despite the election being close, recounts are useless because multiple states would have to flip--the only recent exception was 2000. In Europe has had recount issues. In 2006, Italy recounted their votes [12. http://ind.pn...]. In 2014, some UK parliamentary races were recounted [13. http://bbc.in...]. In 2010, Sweden recounted their parliamentary election votes [14. http://reut.rs...]. The issue with recounts is that they cost time and money. For congressional races, where we do not have an EC (but instead popular) system, we are already facing recount cost issues. It cost the state of Washington over $1 million to recount votes in its 2004 gubernatorial election and $460,000 for Michigan’s 2008 senate election [15. http://bit.ly...]. Imagine if we applied this to the nation as a whole. The cost would be sky high. COUNTERPLAN: Mend it, don’t end it If we were to have a system like Nebraska or Maine in every state, it would encourage more attention to smaller states and virtually eliminate the issue of an undemocratic outcome while still promoting Federalism. Like in Nebraska and Maine, the winner of the statewide vote would receive two electoral votes. The rest of the electoral votes would be split based on who won congressional districts. Say Obama won New Mexico’s election. He gets two electoral votes. He also wins two congressional districts, and Romney won the southern district. That means Romney gets one electoral vote from NM, and Obama gets 4. This removes the worry of my opponent’s contention 2 and minimizes the threat of having an undemocratic outcome."	PRO	195
195	S45570f76-Ac0642fe	In the United States, the Electoral College should be abolished.	"Introduction ------------------ I will be arguing against the abolishing of the Electoral College as it is too important to give up. 1. The Electoral College Gives More Counties/ States A Voice Half of the US populates 146 counties out of the 3000 that exist in the country [1]. With the Electoral College, every state has at least 3 electors [2]. This means that presidential candidates who tend to the needs of more counties/ states than just the ones with the highest population will more likely get elected, then reelected again. If the most probable alternative to the Electoral College was to be in place, which is victory by popular vote, then a handful of states could essentially decide the election which clearly would not be fair to the other states who may have different views and needs than the most populated states. Therefore, the Electoral College gives more counties and states a voice than the likely alternative. The United States of America includes the word ""United"" for a reason. If a handful of states had an overwhelming amount of voting power with regards to a presidential election compared to the vast majority of states then that would cause resentment and divide the country up in a horrendous way. Since the Electoral College keeps things more fair and balanced than its most likely alternative, and would enforce what the ""United"" States of America stands for, then this section clearly paints a picture as to why we should not abolish the Electoral College. 2. Errors Remain Local In 2000 the presidential election was absolutely terrible as it involved a recount in one state which took multiple weeks to settle [3]. If we needed a nationwide recount due to errors pertaining to a popular vote nationwide then this would drag out an election unnecessarily. 3. Abolishing The Electoral College Would Be A Waste Of Time And Resources This reason ties in to the last one. It would be very difficult to amend the constitution in a way that gets rid of the Electoral College, just as it would be very difficult to amend the constitution in a way which makes it so citizens don't have the right to bear arms. To get a constitutional amendment one would need a 2/3 vote in the Senate and The House/ 38 states need to be on board [4]. To abolish the Electoral College one would have to change the constitution dramatically to this point would cost an asinine amount of time and money to campaign and pander to the right people. Since such a task would require a massive amount of resources and precious time that would be better spent elsewhere (such as fixing the economy or combating pollution). Abolishinng the Electoral College in favor of something like a popular vote would not be a good idea; the ends do not justify the means (especially considering the fact that the popular vote usually matches up with the winner decided by the Electoral College anyway; there have only been 2 instances where this hasn't been the case since 1888 [5]). 4. Abolishing The Electoral College In The US Is Philosophically Unsound Abolishing the Electoral College in favour of a win by popular vote would make no sense, as there are State laws as well as Federal laws. This necessitates a deeply rooted fact that the US isn't just a hunk of land with a bunch of people living in it governed by only one set of rules. If that was the case then an argument for a popular vote to elect the president may be able to get off the ground. However, at the end of the day, the US is 50 states which are significantly independent of one another. In California for example, marijuana is legal [6], in Texas you can end up in jail for even a small amount [7]. The point being is that it would make no sense to get rid of the Electoral College in the US because the Electoral College is based on a state by state race, which makes sense as each state is significantly independent of another. Even though they exist under one umbrella, there is not sufficient integration as certain state laws differ from others so dramatically. However, if the presidential election was won by popular vote then it completely disregards the fact that there are states. This makes no sense based on what the United States of America actually is. So even if it could be argued that victory by popular vote is better than the Electoral College in general, or with regards to other countries, it would be make no sense to argue that this is true for the United States specifically. The Electoral College acknowledges the sovereignty of each state, and gives all states involved in the election more of a fighting chance (which ties into my first reason to keep the Electoral College). 5. An Obvious Victor In elections where the votes are too close to call the Electoral College makes it so there is an obvious victor. John F. Kennedy defeated Richard M. Nixon on November 8, 1960 in one of the tightest elections in which 68 million voters went to the polls. Both sides accused the other of fraudulent acts but because Kennedy had more Electoral votes then he was the clear victor and a national recount was avoided [8]. 6. Abolishing The Electoral College Would Tear Apart Federalism The Electoral College represents Federalism [9], so if we get rid of it then we might as well get rid of the Senate. In fact, there might as well not be any states at all. That is not what the forefathers intended. 7. The Electoral College Aided In The End Of Slavery As Allen Guelzo and James Hulme, a Civil War professor and Attorney write: ""... It was the Electoral College that made it possible to end slavery, since Abraham Lincoln only earned 39% of the popular vote in the election of 1860, but won a crushing victory in the Electoral College. This, in large measure, was why Southern slave owners stampeded into succession in 1860-61. They could do the numbers as well as anyone, and realized that the Electoral College would only produce more anti-slavery Northern presidents."" [10] [11] Something that was so instrumental in abolishing something as awful as slavery clearly has its usefulness, and should not be abolished. This ties back to my ""An Obvious Victor"" section, because when the popular vote is so close the Electoral College will decide the clear winner without wasting any more valuable time. 8. The Electoral College Removes Incentive For Candidates To Rig Elections If you have an overwhelmingly blue state and overwhelmingly red state the incentive to try to rig the election decreases as as the state-wide winner is what counts, not the popular vote over all, and we basically know how things will turn out anyway in certain states. However, if a popular vote was implemented, the incentive would strongly remain in these scenarios to stuff ballot boxes. In Conclusion -------------------- I have presented 8 powerful reasons showing that we should not abolish the Electoral College, and look forward to rebutting my opponent's arguments. Sources ------------ [1] http://www.businessinsider.com... [2] https://www.archives.gov... [3] https://www.google.ca... [4] http://www.lexisnexis.com... [5] http://www.history.com... [6] http://statelaws.findlaw.com... [7] http://statelaws.findlaw.com... [8] http://www.sciencebuzz.org... [9] http://digitalcommons.liberty.edu... [10] https://www.britannica.com... [11] https://www.google.ca..."	CON	196
196	S1bd03141-A311f3027	Rescuing our Failing Education System	I agree with rescuing our failing education system. I think it is cause that all Americans can agree with. The argument is on how this should be executed. I believe that Pro has a poor plan borrowed from Germany. I will be proving that there is a much better education model called the charter school system. I will be proving that the charter school system will outmatch the German system, and make this system look pathetic. Charter School System-A charter school is a US and Canadian term for a school that receives public funding, but operates independently of the established public school system, in which it is located. Charter schools are an example of alternative education. I believe that public schools need to compete, and blossom new education systems that will satisfy ambitious students. I believe that schools need to compete for Parental approval in order for a better education system. http://www.ncpa.org... This link outlines the idea that private schools outperform public schools. This is because private schools are allowed to compete. They compete for parental approval, and if they do not perform well, than Parents can take their kids out. A 10 percent increase in enrollment in private schools improves PISA math test scores by more than nine percent of a standard deviation, nearly equal to a half a year's worth of learning. For science and reading, a 10 percent increase in private school enrollment generates an improvement of more than five percent of a standard deviation -- more than one-fifth of a grade level. In educational spending, a 10 percent increase in the private school enrollment leads to a $3,209 reduction in spending per student -- on average, more than 5 percent of the total education spending per student through age 15 for OECD countries. In the Netherlands, more than three-quarters of 15-year-old students attend privately operated schools; about 50 percent of students attend private schools in Belgium, Ireland and Korea, while only 5 percent attend private schools in Greece, Iceland, Italy, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Sweden and Turkey. - See more at: http://www.ncpa.org... Public Schools need the same kind of system. If the German system is forced on all schools, than it might not work, and launch another 12 years of horribly educated people. In a charter school system, schools are free to use a German system, and Finland System. If it works more schools will try to perfect the system. Germany is also different from America, and a German System is subject to unintended consequences in America.	CON	197
197	Sc1b11a97-A87b4d2aa	Free Education	"I thank Con for their reply. Arguments for ""free education"" 1)Economic If the worst thing that happens in society that people take ""advantage"" of free education, I think we can live with it. 2) Civic Con doesn't refute my point here, just gives an interpretation of the American Constitution. 3) Fairness I don't think the cruelty of nature is a good guide to morality or public policy. It's a good thing Cons parents don't share Con's guide to morality here, cause you know, some animals have been known to eat their young. It doesn't follow that the taxes for free education are mostly paid by those who don't get a free education. In places where some sort of school is mandatory everyone is a user of free education so no one is a non user. In regards to a question as to why people should fund free education then I refer Con to my points on economic, civic and fairness. Oh look at Europe therefore lets get rid of free education Con mentions Europe once again, but their comments is only relevant to OVERALL BENEFITS, we are only talking about one area here, that being free education. Seems to me Con is throwing out an anti goverment spending net and public education has just been caught within this net. As I alluded too before, before you start cutting education, how about addressing issues such as tax avoidance/minimization by the rich, income from assets vs income from work, wealth distribution etc before you start cutting a public good."	PRO	198
198	S1901e6eb-Aaeb36ec1	The Electoral College	"""Minor"" Reforms The reforms you state would be almost exactly identical with a popular vote besides a very minor boost to the popular vote winner by state for the senators. You realize this right? This is NOT a minor change to the current system. This is a major change. This means you're effectively against the Electoral College as it stands now. The audience can be the judge of this, But from my view it appears as if you've conceded every point but one, And that one point you're holding on to I've addressed and you did not rebut. It's going to be the only other thing I comment on. Your proposed system would be major reform, And only marginally different than popular vote. You are effectively con the current EC, Which is what this debate is about. 2. ""The Candidates have to pay attention to the needs of the small states. "" You've entirely missed the point that the candidates did not visit 25 out of the 50 states, And 96% of their time and money were spent in 12 states. None of the places they spent the majority of their time was a small state. Your point is invalid unless you can somehow prove that by not spending almost any money and not visiting any of these small states they're somehow prioritizing them over large states. It's an incredibly moot and deficient point. You have to concede this point. It is indefensible. Your argument is that occasionally states become swing states instead of solidly one party or another, And that is why they have to pay attention to small states? No. They will pay attention to swing states when they're swinging and ignore them when they aren't. This is, Again, Why only 2 'small' states, Depending on how you define small, Were visited even once or twice by the candidates in 2016. If your suggested major reform goes into effect, Which is essentially 83% or more of a popular vote system, Then of course I would have few problems with it. Of course it would solve the problems. That's exactly what we're debating here. The destruction of the current Electoral College. 3. Republic versus Direct Democracy Representative numbers are determined by population. Representatives themselves are elected by popular vote, But only per district. Why, If I argue that we should have one federal branch of checks and balances determined by overall popular vote, Is this a bad thing? Why are you appealing to tradition saying ""We are a Republic, Therefore no system should be popular vote"" while essentially suggesting major reform to the electoral college to practically make it a popular vote system? All you would have to do to become completely popular vote would be to get rid of the votes given to each state based on their senate numbers and it would be virtually indistinguishable from a popular vote system. Popular vote doesn't mean direct democracy. We aren't voting for policies. We are voting for a candidate who will go on to represent us. This is how it works in Republics. The people vote on representatives to make decisions, And the people hold them accountable when it comes time for reelection. The founding fathers may have had a fear of direct democracy, But popular vote for a presidential candidate is not direct democracy. It's an election of a representative. You have equated popular vote for a representative and direct democracy in your mind, When it is the exact opposite. In republics, Representatives can be elected with any number of systems and it is still a republic. The US government is more accurately described as a 'constitutional republic' or a 'representative democracy. ' To conclude, We have the House determined by districts in the state, Not even a democratic popular vote per se. Only the number of representatives USED TO BE determined by population, And is no longer. We have the Senate which evenly represents all states regardless of population. This protects the states. Why are we arguing that we need an additional layer of small state protection when we already have the Senate and when small states are almost universally ignored in our current one? How is this a defense of our current electoral college? To argue that some people's vote only gets to count for a fourth of another's and that is OK is absurd to the extreme. My guess would be that no founding father would defend it with the current HoR freeze in place. The fathers would probably have an aneurysm if they saw what their system has become. If we have a spectrum with Popular Vote on one side and our current Electoral college on another, Your suggestions are about 85% of the way to a popular vote. This cannot be considered minor changes. You've already accepted that the minorities in each state are discouraged from voting and that their numbers are counted against their candidate and that is something that needs to be changed. You've argued that the imbalanced of voting power per person 3. 6:1 is acceptable, Yet you also argue that it needs to be changed, Effectively having your cake and eating it too. You've accepted that 21% of the popular vote COULD determine the presidency, However unlikely, And that would be patently absurd. You've agreed that the HoR being frozen due to EC and large state power, Even though that is the whole reason it exists, Is not desirable. I'm sorry but it sounds like you're against the Electoral College already, Friend. If you accept the inevitable conclusion that the current EC doesn't protect small states, And that your suggested change is way closer to the popular vote system than the current EC, We are left with you having conceded the entire debate. I don't think that arguing for a system of EC that is vastly closer to popular vote than our current EC is by any means minor, And it is not by any means a ""pro"" electoral college position. We aren't debating what the EC could be. We're debating what the EC IS. May your thoughts be clear, -Thoht"	CON	199
199	S6097348b-Afd3730e8	Is nature worth more attention than technology	I will keep my comments for this round short given that Pro forfeited the last round. Final remarks and statements by Con. Pro provides some claims and reasons for why nature is worth more attention than technology. However, they exclusively rely on inferences that Con does not accept as valid inferences. Here is Pro’s final statement from the third round: “ 7.) I would just like to end my argument with this. If people were to hate nature than why do they build parks in the cities, why do we put flowers in our house, why is it considered more romantic to bring flowers to a girl instead of a new phone if people really do prefer technology.” The inference drawn is that because people in some instances incorporate nature into their lives, especially where they could have selected a technology in its place, then it necessarily follows that people in general believe nature is worth more attention than technology. While Con does not accept this as a valid form of argumentation, this may not be the view of voters, therefore I will adopt it to make one final argument similar to others made in Round 3. Because Pro uses the internet, is a member of DDO, and has a computer-based device, and consume electricity then Pro supports Con’s position that technology is worth more attention than nature. My evidence for this claim come from facts I can assume about Pro’s life. First, Pro has to use the internet otherwise it would be impossible to have this debate. Second, because Pro is a member of DDO and has not stated to belong to a debating society, then I will assume Pro prefers an internet debating forum over one where two human exchange ideas in nature. I used the word computer-based technology because this must be the case (laptop, desktop, cellphone, IPad, IPhone, Surface, etc.). Finally, Pro must have access to electricity of some kind. Therefore, all of these things lead Con to assume that in reality, Pro accepts Con’s position. Voters should take into consideration the following: BOP for this debate = 100% Pro’s Con was the only side to provide claims backed up my evidence, cited in footnotes. Pro did not rebut Con’s definition of technology to rebut any claims (which are Con’s central arguments) in Round 3.	CON	200
200	S1b21a2f2-A6b855859	Free University Education	Introduction First I would like to clarify that, even though this debate is applicable to all countries, I am focusing on Britain since I am British; and furthermore this debate pertains to Britain particularly as there will be a general election next month and tuition fees are an oft-debated subject between opposing political parties. Britain is also the birthplace of the university, with its institutions setting the mould for universities worldwide. Finally, it is extremely difficult to obtain statistics that are representative of the world population, so I have to pick a country from which to draw statistics, despite one country not being representative of all other countries. Therefore, I request that I am forgiven for using UK statistics. Financial benefits / costs My opponent cites the large amount of debt that is the result of university. However, the fact remains that student debt allows anyone go to university no matter how poor. So the assertion that university fees make it inaccessible remains refuted. Furthermore, a graduate is generally more likely to get a higher paying job than a non-graduate, so this would cancel out the debt acquired at university. Finally, student debt is one of the most moderate forms of debt there is: 1. If you earn less than £16910, then you don't have to repay the debt (1) 2. You only pay 9% of what you earn (2) 3. If you don't pay it off within 25 years, then it's written off (3). To summarise, student debt isn't some life-destroying, crippling financial burden - it is actually very manageable and will be likely to be completely offset by the salary increase from a graduate job. There is very little actual risk involved; if you don't earn enough to repay it, then you don't have to. And if you can't pay it off after 25 years, then you don't have to. But considering the personal financial benefits that university can give, a mild form of debt is a very generous form of payment for it. Graduates My opponent doggedly insists that graduates would be willing to work in undesirable jobs, but the high level of graduate unemployment suggests otherwise (4). Besides, when was the last time you saw a fresh-out-of-college graduate working in a low-paying job? I can't remember. Pro makes a valid point regarding how graduates are more likely to be more educated than non-graduates. But this is only theoretical education, not real-world, practical wisdom. Employers consistently say that experience is more valuable than theory. (5) Moreover, a degree only provides education in a specific area. For example someone with a degree in ancient history will only be highly educated in ancient history. Therefore graduates would only be significantly valuable to the job areas that accord with their degree, which limits their options in the job market. I agree with pretty much everything my opponent writes in his last paragraph, but people can study civil rights, philosophy, history, science etc.. in high school. One doesn't need to go to university to become educated in these matters. Ultimately, my opponent's last argument is an argument for free schooling, not necessarily for free university. Conclusion I would like to thank my opponent for the debate, it is certainly an interesting subject with more aspects than I initially predicted. But overall, I maintain that my opponent has not given sufficient reason why the government ought to pay for university education instead of the beneficiaries themselves. (1) http://www.moneysavingexpert.com... (2) ibid. (3) http://www.studentloanrepayment.co.uk... (4) http://www.ibtimes.co.uk... (5) http://www.theguardian.com...	CON	201
201	Sb6d2bbc8-A2865408c	The Electoral College Should Be Abolished	I accept this debate. The Electoral College needs to be removed.	PRO	202
202	S1901e6eb-A597dd769	The Electoral College	"Whether you think it's minor or major, It is absolutely the intention of the founding fathers reason for implementing the electoral college, And the reforms would still be constitutional. They modeled it off of congress so it would give power to the small states and prevent majority rule. These are NOT major reforms. They tackle the problem of the winner takes all system, And thats it. What it does is exactly what congress does, Gives small states a disproportionate amount of power. These reforms would merely fit more to the vision of the founding fathers, But you are treating it like it is an exact replica of the popular vote system when it really isn't. 2. Did you ignore my criticism of the winner takes all system? This is just what I pointed out, A reformed electoral college would negate this. Beyond this, ""They will pay attention to swing states when they're swinging and ignore them when they aren't"" Did anyone know that Wisconsin, Maine, And Minnesota, Where the polls showed a significant democrat lead, Ended up becoming swing states? It's not exactly easy to predict when a state will swing, And it is completely possible to flip them if you merely appeal to them, Which is just why Trump did so well in them. Trump appealed well to them and Clinton didn't appeal as well as other candidates. 3. What a reformed electoral system"	PRO	203
203	Sc1b11a97-A5b9e87b8	Free Education	"Thank you for your response. Everyone loves ""free"" stuff. The amusing thing is, some people are willing to pay more for it then others - or, in this case let others pay more for it. Bottom line, is anything ever really ""free""? People believe that the duty of the government is to provide children with free education. The constant rise in our tax dollars pay for that free education. In fact as defined by Frederic Bastiat, the purpose of law, rejects the public school systems. To support that argument it was said that "" education is not the purpose of the government and that government education is socialistic."" Con obviously has a hard time justifying the premise that our society as it currently exists without so-called universally free education, is the most benevolently in the history of mankind. I can not help him with his deep seeded cynicism. But again I propose the argument/fact that nothing is really free and only the naive would believe otherwise."	CON	204
204	S1bdb82e-Aac53648	A Debate On The Electoral College	"Resolution: The Electoral College system in the United States of America should remain as the system of choosing our president. Definition: The presidential electors who meet after the citizens vote for president and cast ballots for the president and vice president. Each state is granted the same number of electors as it has senators (see United States Senate) and representatives combined. These electors, rather than the public, actually elect the president and the vice president. The Founding Fathers assumed that electors would exercise discretion and not necessarily be bound by the popular vote, but the rise of political parties undermined this assumption. Electors are now pledged in advance to vote for the candidate of their party, and nearly always do so. Thus, the vote of the Electoral College is largely a formality. http://dictionary.reference.com... Contention 1: The Electoral College makes votes unheard. 1A: In four elections, a candidate won the Electoral Vote without winning the Popular vote.(http://www.270towin.com... Go to 2000 and check election facts.) This means the candidate with the popular vote did not win, making the votes unheard. 1B: The U.S. census The official U.S. census is taken every ten years. This decides the number of representatives and thus, electors. This leaves no compensation for a sharp rise or drop in population, leading to overepresentation and underrepresentation. 1C: The Tie Situation In the event no candidate has a majority of the Electoral Votes, The House of Representatives decides the president. This happened in the 1800 election and led to trickery and bribery, with a highly partasian battle. (http://www.u-s-history.com...) Contention 2: Overrepresentation and Underrepresentation In Wyoming citizens have more inffluence on the Electoral College by a margain of 4 to 1 (http://www.fairvote.org...) this leads to cititzens in certain states have more ""power"" than others. I thank in advance whoever takes this debate and say, Good Luck."	CON	205
205	S9f212a53-Aa275f678	Voucher Education	1) In your first paragraph you assume that voucher education and free market business are two different animals. They are not. They both provide a service, they both have customers, they both require funding, and they're both regulated by and responsive to market forces. What you appear to be describing is our schooling system in its current form, in which case, you may be right. But the argument in question centers around voucher education, which is a free market. 2) You are over simplifying the situation of the US Postal service. You step over the existence of UPS and FedEx, but you cannot. True, these companies do not deliver a great deal of mail, but they do deliver parcels and packages, which is also a large portion of the US Postal service's business. Further, email has taken away an incredible amount of the post office's commerce. The claim that the post office has no competition is simply unsound. Thank you for mentioning the postal industry, for it further illustrates the power of choice. You have an equal opportunity to select from an assortment of businesses that will ship your packages for you, and these businesses know this. Because the customer can pick any service he wants, businesses must strive to make sure that they pick theirs by improving the quality and price of shipping. 3) Again, you assume that success and profit are not related in the free market. They are, in fact. In the business world, profit is generated by profit. You generally don't have a poor-service business that rakes in mountains of cash. The idea that you present is a circumstance of today's education system, not voucher education. The circumstance being that public schools receive set amounts of tax dollars regardless of their performance. I'd like to ask my opponent to reserve round 4 for a brief conclusive statement that wraps up the sum of his argument. I will do the same.	PRO	206
206	Sc9466f76-Aeeb2578f	Single Sex Education is Better than Co-Education	"Thank you for posting punctually and clearly! I will begin my counter refuting his refutations. Counter Refutations 1. Many other studies show performance due to presence of other students. The study cited no exam results and I am sure they are not as drastic as that which we can see in the Florida Comprehensive Assessment Test, where boys received a 49% up in their grades without girls. 2. We can not force boys to love painting or girls to love computers. Of course we can't, but single-sex schools teach students that gender differences are in the mind, and that they can explore any subject previously deemed ""boyish"" or ""girly"" without fear of being judged. 3. I believe that girls not choosing professions is due to the chauvinism of men. First of all, their entire refutation is an opinion with no evidence. Second of all, to entertain my opponent's belief, the chauvinism of men is perpetuated in co education schools! Just the fact that girls are cheerleaders and boys are football players extends the stereotype that somehow boys are more powerful and strong than girls, and that a girl's only purpose is to stand on the sideline and ""cheer for the people that actually do the work"". We cannot be teaching girls that certain things are off bounds because they are dominated by men. 4. To understand the gender completely one needs to interact with many persons and experience companionship of various people having different personality traits. School is not the only method of learning people's opinions. My opponent is correct, there are many people with many different values and opinions. What he has not stated is why you can't learn these opinions outside of class. Arguably, students meet more people outside of class then they do inside. Refutations 1. Students at co-education schools learn to interact better with the people of opposite gender. Children will gain sufficient exposure to other genders in their adult life. At school, they need to be around who they feel comfortable with. As to your quote, it seems that the writer of the article adapted well in to the real world and is experiencing no problems now that she is out of college. 2. Co-education provides a platform for students of one gender to compete with those of the other gender. Children shouldn't be taught that ""they are worse than boys"" in some subjects. This just perpetuates bad stereotypes. Kids don't need competitiveness with the other gender to thrive. 3. Co-education helps in exchange of views and opinions between the students of opposite genders. I agree that boys and girls have similar opinions, but teacher's give students the valid opinions they need. Teachers can easily show kids two perspectives and let them learn from the experience. 4. The level of understanding and learning by students depends upon efficiency of teacher and not specialized methods. This is false. Not only do children need good teachers to thrive and learn, the efficiency of teachers are very reliant on specialized methods. Teachers know what is best for each student and how to teach them. Teachers are incredibly influential to a student's learning (haven't you ever had a good teacher or a bad one?), and giving them specialized methods improves a student's academic life greatly. 5. Education doesn't mean only academic performance. Involvement of both boys and girls is necessary in many other activities of life. My opponent says ""Imagine a school football team without cheerleaders and a prom night with only boys and girls."" First of all, single sex schools provide inter school events. Most schools belong to inter school groups where they can interact with other schools for things like prom night. It would be painstaking to mention every single inter school league, and false to say that every single school belongs to one, but I can safely say that many schools do. These schools compete together, have events together, do community service together, etc. Also, do we really need cheerleaders at a football game? Sure, they motivated the players a bit, but cheerleaders perpetuate gender stereotypes. Having girl cheerleaders teaches children that girls should stand on the sidelines while the men do the work."	PRO	207
207	Saf13dc4a-A82d09033	That a human life is intrinsically worth more than the life of an animal	Sadly, it would appear my opponent has either lost interest or otherwise been prevented from posting his round three argument. I'll just wrap up by summarising Pro's arguments and my responses. Pro has presented the following arguments for a human life being worth more than an animal life: 1) Humans live longer 2) Humans have the potential to achieve good things 3) Humans possess emotions and language (communication skills) 4) Humans form societies 5) Humans know the difference between good and bad To which my responses were: 1) The are quite a number of animals that live longer, on average, than humans. Does this mean that these animals are worth more than humans? Also, the worth of a life cannot be judged by its length, as I showed by example. 2) And humans have the ability to achieve appallingly evil things. There is no reason to adopt this as an argument for a human life being more valuable than any other mammal. 3) Non-human animals have also been demonstrated to experience all of the emotions typical of humans. Also, all species can communicate with each other, some far better than humans can, and in ways we don't fully understand. On any account, why should this be the determining factor with regards to how much a life is worth? 4) So do ants, bees and termites. So do all animals, but most other societies function more harmoniously than humans. 5) Some do, and a great many choose bad. Some assume that non-human species have no concept of right and wrong. I don't consider this proven, but even if it were, does that make their life worth less? Pro hasn't provided a single valid reason why a human life is worth more than that of a non-human animal, so I request that voters cast their vote with Con. Thanks to Pro for participating, and for his good conduct during the debate.	CON	208
208	S4a5c09b0-Ad4ad39bc	Radical Life Extension technology is worth pursuing.	In this debate I will be arguing that radical life extension technology is worth pursuing for individuals and society.	PRO	209
209	Sb6d2bbc8-Ab8d5f991	The Electoral College Should Be Abolished	This debate is on whether the electoral college should be eliminated. I will be arguing in opposition to the resolutio , while my opponent will be arguing in favor of it. Because Pro is arguing for the policy change, BOP lies on Pro. Definitions: Electoral College - The institution by which the President and Vice President of the United States are selected. Abolished - Completely (de facto and de jure) repealed and replaced by a different process Round structure: Round 1: Acceptance Round 2: Opening statements (no rebuttals) Round 3: Clash/new arguments Round 4: Clash/closing statements (no new arguments) Rules: 1. Going outside the debate structure results in forfeiture 2. In the event of forfeiture, the side that did not forfeit wins and should receive any and all points from voters	CON	210
210	Sfe4e6726-A75df53e2	Resolved: Affirmative action should be practiced in college admissions.	"I thank my opponent for a quick response, and some good points. With that said, lets get to my final responses. === OBSERVATIONS === Re: O1- I'll agree with my opponent, this contention has been irrelevant because we both have debated the big picture *All other observations were agreed upon by both, my opponent and I* === CONTENTIONS === My opponent concedes all three of my contentions, so flow those to the CON side. Re: Contention 4- My opponent asserts that removing AA would be a form of AA in and of itself. This, however, is a flawed idea. We're simply returning to a system that's fair and balanced and offers everyone an equal shot. I assume my opponent thinks that by removing AA means the demographics of college campuses would change drastically. The are many, many competent people in every sector of our world. Throughout all races, classes, socio-economic levels, political affiliation, religious views, etc. AA shouldn't exist at all. When you look at my answer to C1 and my C2 and C3, it's easily apparent that AA actually has a negative effect on our entire country. Getting rid of AA doesn't enforce any form of AA at all, and changing it is a bad idea because it still leads to the effects of C2 (de-valuing the worth of the degree earned by one favored under an AA policy) because someone still has to be favored. Anytime you favor someone, you exclude someone who might've gotten in without the AA policy, and this destroys ingenuity. Fixing it is not a option, and getting rid of AA would lead to several benefits (the avoidance of all the negative effects of all 3 contentions my opponent conceded). To comply with my opponents requests (""...to negate it, my opponent would have to show that neither of these implementations of AA is what should happen, and something else should happen instead that cannot be classified as AA."") I've shown that abolition of AA should happen, and that it doesn't spark a different kind of AA, and that fixing it is an impossibility. To answer the third part, showing something else that should happen instead, I think a plan like the following should be implemented. On college admissions forms, remove the race box. That should be irrelevant. Next, keep names secret (not trying to be stereotypical, but some names have obvious ethnic backgrounds, especially last names) and have a college admissions board choose, truly unbiased, based only on accomplishments, and in no way on race. With that, I'll conclude my speech, and thus, this debate. Thanks to my opponent, beem0r, for the debate, and a thanks in advance to the judges."	CON	211
211	S1ec571b6-Ae948822c	Should We Keep The Electoral College	I do not think we should have this idiotic voting system known as the electoral college, the electoral college has been failing us, and their is no good reason for why we should keep it. My three reasons for opposing it is It is against democracy and it should be the peoples vote, 2, the point of it is failing, and finally, what is so bad about picking the president the people wanted My first reason, it is against democracy and it should be up to the people to decide. A country with democracy should have a voting system that is simple, who ever the people like most. For example, a YouTube, CGP gray, explained it well. He said later on in his video that there can be a scenario were a president could win with a candidate can get 21% of the popular vote is able to win the white house because of the electoral college, tho it is very unlikely, it is still bad when that can happen. He later there has been 3 times in American history were the candidate won the election but lost the popular vote, sure that is 5%, and 5% may not seem like a lot, but it is the president of the United States. If we just had the popular vote, then the citizens can pick their president, a way a democracy should work. My second reason is the point of the electoral college has been failing. The electoral college was supposed to give power to each state so that candidates will care about every state, well that is not the case. The electoral college only makes candidates care about swing states, for example, do you think Republican candidates care about what the people in Vermont think, and do Democratic candidates care about what the people in Arkansas think, no, because the electoral college makes them only care about swing states like Florida, Virginia, and Ohio. And this is proven later in his video when he talks about the number of visits candidates made to each state, and the number of money spent on campaigning in each state, the top 4 are Ohio, Florida, Pennsylvania, and Virginia. My final reason is, what is wrong with he popular vote? Their is no reason for being against it, doesn't for the candidates directly make more sense. Some people say it would give the people to much power, but this nation is of the people, for the people, by the people. And some people say that if we used the popular vote, then candidate will only campaign in big cities like New York, Chicago, and Los Angeles, first of all, arguing with that reasoning makes you a hypocrite because the electoral college does the same thing, except with swing state, and second of all, it won't make candidates only focus on bug cities. As CGP Gray also said in his video, if you combine the top 10 most populated cities in America, that is only 7%, and if you combine the 100 most populated, that is only 20%, a popular voting system will make candidate have to focus on every state and not just swing states So in conclusion, I believe we should Abolish the electoral college because one, it is against a peoples democracy, two, the point of it is failing, and three, the popular voting system will just simply be better. And that is why I believe we should Abolish the electoral college. The link to CGP Grays video-	CON	212
212	S54bdc9d5-A7260b598	College athletes should not be paid.	I will argue on the side that college athletes should not be paid, and my opponent will argue on the side that they should. Good luck.	PRO	213
213	S23e4ddc5-Aa21e6fd	The U.S. Federal Government Should Abolish the Department of Education	"First off, thank you to everyone for actually looking at this very interesting, though very long debate. :) I'd also like to sincerely apologize to my opponent for calling her a he, my mistake. Now, to the arguments. As this is my last speech, I shall be refuting the negative's points and presenting to you the main voting issues in this debate. These are the things that I shall prove to you by the end of today's debate. 1. The Department of Education is irresponsible and has harmed students. 2. The Department of Education has wasted its budget. 3. The Department of Education must be abolished. Now, my opponent says that having the Federal government choose the education for our children is a good thing. She said I did not offer evidence that Federal control over education was harmful. Well, I would like to mention my advantage in my first speech. There I did mention the horrendous effect that the Federal standards have had on our students. I will list some more evidence to prove my point. Common Core Harms Students Jane Robbins, a Senior Fellow with the American Principles Project and someone actively involved in the national fight to stop Common Core. http://www.nccivitas.org... ""Common Core is an attempt by private interests in Washington, DC, aided by the federal government, to standardize English language arts (ELA) and math education (and ultimately, education in other subjects as well) throughout the nation. By adopting Common Core, North Carolina has agreed to cede control over its ELA and math standards to entities outside the state. Not only does this scheme obliterate parental control over the education of their children, but it imposes mediocre standards based on questionable philosophies, constitutes a huge unfunded mandate on the state and on local districts, and requires sharing students"" personal data with the federal government. In ELA, the child will be exposed to significantly less classic literature "" the books and stories that instill a love of reading "" and significantly more nonfiction ""informational texts."" The idea is not to educate him as a full citizen, but to train him for a future static job. In math, the child won""t learn the standard algorithm (the normal computational model) for addition and subtraction until grade 4, for multiplication until grade 5, and for division until grade 6. Until then, the child will be taught what we used to call ""fuzzy math"" "" alternative offbeat ways to solve math problems. He probably won""t take algebra I until grade 9 (meaning he""s unlikely to reach calculus in high school, as expected by selective universities), and will be ""taught"" geometry according to an experimental method never used successfully in K-12 anywhere in the world. Even the Fordham Institute, which has been paid a lot of money by Common Core-financier the Gates Foundation to promote the standards, admitted that many states had better standards and others had standards at least as good. The Common Core website itself no longer claims that the standards are ""internationally benchmarked,"" and the Common Core Validation Committee was never given any information on international benchmarking. And one of the drafters of the math standards admitted in 2010 that when Common Core proponents talk about ""college-readiness,"" they""re aiming for a naive community college, not a four-year university."" Now, there is definitive proof that the standard offered by the Department of Education is harmful. Now, my opponent also said that some schools would make extremely poor choices concerning curriculum. But when education is federalized, there are programs like Common Core. When education is under local control, there are high performing homeschool groups, faith based private schools, charter schools, and school choice, and parents are taking an active role. In short, when education is localized, students win. The success of education should be rooted in free market economics. Allowing competition, demanding a better product, rewarding efficiencies and high performance are principles that work in the free market and will elevate education. Who knows what the students need more than their teachers? Allowing the Federal Government to provide the same standard for every child regardless of their individuality is a failing principle. Education is best when localized. Teachers and parents know best what each individual student needs. ""When the federal government controls the education of all of our children, they have the dangerous and illegitimate monopoly to control and influence the thought process of our citizens."" - Michael Badnarik Now, let's move on to the second point. 1.4 trillion dollars has been wasted. Now, I would like to correct my opponent's inference of my logical syllogism. P1: The Department of Education has spent 1.4 trillion dollars to attempt to reach its goal. P2: The Department of Education has not gotten a single bit closer to its goal since its inception. P3: The Department of Education has wasted 1.4 trillion dollars. Now, my opponent has gotten extremely technical and said that the Department of Education has not wasted every single of the 1.4 trillion dollars. And yes, maybe the Department has not wasted EXACTLY 1.4 trillion dollars. The point of the piece of evidence is, the Department has spent 1.4 trillion dollars over the course of its existence, and all this spending has not gotten us a single bit closer to its goal. So this money has been largely wasted. The harm is still significant. My opponent also mentioned that the states will need some sort of funding. I'm sorry if I forgot to mention this, but the Department of Education provides 10% of the funding to the states. The states will still have enough funding. And since this Department of Education funding has done essentially nothing to improve student achievement, we've discovered that throwing money at the problem isn't the answer. Federal control is. My opponent's second subpoint stated that the failure to meet a standard is not the department's fault. Now, I'm not saying that the problem is that schools have failed to meet the standard. I'm saying the standards are useless. The standards focus all the education on test-taking and leave little to no room for actual life applicable learning. ""You""re not going to be a scientist if you can""t read,"" a superintendent once told me in defense of a school""s pared-down curriculum. Well, you can""t be a scientist""one of the most common career goals of Tyler Heights"" graduating fifth-graders""if you never learn science either. You can""t be a lawyer if you never learn to think critically, you can""t be a computer programmer if you never learn to solve problems, you can""t be a professor if you never learn to research, and you can""t be an author if you don""t learn how to write."" - Linda Perlstein Now, the third point made by my opponent is that reform is an option. I apologize for my bluntness, but reform is not an option! This department has existed in stagnancy for 36 years with absolutely no visible effect on students. If we continue to reform useless agencies, we will get nowhere. Our country is 18 trillion dollars in debt. We aren't going to get out of this hole unless we begin to cut unnecessary, and in this case, harmful agencies from our spending. The time for reform is over. The Department of Education has had 36 years to prove to us why it should exist. And we're still waiting for an answer. About the inherent unconstitutionality of the Department of Education, my opponent had one simple answer. Who cares? We'll just change it. That is a dangerous view to hold! If we just add amendments whenever we see fit, we are headed down a slippery slope to our destruction. The fact is, the Founding Fathers had a vision for what our country should be. And any attempt to destroy that vision must be carefully thought out. The process for creating an amendment was purposefully made difficult by our founders. 38 out of 50 states must agree in order for an amendment to be created. This was to ensure that we wouldn't recklessly be rewriting the Constitution like we are in this case. Now, let's return to my three voting issues. 1. The Department of Education is irresponsible and has harmed students. I have proven to you that the Department of Education has initiated standards that provide a heavy emphasis on test taking and not enough of a focus on real life learning. And that they are blackmailing schools into adopting these standards, and refusing funding to those who do. 2. The Department of Education has wasted its budget. I proved to you in my first speech that the Department of Education has done nothing towards improving student achievement since its inception. And I would like to mention that my opponent has not challenged that point at all, and to do so in his next speech would be unfair to me as I could not refute. Yet, it has somehow spent 1.4 trillion dollars with no benefit. This money has been wasted and has done nothing to improve student achievement. 3. The Department of Education must be abolished. The Department of Education has been around for 36 years now. You think with 36 years, and 1.4 trillion dollars that we should see major improvement right? Wrong. The Department of Education has not moved toward accomplishing its goal in any way. Reforming it will not solve the problem, it must be removed. All these issues have one main point, the Department of Education has done nothing to make our students better adults. In fact, in many cases they have done the opposite. I must strongly urge that we abolish this useless, wasteful, agency. Thank you, and I wish my opponent the best of luck."	PRO	214
214	Sd0766dd3-A9142eb13	Electoral college	"In a nutshell When the electoral college (EC) and the national popular vote (NPV) produce the same outcome, EC is an unnecessary complication in the process. When outcomes differ, NPV's outcome is right and EC's outcome is wrong. Either way, you have a reason to choose NPV and none to choose EC. How to choose one system over another You are choosing between policies. This calls for a well-reasoned justification that follows from the purpose of having a policy in the first place. Ruthlessly filter each of our arguments through the question: ""does this persuade me that one policy fulfills its purpose better than the other policy?"" You will find that NPV is justified by an uncontroversial principle and a coherent, mathematically valid argument, whereas EC is an unnecessary political compromise justified only by points that are fallacious individually and do not form a coherent argument collectively. And there is no way to derive EC from a solid theoretical foundation without doing incredible mental gymnastics. The purpose of the election is to ... ... represent the will ... The purpose of any kind of election is to make a decision that represents the will of the voters. (To aggregate preferences, in more formal terms.) There is simply no other reason to have an election, except to deceive people by creating the illusion of democracy. The fairest, most obvious, and least arbitrary way to formalize ""the will of the voters"" is the criterion of majority rule: if over half the voters prefer option A over option B, then A should defeat B. Therefore, if NPV satisfies the criterion of majority rule when EC fails (over half of voters prefer A over B; NPV selects A over B; EC selects B over A), then you should choose NPV. ... of the citizens. The difference between EC and NPV is: EC: voter = person (""elector"") hired by state government to vote. NPV: voter = citizen. A system should count citizens, not hired electors, as voters. Citizens surrender their liberty to the government. In exchange, the government serves them. Why ask the citizens what they want, if not to legitimize the government's actions and to help it effectively fulfill its end of the social contract? On the other hand, there is no justification to represent the will of a few hundred state employees who were hired simply to vote. Pro might say ""EC represents the will of the states themselves."" If so, then why should states have electors proportional to their citizens? Because big states matter more than small states? Because issues are more important if they matter to more citizens? That is actually the intuitive idea that is formalized as majority rule. Therefore, by the same logic that justifies the design of EC, NPV is right and EC is wrong. When NPV and EC produce different results... In US history alone, it has happened 4 times, most recently in 2000 when Bush beat Gore. Simple example of how this can happen: States are X, Y, and Z; each state has 5 citizens and 1 elector; candidates are A and B. X: A A A A A Y: A A B B B Z: A A B B B In NPV, A wins 9-6. In EC, B wins 2-1 because Y and Z have their electors vote for B. Interestingly, political science textbooks use similar examples to illustrate gerrymandering. ... NPV's result is right and EC's result is wrong. This is self-explanatory. The right result is the one that represents the will of the citizens. There is no reason to think that throwing away hundreds of millions of citizens' data points, and electing the president based on a smaller data set that only vaguely resembles the citizens' data set, represents the will of the citizens more accurately. Gerrymandering is a form of political corruption in which politicians creatively assign citizens to districts to win absurd victories that wildly contradict the will of the citizens. It defeats the purpose of democracy to divide citizens into groups for no purpose other than to change the outcome. What makes the electoral college any different?"	CON	215
215	Sead6ade4-A7339caee	College fraternities are based on exclusion	"Nicholas Syrett. ""Schools Are Culpable."" The New York Times. May 6th, 2011: ""College fraternities are built on exclusion. For nearly 200 years fraternities have been exclusive organizations for men who want to spend time with others like themselves: usually straight white men. Men in these organizations have identified with what sets them apart from those they exclude, their manhood. Fraternal masculinity has, for at least 80 years, valorized athletics, alcohol abuse and sex with women, while disdaining intellectual inquiry for its own sake (colleges’ ostensible purpose)."""	PRO	216
216	S30a568aa-A33235b87	Public vs Private Education	Public education may be more affordable but it certainly does not give you the most opportunity. At a public school you become nothing but a number, you are not given the individual attention needed to strive and get the best education possible. Private schools cost money because its a good education. I truly understand if your financial situation does not allow you to be enrolled in a private school, but if you have the opportunity you need to take it. Coming from a person who has been educated in both systems, a private education gets you ready for whatever life has to throw at you. It is a key to success.	CON	217
217	S23e4ddc5-A4f625e31	The U.S. Federal Government Should Abolish the Department of Education	"Seemingly since the beginning of time, we have been set on a goal: Making the world a better place for future generations. Although we have improved in many respects, and we continue to grow, one thing that hasn""t been getting better for years is the education we are giving our children. The very foundation of which this generation is growing on is cracked. I would like now to present some evidence and key points for my case. First, I shall bring up the issue of Inherency, or the facts in the status quo, the Harms in the status quo, and the plan to fix the harms, and then the advantage. First let's look at inherency. INHERENCY: or what""s going on in the status quo. 1.)U.S scores haven""t gotten any better Megan Coleman, December 2013 (Megan grew up in Prairie Village, Kan. She is a graduate of the S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications at Syracuse University.) http://www.cnycentral.com... ""A global education survey released Tuesday shows when it comes to math, reading and science, teens in the U.S. rank 36th in the world. Students in Shanghai are rated the best. The results come from an assessment done last year. More than half a million students from 65 countries took a two hour test as part of the 2012 Program for International Student Assessment, or PISA. Students in East Asian countries performed the strongest with students in the Chinese city of Shanghai doing the best. Singapore came in second in math, followed by Hong Kong. The global exam, which was given to 15-year-olds around the world, is considered the worldwide benchmark for education ranking by country. The test measures standards in subjects like math, science and reading across Europe, North and South America, Australia, Asia and parts of the Middle East. This year, Tunisia in Africa also participated. U.S. performance was extremely low, doing average in reading and science and well below average in math. We failed to reach the top 20 in any of the subjects tested. America fell notably below the United Kingdom and well behind most of our Asian counterparts. Education Secretary Arne Duncan calls America's performance education stagnation. ""The brutal truth...that urgent reality...must serve as a wake up call against educational complacency and low expectations,"" Duncan said. ""The problem is not that our 15-year-olds are performing worse today than before...the problem, instead, is that they are simply not making progress. Yet, students in many other nations...are advancing, instead of standing still."" Basically, our students are at a stand still when it comes to educational development. While other countries are progressing, we are stuck in the rut of a failed education system. 2.) Unconstitutionality Jeffrey Duncan 2011 Jeffrey D. Duncan is an American politician who has been the United States Representative for South Carolina's 3rd congressional district since 2011. http://heritageaction.com... ""The Tenth Amendment to the United States Constitution states that ""the powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people."" Those who claim the Department of Education is Constitutional say that it promotes the general welfare of the United States. However, this ""General Welfare"" phrase appears in the preamble of the Constitution and does not grant or prohibit power to Congress. The preamble simply describes the Constitution and what the document itself was designed to do, and is not actually a binding decree of the Constitution. The Department of Education was founded using the preamble as the basis for its Constitutionality, but due to what""s stated above, it is clear that it is not in fact constitutional."" Should we really be endorsing and supporting the continuous destruction of our founding fathers vision for our future? HARMSA 1.) Department of Education is Irresponsible Ian Hatchett August 14, 2014 Ian Hatchett graduated from the Hillsdale College of Michigan and has been writing for breitbart.com for many years .http://www.breitbart.com... ""Gov. Bobby Jindal (R-LA) responded to allegations that he flip-flopped on Common Core, and described the federal government""s handling of Common Core as a ""hijacking"" of what was supposed to be a ""bottom-up approach"" on Wednesday""s ""Laura Ingraham Show."" Jindal said that he implemented standards in his state believing it would be a ""bottom-up approach,"" but that the federal government then did a ""bait and switch the federal government then came in after 2010, and said for example, ""if you want Race to the Top dollars you have to do Common Core standards, if you want No Child Left Behind waivers, you have to use Common Core standards."""" He described these actions as ""hijacking,"" and ""a bribe, blackmail, extortion."" Jindal also accused education officials in his state of giving ""no-bid contracts,"" under the law and selecting more expensive tests. He additionally railed against the Common Core standards, saying they were ""absolutely about dictating what happens in those classrooms."" And ""the federal government has no role in setting local curriculum and making those decisions."" He described Common Core math as making ""absolutely no sense."" ""A majority of teachers in Louisiana [are] saying they""re not ready for this, they don""t want this,"" he also reported."" Basically, The Department of Education is blackmailing the states into adopting the Federal standards for Education by refusing to offer Federal funds to States that do not adopt the Common Core standards and give over all control of their curriculum to the Federal Government. 2.)1.4 Trillion Dollars Wasted Andrew J. Coulson 2007 Andrew J. Coulson is the director of Cato""s Center for Educational Freedom. Previously, he was senior fellow in Education Policy at the Mackinac Center for Public Policy. He serves on the Advisory Council of the E.G. West Centre for Market Solutions in Education at the University of Newcastle, UK, and has contributed to books published by the Fraser Institute and the Hoover Institution. National Center for Education Statistics. Digest of Education Statistics 2007, Table 162 National Assessment of Educational Progress Long Term Trend Reports http://www2.ed.gov... ""According to the Department of Education Budget History, the Department of Education has spent $1,398,512,287,000 (One trillion, three hundred ninety-eight billion, five hundred twelve million, two hundred eighty-seven thousand) or roughly 1.4 trillion dollars, over its history. Spending by the Department of Education has skyrocketed with absolutely no effect on test scores. While spending at the federal level has increased at a frightening rate, ""student test scores in math, reading and science have remained flat or declined over the past four decades."" By every measure, it's been a horrific waste of money, which the United States simply can't tolerate in its current fiscal situation."" Now that we have established a firm understanding of the detrimental situation of our status quo, we would like to present to you our systematic plan to fix the harms and ultimately improve the education we are giving our children. PLAN Mandates: 1.)Abolish the United States Department of Education Over a period of one year we will slowly but effectively dissolve all administrative functions and dismiss all employees, which would ultimately come to the conclusion of having no more Department of Education. 2.)Federal loans shall be privatized, and the responsibility of Pell Grants shall be given to the Administration for Children and Families. All other responsibilities of the Department will return to the states. No funding needed. Agency and Enforcement will come from the executive office of the federal government. Affirmative plan takes place immediately after an Affirmative ballot and we reserve the right to clarify our plan as needed. And now let""s move on to our advantage, or how we solve our harms. ADVANTAGE Decentralize Education Peter Smagorinsky, Distinguished Research Professor of English Education at The University of Georgia. http://www.washingtonpost.com... I think that the students who entered school in 2000 and are graduating in 2012 will be the worst-educated cohort in the history of the United States, through no fault of their own, because they will have experienced all of their schooling under these ruinous programs that have reduced all learning to what can be measured on multiple choice tests. Imagine these young people now entering situations where they don""t get three or four reductive choices for each problem they encounter. Their education has studiously avoided complexity, thoughtfulness, reflection, engagement, stimulation, personal commitment, and everything else that makes an education worth having. The source of the poverty of their education will not be their teachers, who must teach this regime or face punishment; and it will not be themselves. Rather, the problem emerges from the policies created by those who mistaken test scores for learning and have turned tests into a vengeful machine for punishing teachers whose instruction lacks a commitment to multiple-choice tests as the epitome of a learning experience. Instead of having a highly centralized administration powered by money contributed by textbook publishers and other entrepreneurs cashing in on the lucrative enterprise of educational materials production, I would have a highly distributed approach in which most decision-making is local and relies on teachers."	PRO	218
218	S5d3f8690-A60227e3d	Curent high school education should not be mandatory	"I thank my opponent for his response as we near the end. I have noticed my opponent has placed his sources in the comments due to lack of characters. I'm not quite sure that is legal, but I suppose the audience can decide on that. I will move on to my refutations now. Refutations ""Even if it was possible that everyone benefits from high school then everyone would go to high school, even if it was not mandatory so there's no point of making it mandatory in the first place."" There are many teenagers who are lazy and would rather hang out with friends. We need to force them to go to school so they can benefit from it. They can learn new things and become educated members of society, rather than people who have very little knowledge about the world, government, economy, and society. ""The person might has job opportunities (ex: A rising actor/actress or musician that does not have time to pursue a high school education), wants to focus on other job skills not offered in high school, wants a simpler life, or finds school to be difficult."" Job opportunities? High school has extra classes such as drama or music. What about colleges such as Julliard that have been known to produce excellent musicians? What about Purchase College that was ranked top in the US for its acting and drama curriculum? You must go to high school in order to move onto college and if you want to be the best at something, you have to go to high school. Hence, more benefits come from high school instead of dropping out before. ""Maybe someone would rather be a janitor working an easy job than work in a stressful job that he or she hates. And even if everyone had a doctorate degree, someone would still have to be a janitor."" Seriously, who would prefer to be a janitor? It's a horrible, smelly job with low pay. I'm sure everyone wants to be employed at a higher level and make more money. It may be true that there still will be janitors, but don't you feel you accomplished something after passing high school and possibly college? You must have learned things from all those years that make you an educated member of society, unlike some other people. ""Then how do you explain how a song that says ""f*** your money"" is highly liked song with over 4 million views?"" How can you refute a point by using a song? The reason why it is consistently viewed is probably due to the opinion that it is a good song. My opponent has not refuted this argument substantially enough and so, if you graduate from high school, you will make more money. ""It's a big contrast that US high schools are far worse than US universities. One reason US universities are better is because they are optional."" How does that make any sense at all? You never clearly stated the reason why an option helps people perform better. Please clarify this argument. ""So what if middle schools are also weak as well? How does that invalidate my claim in anyway?"" Here is the reason why. Middle school is mandatory. PRO has stated that schools do better when they are optional. Those who don't want to go to high school drop out after middle school, but middle school provides poor education. They will be uneducated and need to learn more before they can live on their own and handle responsibilities with money and family. ""Only because these things infringe upon other people's freedoms or harms others. Again education does neither. A society that infringes upon many freedoms for unnecessary reason is a tyrant."" So this argument is no longer valid, seeing as you said education does not infringe upon freedom or harm others. So, school does not hurt people in any way. ""However forcing someone to do either one of these actions would be a serious infringement on one's rights, just like making school mandatory."" First off, you never stated any benefit of forcing someone to a horrible Justin Bieber concert and you never stated benefits for rape. There is no benefit. School has benefit, you must agree with me. You learn new things and you can live on your own with reasonable pay and a good job. Our forefathers wanted us to go to school and learn so our society wouldn't become ignorant. ""Over Six hours of having your speaking privileges revoked, doing stuff when you would rather be doing other stuff might be considered harmful to some."" Over six hours of peaceful learning and fun on the playground and seeing and making friends is not punishment. My opponent has already gone back on his point that privileges are revoked or infringed upon two refutations ago. ""However there though there are still jobs around. For example child actors, babysitters, caddies, lawn mowers, etc."" And have you not noticed there are very few child actors and kid caddies and babysitters don't make a lot of money nor lawn mowers as a kid? ""As one's age increases one can get higher paying jobs."" No, one cannot. If you look at someone's application and it says middle school graduate, would you ever be hired to become, say, a businessman? Never. ""I did list the various jobs one can receive without a high school diploma (ex: construction worker, driver, hair stylist, entertainer, chef)..."" If you want to become a top-notch chef, you go to special colleges. Hair stylists as well. Construction workers need high school diplomas [1]. Entertainers need to go to school if they want to make a living. Sure, taxi cab drivers don't need education except a driving education, but don't you see many people begging to be taxi drivers do you? Everyone wants to be successful in life. Those who can't focus get those jobs, not because they want to. You see taxi drivers waiting in long lines to pick people up, but no one wants a ride. ""Do you see an industry that profits off of selling non-fiction books? Yes."" Those are because of schools. Schools buy the books, get children interested, and then children take it on their own. School is very important for this reason. ""People are naturally curious and want to explore, so it would be natural for people to stumble across a field they enjoy."" Without school, children would never even have heard of certain subjects. High school broadens that expanse even more to other fields of knowledge that children enjoy. People only take interest after they've heard of something. Museums exist because children become interested in something, say space, after school. Math camps and science camps exist because children want to broaden their skills, or maybe their parents want them to. ""The less educated make up a smaller voting population."" There will be a larger, uneducated voting population when people decide to drop out of optional high school. Uneducated people (especially middle school children) would not know about subjects such as abortion, the military, social security, and gun rights. How would a middle school educated adult know who to vote for? ""Do you consider these personal experiences invalid sources?"" Well, yes, due to the fact that a personal experience can be changed just to suit the bill, so to speak, or to fit your argument. Arguments 1. High school has benefits. 2. Educated people come out of high school. 3. High school people move to college who help society with new technology. 4. Educated people can take over government unlike others. 5. Middle school education is not enough to help society and the world. I await my opponent's response. Source: 1. http://www.bls.gov..."	CON	219
219	Sb295af9a-Ad9c5abeb	The Electoral College Should Be Abandoned	"Thank you for the argument. But I'm going to go out on a limb and actually advocated the opposite. I'm going to argue each of my opponents points of interest and then I'll get to some of my own points of interest. 1. The small states cry ================ I have various arguments against this contention but let's start at the top of my opponents argument. He first says that there are enough people in the states of California, Illnois, New York, and Florida to decide a popular vote if we didn't have an electoral college. Not quite true actually. Let's consider that there are 300,000,000 people in the United States here are those states: California: 36,756,666 Illinois: 12,901,563 New York: 19,490,297 Florida: 18,328,340 Hmmm....... Let's round each up for fun. 37 million, 13 million, 20 million, 19 million. Do some addition..... 89 million! Now some division 89 / 300 = half of the popular vote? Not quite actually. So let's figure out how many states it would take to equal half of the popular vote. California: 36,756,666 Texas: 24,326,974 New York: 19,490,297 Florida: 18,328,340 Illinois: 12,901,563 Pennsylvania: 12,448,279 Ohio: 11,485,910 Michigan: 10,003,422 Georgia: 9,685,744 There we go 50.46% of the entire population right there. Source: http://en.wikipedia.org... On the other hand what would it take to win the electoral college considering there are 538 electorates total: California: 55 Texas: 34 New York: 31 Florida: 27 Illinois: 21 Pennsylvania: 21 Ohio: 20 Michigan: 17 Georgia: 15 North Carolina: 15 New Jersey: 15 Bringing us to a grand total of 271 electoral votes, or more than half. So let's consider.... It takes 9 states to win the popular vote and 11 states to win the electoral vote. Ah, it appears my opponent has won because under the electoral college two more states are really represented. Only not. The electoral vote only requires a candidate to win half of the popular vote in any given state. This would actually be possible to do, that's why politicians campaign very heavily in those 11 states and make make their advocacy to conform to those 11 states. On the other hand there is absolutely no way that a politician could win 100% percent of the popular vote in all 9 states. In fact it's doubtful a politician could even win 70% of the vote in each of those 9 states. In other words that politician is only going to win if he focuses on many states outside of those 9. In fact, under a popular vote even if we were to assume a candidate could really win something like 75% of the popular vote in each state (highly unlikely) that candidate would have to focus on 68% of the population. 68 x 75 = roughly half (51%). In other words the candidate would have to focus on the top 17 states at the every least. Though I'd postulate a candidate would have a tough time even doing that thus they'd have to focus on more states. Yet the electoral system makes it so a candidate only has to win 51% in each state and thus only really has to focus on those 11 states in order to win. Hmmmm..... Representation? NOT! So let's go into my opponents arguments a little more. He says, ""without the EC, what voice would people in Wyoming get in who should be president."" Considering that they don't have a voice now, and are not represented what-so-ever I'd argue that their citizens under a nationwide popular vote would have just as much say as every other citizen. And furthermore, that they would have a greater chance of being advocated too via candidates. ""The EC forces each presidential candidate to win over people in ALL States. If we were to have a nationwide popular vote, people living in smaller States would be ignored which could lead to disruption of our union."" Ummm... no? In fact that's the exact opposite of what is true. Next my opponent argues that abolishing the amendment wouldn't happen because the consitution requires a 3/4 vote to change and the smaller states wouldn't want to change it. 1. First I'd argue that they would want to change it because it's actually advantageous to them. 2. But more importantly this point just doesn't matter. The resolution asks whether we SHOULD change it. Not whether we COULD change it. Thus my only burden is to say that we should, whether we could has nothing to do with this topic. 2. The Individuals! Think about them! ========================= My opponent argues that people in smaller states are better off because their votes are suddenly worth more. Actually I'd argue that's not quite the case. Under the electoral college if one votes for a candidate in their state but that candidate is not the winner of the popular vote in that state then the person's vote counts for absolutely nothing.... Secondarily though I'd argue that a person in D.C having three times the power of vote than a person in California is just dead wrong. One should not be given 3x the vote simply because they were born in a different part of the country. We're basically saying that one persons say in how this country is run is less than others. 3. Minorities Lulz!!! ============== My opponent argues that the EC vote represents minorities more but I have a few major qualms with this idea. 1. Minorities are called minorities because they don't have a large population. This is problematic in the Electoral college because the lesser votes of a state simply go away and the entire state's electoral vote goes to whoever won the popular vote in that state. This means that minorities within states have extremely small chances of winning actual electoral votes by themselves and thereby their votes end up counting for nothing. 2. On the other hand in a popular vote system, whether a candidate wins the popular vote in a state or not those, the votes from minorities still carry through and can accumulate with similar minorities from other states to make a voting base. 3. Let's take the california example. Only some minorities in California will be represented because whoever loses doesn't get representation...... However in a popular vote system everyone would be represented and the state still has a massive population so I'd argue they get massive representation. 4. Based off of these conclusions one is more likely to focus on the minority voices in a popular election because they can accumulate and have more potential to matter. 4. Faithless Electorates =============== Guess what, under the electoral college electorates don't actually have to vote for who they've pledged to vote for. Furthermore this has actually happened at least twice in the past of the United States. Meaning that the vote just doesn't flat out matter. http://www.votesmart.org... Check out faithless electors. 5. Not what we wanted. ================ And of course sometimes the EC vote isn't what the popular vote would have been. Thus not what the people really wanted. Best example is probably 2000 where we elected Bush. And I think we all saw what he did. ^.^ Your turn."	PRO	220
220	Sb295af9a-A9ebfc4e7	The Electoral College Should Be Abandoned	"Definitely have a pretty complete understanding of the electoral college. Unfortunately my opponent doesn't even bother addressing my main argument in this debate. The win ====== In the United States, under the electoral college a presidential candidate can focus on the top eleven states by population. In these top eleven states the candidate only needs to get a majority of votes over his opponent. This could be 51% of the votes or less in that state. That's all. A presidential candidate literally only has to focus on the top 11 states by population and maybe a few more to make sure he/she is safe in order to win an election. On the other hand, in the United States, under a popular vote a presidential candidate would have to attain 51% of the vote in the country. Even with a great presidential candidate, say one that could win 75% of the voter population in each state, that candidate would still have to focus on the top 17 states by population. But 75% in a state is rare to say the least, the average presidential candidate would have to advocate to far more than the 17 states in the 75% scenario. So what does this mean in real world terms? It means that under the electoral college a presidential candidate only has to, and only tries to appease the needs of the top states by population. A president can literally just focus on those 11. Yet in a popular vote system a presidential candidate would literally have to focus on many more states than this in order even have a chance of winning. This means the presidential candidate would have to focus on a greater variety of people as a voting base and make policies that represent those people. The bottom line is that a popular vote system for president would support a greater number of people, represent more, and have a smaller chances of leaving people without a voice. All of this analysis is in my very first contention from my last speech labeled ""The small states cry"". Yet my opponent literally does not contradict any part of this analysis. Thus not only since the argument is really solid but also because my opponent doesn't touch it at all I think this is going to be the number one voting issue in today's debate. But for the sake of things I'll dispel these other theories also. Three part state ========== My opponent argues that an electoral college makes your vote 1.5 times more powerful. This is actually my point. Let's use his example of the North, the South, and the Central. Each of these have a population of 1 million people. A presidential candidate only has to win 500,001 or greater than his opponent in two of these three states. So let's imagine Presidential candidate anonymous. Anonymous in this election only has to win two of three states, and only 50% of their vote at that. Thus presidential candidate can literally just advocate to those two states while completely ignoring the needs of the third state. In fact the votes could be like this: North: 500,001 votes for Anonymous Central: 500,001 votes for Anonymous South: 0 votes for Anonymous Note: This is 1,000,001 votes out of a possible 3,000,000. and Anonymous would still win. He could literally ignore everyone in the South state and still win. This is how I attain all of my story about minorities being unrepresented. In this system the president can simply ignore the needs of entire swaths of the population. On the other hand in a direct election the presidential candidate would have to attempt to advocate to much larger swaths of the population in order to gain his victory. Especially since it would be nearly impossible to get even 66% in states North and Central (considering this model is anything like the U.S). Additionally though my opponents analysis on everyone have 1.5 times the amount of vote is just flat out nonsensical. Imagine we all have one vote now. Under my opponents advocacy now we all have 1.5 votes... but that doesn't actually do anything. We all still have the exact same amount of votes as everyone else. Wyoming ====== 1. Yes, my opponent is right their votes would become worth less. 2. However, Wyoming isn't represented under the EC currently. A presidential candidate is not going to make his advocacy conform to that which would be desirable for Wyoming in the status quo. 3. Yet under the popular vote system the presidential candidate would literally be forced to expand his base and advocate to a greater population. Which means under the popular vote system Wyoming would have a great chance of being represented. They Won't change now! =============== My opponent once again argues that whether or not the states would vote for a popular vote system as opposed to the current EC is somehow relevant to this debate. I would agree with my opponent if the resolution said, ""The Electoral College should be voted down by the states."" However the resolution states that, ""The Electoral College Should Be Abandoned"". Even if it's true that the states won't get rid of it that doesn't mean that it shouldn't be sacked. For instance I should not eat hot lava. The fact that I would never eat lava doesn't change the fact that I should not eat hot lava. In much the same way the fact that the states would not remove the EC doesn't change the fact that they still should. My opponent also argues that it hasn't been changed because it's unfair. That's not true, rather it's just not in the interest any single state. It's in the interest of the people as a whole(especially minorities), and I think I give a great deal of analysis as to why this is the case. Minorities ======= This is where I believe my opponent is just flat out losing this debate. He argues that a minorities chance of winning electoral votes right now is so very slim but under a popular vote it'll just be smaller. 1. I deny this logic for a number of reasons. The first is simply an extension of my past analysis where I argue that minorities don't have enough votes now but if you include similar minorities from multiple states their is a heightened chance of a combined base that presidential candidate might actually target. 2. Secondarily though simply extend all of my analysis on how presidential candidates under the EC now only have to advocate to the top 11 states by population and can literally ignore giant swaths of the country (including minorities). 3. But third. Even if a judge bought everything my opponent says on how minorities will be unrepresented in a popular vote then the judge would still buy my opponents analysis when he says that the EC already has a small chance of representing minorities. Thus not much of impact and I think we can only really go up. Faithless Electors =========== I realize there are laws in place to stop faithless electors but that hasn't stopped faithless electors from happening. In fact looks to my opponents case, he offers an example from 2000. Additionally, it's true, faithless electors have not thrown an election yet. However that doesn't mean they couldn't in the future. This is a potential harm with the EC that the popular vote would never have. Thus on this issue, the popular vote will always be inherently better. My opponents summary =============== David090 argues that the states have their own governments and should be allowed to govern themselves. This is true but my point still stands. Those smaller states don't get advocated too or supported by the presidential candidates. Thus those states in our society just aren't represented, especially from the presidential standpoint. Furthermore he argues that majority rule isn't the best approach in some cases. I'd argue that the current EC lets 11 states rule. And I'd say that's a sore shot worse than the popular rule we could have. At least a majority of our country would have a voice in the future of our country. With that I thank all, especially my opponent! Have fu"	PRO	221
221	S99e6abf2-Aec974de6	What to study in college & why? [Career Challenge]	"I thank my opponent for his response. Audience, let me reiterate that while my opponent's argument theme seems to be ""unfounded optimism"", my theme continues to be ""practicality"". The grim reality is that success is a product of preparation and opportunity. For every promotion you get, a dozen more people have been passed over. For every job you are hired for, dozens upon dozens have been turned away. Wanting and choosing to study in a field does not guarantee that you will get the job you are aiming for, or even get a job in the field you are studying. The more resources you pour into your study, the more likely it will be, but in the sense of practicality, you should consider fields that will not lead you to the disaster that is unemployment. Please examine the following link detailing the horrors that college-bound millennials face: http://www.theatlantic.com... ""At every education level, the 25- to 32-year-olds of 2013 confronted a higher unemployment rate than past generations did when they were stepping into the workforce"" And in case you weren't frightened enough, please take a look at these numbers in depth from an article written by a millennial: http://www.huffingtonpost.com... Note: 16.3% of Millennials are unemployed, only 6 in 10 have a job and half of those are only part time even though 59% of millennials have a college education. And here's the kicker, audience: ""250: The average number of resumes, according to ERE, that are received for each corporate job opening. Out of this number, 4-6 will get an interview, 1-3 will be invited for a final interview, and 1 will be offered the job. Which brings us back to that 16.3 unemployment rate. "" Audience, I don't want to scare you. I simply want to inform you that my opponent is optimistic to the point of delusion. Shooting for the moon and failing will not land you among the stars. It will set you on a trajectory to the infinite and desolate blackness of space. If you want to be true to yourself and succeed, you need to be PRACTICAL and REALISTIC about your job prospects. My opponent sells the same gimmick for every job. ""If you have a passion for this job, it is the best!"" This is a terrible argument. Half of the jobs my opponent suggests will not even be available to you until you go though hell and back, and they aren't even good jobs. The other half are hyper inflated with unrealistic optimism. My job recommendations on the other hand are not so fantastical. You will work hard, you will succeed, through your own skill. You will be paid fairly. You will take pride in your job, you will not find it hard to find employment, and you will find it difficult to lose your job. Please keep this in mind while comparing our approaches. *** Now, I shall address my opponent's defenses in light of the new discussion we have had about practicality. Special Education Teacher, Massage Therapist, Writer/Author: While being successful or lucky in these three fields *can* promise you what my opponent stated, the road to get there is extremely rough. For Special Ed teachers, the people this field is a fit for are so few and far between, it isn't even worth listing for general consideration. I will let the audience weigh the facts I have stated versus the idealism my opponent is a proponent of. Next, being a writer or an author is simply about gambling while you pursue a hobby. Your success or more likely, failure, is entirely dependent upon what your READERS want, not the quality of what you write or want to write. As for Massage Therapists, I simply don't have the heart to lie to you, audience, while my opponent does: ""May I remind you, one year of education will start you off making well over $50,000 annually!"" And yet, examine her own source: http://www.bls.gov... The median salary is only about $35k (far lower for entry-level) and requires a post-secondary education, along with licenses and certifications. I have nothing against optimism, but when they start contradicting facts and may negatively impact the rest of someone's life, I have no choice but to speak out. My opponent's counterpoint about Financial Managers is far, far too optimistic. The hard work is far harder, and much less worth it. You don't gain prestige and respect from coworkers, you get disdain, envy, and backstabbing. Using charts and graphs will not show how smart you are, it will only show that you don't deserve to get fired, and that hot secretary is already dating your boss's boss. I have already stated the facts in my last round: if you want to start in giant debt through a lot of schooling and work 5 years at another job before you can even START this one, please go ahead and try. I have nothing much to say about Police or detective work, and it seems my opponent does not either. The pay is horrific, the job is incredibly stressful and dangerous, and it can tear families apart. Your spouse and your children will worry about whether or not you come home alive every single day of their lives. And that one day you don't, do you really think that honor will matter to them more than losing their loved one? In terms of Aerospace Engineering, you really shouldn't choose it over the other types of Engineering. The growth rate is slow and the jobs are few. While my opponent is correct about Engineering being a secure field, Aerospace Engineering is an exception. Finally, for Medical Scientists, lets be perfectly honest. You aren't going to cure cancer or HIV. You will be the lab grunt of the team of the top level researcher of the giant pharmaceutical corporation that does. *** My opponent has two new additions: Actor: Consistently tops the charts for *worst* job year after year. http://www.careercast.com... You aren't going to be a movie star. At best, you'll do a commercial or be an extra. Industrial Designer: Slow job growth, few jobs nationwide, highly competitive, middle median pay, but low starting pay. Creativity stifled by your superiors. You will be doing grunt work the vast majority of your career. In these fields, just as with nearly all of my opponent's suggestions, you will fail due to competition and succeed only through luck. You need to consider fields in which you can succeed through your own skill and hard work. *** My opponent has conceded that I made good choices in Nurse Practitioner/related fields, Software Engineer, and Registered Nurse. I want to point out that in terms of passion, making a difference, creativity, and expertise, these jobs are far superior to any job my opponent has posted. Furthermore, I want to point out that Pharmacists do not simply ""hand out meds"". Pharmacists use a lot of clinical skills, nearly as much or more than Nurses do to provide care to patients, especially those who work in hospital settings. Pharmacists are slowly taking over the role doctors used to have. Note that it consistently ranks in the top professions year after year. The salary is fantastic, and you usually make $90-100k at ENTRY LEVEL. *** My opponent then levies a general attack on the 5 hands-on professions I listed, implying that they are unintelligent, lack creativity, and lacks room for passion, pride, or growth. Personally, I feel very insulted on behalf of all the hardworking individuals who are in these professions. My opponent seems to think that these ""blue collar"" jobs are beneath him. Do you know what millennials call the people working in these fields? They call them ""Mom"" and ""Dad"". These five professions are better by far than any that my opponent has listed in terms of job growth, job stability, and practicality. You take these skills for the rest of your life, and you start off without being saddled with 100k in college debt. You will be making 40-50k a year in high demand jobs while the people who pursue my opponent's jobs will likely be unemployed and in debt. These individuals take pride in their jobs. They are masters at their craft. Yes, they work with their hands, but is that reason to turn your nose up at them? In this economy, many are applying to technical school to find a way to survive. Many individuals in these professions then end up being managers or supervisors, or going back to night school since they aren't saddled with debt and have a stable profession. No one said you had to do this forever, but coming out of high-school, these are viable ways to jet propel yourself to success ahead of everyone else. *** Now, I have another bunch to list: Computer Systems Analyst Market Research Analyst Civil/Mechanical Engineer High pay, excellent job growth, job stability and in high demand, many opportunities for advancement. Physical Therapist/Occupational Therapist Physician's Assistant Dietitian/Nutritionist Dental Hygienist High pay, excellent job growth, job stability and in high demand, patient interaction, great for compassionate people who want to make a difference without breaking the bank. And since my opponent is such a proponent of jobs with specific niches: Survivalist- In case of global catastrophe, expertise in wilderness survival, basic agriculture and tool making. Is actually becoming very popular. Internet Web Camera Model- Makes from $20-$100 an hour, for those who aren't shy about their bodies, don't care about social taboo, and want quick, easy, cash. The right person can make a LOT of money to fund their dreams and passions Thank you to my opponent and the audience. http://money.usnews.com... http://www.wikihow.com... http://money.usnews.com... http://www.wikihow.com..."	PRO	222
222	Sac752d39-A5ad834f8	Parents/guardians should be in control of their child(ren)'s education, not the state.	I will defend my arguments, attack CON's points, then add a new argument. I. Given control, a state [Germany] abuses power. The persecution is relevant. I have shown you an example of a state that does not allow parental control of education, and how that state abuses that power. I will permit and continue the use of the PISA test as an accurate measure of a country's education system. You claim that because Germany's education system (homeschooling is illegal) is superior to the United State's education system (homeschooling is legal). However, homeschooling is legal in Singapore, Taiwan, Japan, Switzerland, Estonia, Finland, Canada, Poland, and Belgium [1], all of which scored higher on the PISA in 2013 than Germany [2]. II. Quality of Education CON attempts to counter the Home School Legal Defense Association's (HSLDA) web poll [3], which I have now more specifically cited, with a misrepresented statistic from the Coalition for Responsible Home Education (CRHE) [4]. In truth, HSLDA and CRHE do not contradict each other. The data provided by CRHE says that just over 60% surveyed included religion as 'an' important reason. Concern about school environment was selected as 'an' important reason more than 90% of the time. The point is, only 17% gave religion as their most important reason. This does not contradict my earlier point that less than half of homeschooling parents' main reason is religion. CON would have you reject my U.S. news source [5a], claiming I am taking the “testimony of one parent of home schooled children”. While the article in question does include several first-person testimonials, the facts I shared (that home schooled children receive better grades, transition to college better, etc.) came from studies [5b] [5c] cited by the article. These studies go on to show that home schooled undergraduates are more likely to be Pell scholars, have higher GPAs, have higher ACT composite scores, and bring more transferable credits than their standard educated counterparts [5b]. III. Social Interests should not be decided by one party CON claimed “the state, which in cases of educated nations is often democratic”. This is severely untrue. Going back to the top 15 countries with superior education systems (PISA, 2013) [2], their government types are highly varied: communist state, parliamentary republic, multi-party democracy, republic, communist state one man dictatorship, constitutional monarchy, hereditary constitutional monarchy, parliamentary government with a constitutional monarchy, confederation, federal parliamentary democracy under a constitutional monarchy, and Canada's democracy/federation/monarchy [7]. This fact also destroys CON's claim that the state is “fairer in education because more people have a say”. If you want people to truly have a say, let them decide if the state's education system or an alternative is best for their child. The problem of leaving the education of children to one single entity, is that any single entity is fallible. Uniformity of any kind leaves systems prey to shared vulnerability. No, parents don't count as 'single entities' in this explanation because a single parent could not educate a state's worth of children. A. “homeschooling is not in the best interest of the child” First I would like to attack CON's playful interpretation of certain statistics. Yes, 3% of K-12 aged children are currently home schooled in the US. Yes, only 1% of students out of 1000 colleges polled were home schooled. This does NOT mean that 2 out of 3 home school graduates do not continue their education. homeschooling has been growing at an alarming rate, nearly doubling in the last decade [5b]. This means that the statistic is probably closer to 1 out of 5 home school graduates not continuing their education at college, because at the time this 1% home schooled graduates were being home schooled, there were half (1.5%) as many home schooled students as there currently are (3%). B. “Parent Choice of Education is Harmful” CON claims that because a significant portion of parents who home school do so because of religious conviction, the state should not allow parent control of education. Where is this inherent link between religion and abuse that CON seems so afraid of? Not only is separation of Church and State a long fought for right, but religion is not some hideous monster that will either abuse children or turn them into bigots. On the note of child abuse, allowing parents the right to control their child's education in no way 'gives a thumbs up' to child abuse. The state still has the responsibility to discover and stop child abuse and neglect. C. “State Controlled Education works better” The United States is not the one and only example of homeschooling. CON cannot simply show that other countries beat the US at the PISA, therefor homeschooling is ineffective. CON goes on to say “The majority of students are not taught at home or alternatively schooled in those countries [that did better than the US at the PISA]”. I know of no developed country where the majority of students are home schooled. It seems the PISA data by country alone is not relevant at comparing homeschooling. CON again tries to rely on the 1% / 3% botched statistics, but as I showed earlier, the situation for home schoolers is not nearly as bad as CON believes. D*. “Skimming” While CON did not organize this as a separate argument, I found that “Meanwhile, private schooling and school choice also have a strong effect of cream-skimming, or discriminating against lower-opportunity students (8)” was inconsistent with argument “B” and needs to be labeled separately. The point I believe CON was heading towards is that allowing private schools increases elitism.Private schools are not the source of inequality. Eliminating private education, would simply remove a valuable service and not solve the problem of inequality. This debate has so far focused on homeschooling. I would like to remind all parties that the resolution is “Parents should be in control of their child's education”. This means being allowed to choose alternative education such as homeschooling, private school, and parochial school. While homeschooling is a hot topic, are you willing to say goodbye to private education too? This leads me to my new argument: variety. IV. Variety Having a variety of education systems available is best. Having the state's education system available is important, as many families default to public education. However, having only a public education system available is unacceptable in a world where great alternatives could be offered. CONCLUSION In conclusion, parents should be in control of their child's education because states are corruptible, states are fallible, alternative education systems provide quality, and alternative education systems provide variety. CON attempted to show that homeschooling is poor quality, that homeschooling parents are trying to indoctrinate their children in an abusive way, that the public education system is better, and that alternative education systems support elitism. I have rebutted CON's arguments, leaving you to agree with PRO. SOURCES 1. http://www.hslda.org... 2. http://www.theguardian.com... 3. http://www.hslda.org... 4. http://www.responsiblehomeschooling.org... 5a. http://www.usnews.com... 5b. http://i.bnet.com... 5c. http://files.eric.ed.gov... 6. http://www.responsiblehomeschooling.org... 7. https://www.cia.gov...	PRO	223
223	Sc9466f76-A774eb91a	Single Sex Education is Better than Co-Education	Challenge accepted. I would like to thank my opponent for starting such an interesting debate. Here are my points in favor of co-education- (1)Students at co-education schools learn to interact better with the people of opposite gender. (2)Co-education provides a platform for students of one gender to compete with those of the other gender. (3)Co-education helps in exchange of views and opinions between the students of opposite genders. (4)The level of understanding and learning by students depends upon efficiency of teacher and not on specialized methods. (5)Education doesn't mean only academic performance. Involvement of both boys and girls is necessary in many other activities of school life.	CON	224
224	Sfad66533-A91205d3e	No money for education	"I refuse to write an LD case, insofar as you set out the necessity in the round AFTER the parameters are to be outlined. The voters will agree that after two rounds it's futile to change case structure. You can VOID ALL OF HIS IMPACTS INSTANTLY. All of his impacts rest on two assumptions: 1: Public education equates to time-constrained education. (""I believe that opportunities for learning should not be confined to youth but should continue throughout life."") 2: Public education mandates learning only take place within the classroom. (""varieties of learning experience beyond the 'classroom.'"") So, two observations follow which disprove these assumptions: 1) School has ZERO jurisdiction outside of itself. Schools do not mandate what i do in my spare time (unless you count homework - but we'll address that in a second) and as a result they cannot affect what I learn outside of the classroom, or after my schooling. Because of that, the type of learning my opponent advocates is not infringed upon by public education. 2) The impacts he presents are not unique to my case. He simply says, ""schools have these problems..."" but does not substantiate how they would be solved by a switch to capitalistic education. Unless he asserts that these private schools would NOT assign homework, and would be so easy as to not require studying, you can drop him right there. Moreover, if this assertion does hold true then schools are pointless because you aren't actually learning anything, but you're still paying money - so there's a direct economic cost. He puts a double bind on himself. Next, you can cross-apply the first two observations of my last speech here. I won't copy and paste so you don't have to reread that, but here's the tagline (name) of them. It's important to note that HE DOES not refute this, nor does he FIX the problems outlined in these two observations, so they still hold water in the debate in nullifying his points. 1) There are no PRO impacts, only unwarranted claims. 2) The PRO offers no way to solve for those claims. Finally, a summary of my case. (Copied and pasted, don't read it if you understand my arguments already. Basically, he hasn't addressed these, so I'm bringing them up to reinforce that they are STILL important in the round, and as he's giving you unwarranted assertions you STILL look to my impacts.) These are all warranted an impacted, so I'll go through my contentions as follows: (C = Claim, I = Impact.) C1: Education is a fundamental human right. I: Depriving individuals of education deprives them of their human rights. C2: Federal funding is necessary to ensure all individuals are able to access their right to education. I: The PRO plan deprives individuals of education. (link to the impact of C1) C3: Curriculum based education provides the most stringent standards for student development. I: Implementing the PRO's plan will remove these standards, degrading the value of an education, and the evaporating much of the learning a student COULD have under publicly funded education. C4: Capitalist-based schooling exacerbates socioeconomic problems. I: The PRO's plan separates individuals arbitrarily and keeps minorities from achieving. The claim is almost the impact itself: Do you want to perpetuate a system where an arbitrary factor such as race will keep you from accessing your human rights? C5: Privately funded education will not benefit the economy."	CON	225
225	S73548fe7-A859b060a	colonization of the moon would fail and not be worth it to humanity	I still find moon colonization as over doing it for a single resource unless this thing will shoot so far into the technological future that it will cure aids cancer and make us immortal than not really worth it. 2. I also fail to see the evidence of India as a threat sure they have the weapons but they have no motive to use them and no one on the earth wants to pick a nuke fight with the winners of the cold war. As for China whoopdy dooo they have a smart computer I'll be concerned when it picks up a weapon and starts commanding armies until then its no concern. 3. My point stands that the moon's colonization would be more costly than profitable not just in resources but in human lives no matter what frontier it is people die wether it is Egypt taking the Sahara Rome in Germania and England the Pilgrims coming to America the Pioneers moving west many lives were lost in all of them and this is a new frontier its not building a new city in a far away land its not sailing across the ocean to a new place its leaving our planet for the first time to an unstable are lives will be lost many of them and Humanity dose not have the can do spirit as much anymore we took Earth we colonized every last bit of it with our blood sweet and tears and since Humanity put that flag in that one little piece of unclaimed land our want to explore and to die for knowledge. I don't think the moon a rock flouting around in space is worth the hundreds maybe even thousands of human lives lost in the process of taking it.	PRO	226
226	S1f23449c-Af6a07ffc	Improving Education Will do Nothing To Solve Economic Woes	I thank my opponent for this debate and look forward to an entertaining debate with pro, I wish the best of luck to both of us. In response to one, imagine one person with a dream of atoms, he is the only person in a thousand mile radius that wants to do this, would he not have an ambition to do this, and in turn meets others who feel the same way? Would the government not see the benefits of something like this? NASA can claim sole responsibility for the upgrade of the tools used on a daily basis. The power drill that runs without a power cord was made so astronauts could work on the space station without worrying about recharging the tool or getting tangled. The invention of one object created less jobs focused on the need for men and more on the quality of men. This is where education pushes, for higher quality and not quantity. As the education of a nation rises, the number of jobs will decrease as the sophistication of the jobs increase until an equilibrium is reached for that generation. Eventually there will be no need for jobs and in turn no need for businesses. In response to two, are you supposing that those students, be them in high school or college, where not the reason for either bust or boom? Who is responsible then? Can it be any one person? Suppose it is one person, then does the education of that one person dictate the gain made by a whole nation? Or, business relies on dice rolls, there is a reason that Brownian motion is best described by the stock market’s rise and fall. While some external factors can be identified it would be foolish to suppose the education of someone who has only the want of money is representative of the whole population. In response to three. Of course, that’s supposing that humans prefer bartering over learning, but you can’t adopt a system to gain without first observing what that person wants, or studying that person. Yes then, the want to gain came from the observation of having nothing.	CON	227
227	S95535bbc-A98c00ed9	The Electoral College is a logical system	First of all, Check your grammar and spelling because it is hard to take you seriously because multiple times I could not understand what your are trying to say. Second, The original group of voters was free male landowners and it had nothing to do with religion. Back then the majority of people living in the US were Christian because of groups such as pilgrims who fled to America to escape persecution. Also, Literally all of that was solved, At latest, In the sixties so I don't know what battle you are trying to fight. Third, The electoral college literally caused Abraham Lincoln to win the election and institute his plans to free all slaves in the United States. He received 39. 8% of the vote, Which if in a pure democracy would create a run-off between him and the next highest vote-getter, Who would have been the Northern democratic candidate Stephen A. Douglass, Who would have won the election instead. He would have gotten pretty much every vote from the southern democratic candidate John C. Breckenridge which would have created his total to be 48% of the vote alone, Not adding votes that may have come from the other candidate John Bell. Pause for one second, Can you please tell me how I hate Jews? You have no basis behind that and also I'm a republican. Unlike the common news media tends to tell the tale, Republicans support Israel, Which is a majority JEWISH country. Last, The whole point of a constitutional republic is to not have a king. That is why there are term limits. There will be no revolutions in the United States because of a representative system. If it was a pure democracy, Smaller states would not matter. 10 states make up half of the entire US population, So if there was not an electoral college system, The government officials would only care about the issues of high population states because they could still win by ignoring the majority of states. Another reason why the electoral college exists is to resist voter fraud, Because in the 1800's, People voted multiple times in order to attempt to swing elections. The electoral college would resist mass voter fraud for example in California, Where if 10% of voters voted twice, Then any state out of the 23 states with the lowest populations would essentially not matter. P. S. Personal Insults don't work in political discussions. Bring actual facts that prove something, Don't call people members of the National Socialist German Workers' Party or democrats from the 1800's. Also did you know that until 1996, In close elections, The south's electoral votes were majority democratic.	PRO	228
228	Se6a1eebb-Ad52190ae	Abolish the Electoral College	"I will try to rebut your arguments, but I have to be honest, I don't understand what you're saying in your first few paragraphs. It sounds like you're just repeating what I said. As for the ""majority rules"" thing. States side with the candidate who can bring the most positive change in their lives. This is generally different for different states (For example, North and South). Thus, the minority is small in most states, not 40% or 30% as Pro would have you believe. And when I said 12 people running for president, I mean 12 people in the final election, from 12 different political parties. I would appreciate if you read my argument more carefully. And yes, Americans are often forced to go with the lesser evil (Usally out of 2). But would you rather one of 12 or 13 parties win, and then have 90% of the population unhappy? Because it seems like that's what you're saying (No offense). ""A lot of Republicans hate Trump but will vote for him because they prefer Trump to a liberal. It doesn't mean they actually like Trump."" This is true, and upsetting. It's a problem. But what you're doing here is pointing out problems and not offering solutions. This debate is not over whether or not the electoral college is a good system, the debate is over whether or not it should be abolished. In order to prove that we should dismantle the electoral college should be dismantled, you have to point out problems, but also find a way to fix them. Otherwise, you're admitting that despite it's faults, the electoral college is the best system. I understand that this is not your intention, but still. Your ideas at the end do not count, because they are simply stated, and you don't go into depth about why they would fix anything, or why they would do more good than harm."	CON	229
229	Sc1b11a97-A61c4588c	Free Education	"Thank you for your response Pro Civic Pro is trivializing the importance of the ""American Constitution"". It's the United States Constitution, a unique document that just happens to be the foundation of the most successful and benevolent society in the history of mankind. Economic Taking advantage of ""free""ï¿½ education would not necessarily be a bad thing if it were truly free. Taking so-called ""free"" education for granted because it's ""free"" is the problem because a diploma should be a treasured document and not a common piece of paper. Fairness Seems to me Pro is throwing out an anti-parent and anti-nature net. Pro obviously believes in the supremacy of government over all. Con does not believe in cutting education, just modifying its source of revenue. As an example of the voracious appetite of the educational system, and government in general one only has to look at the history of the New York State lottery, the brainchild of those who thought it would be the answer to the funding needs of the aforementioned entities. Turn on any radio station or television station and you will be deluged with adds for this panacea of proficiency, always begging at the public trough for more money. As far as tax avoidance/ minimization by the rich maybe pro should do some research on the percentage of tax revenue generated by the top 10% of earners. Sounds like Pro would love to live in a ""WORKERS PARADISE""ï¿½. It is only a ninety-mile trip on the yacht of your choice to Cuba from Key West."	CON	230
230	Sb1cf8ab-A6dd9b489	Direct popular vote should replace the electoral college in U.S. presidential elections.	"Affirmative Case- November PF Topic Resolved: Direct Popular vote should replace the Electoral College for presidential elections. My partner and I affirm the resolution and offer 3 contentions finding direct popular vote to be the preferred method of presidential elections. Firstly, the electoral college distorts our democratic process. Second, the Electoral College is subject to the whims of the few rather than the many. Thirdly, the Electoral College forces candidates into battlefield states rather than to the nation. Contention One: The electoral college distorts our democratic process. Sub-point A:The electoral college creates an imbalance of voting power, contorting our elections. According to the American Enterprise Institute of Public Policy Research in December 22, 2002, quote ""A vote in Wyoming is worth approximately 4 times as much as a vote in California. The electoral college is directly responsible for this imbalance in vote value. Simply stated, the electoral college produces an unfair scenario in favor of small states in every election. The Inter-Parliamentary Union reported in 2006 that a quote ""free and fair election"" is an imperative condition that a democracy must have as a foundation. Subpoint B: Distortion in our political process must be solved, and the Direct Popular vote is our solution. In keeping with democratic traditions, it is necessary to pursue the most free and fair elections, where simply living in Wyoming cannot be a deciding factor. When a vote in Wyoming is approximately 4 times as valuable as a vote in California, something must be done to combat this. The answer is the direct popular vote. Direct Popular vote repairs this distortion by creating an even playing field and placing every vote value at the same value: One. Contention Two: The Electoral College is subject to the whims of the few, rather than the public as a whole. The Electoral votes are taken not by the people, but by a set number of electors. The people vote for their candidate to essential give the elector the desired candidate of the state. However, the problem therein lies that the electors can decide to go against popular opinion in favor of his candidate. These are called ""faithless electors"" as they can rule faithlessly against the people. Robert Bennett of the Northwestern School of Law wrote in December of 2006, that ""faithless electors"" control too much power, and can arbitrarily and dramatically change the outcomes of an election at a whim. Professor William G. Ross of Stamford University wrote in regards to the Bush and Gore election of 2000, quote ""in past elections, so-called ""faithless electors"" cast innocuously eccentric votes that provided a quaint reminder of one of the archaic curiosities of the presidential selection process"". In other words, faithless electors have defected against the will of the people to serve their own interests. Subpoint A: The Direct Popular Vote fixes this dilemna. The direct popular vote removes the possibility of faithless electors to dramatically change the outcome of a presidential election. Professor James P. Pfiffner of George Mason University penned that the direct popular vote would solve this rare problem by placing the power of the election back into the hands of the people for which it was intended, rather than keeping it in the hands of the few. Contention Three: The Electoral College forces candidates to ignore the majority of states and focus on a few closely contested battleground states, instead of the nation. The Electoral College is not a fair system by any means. It places far too much emphasis on individual states and their interests rather than the interests of the nation. In an article written by Taren Kauffman for the Duke Chronicle on December 1st, 2000, quote ""Under the Electoral College system, candidates ignore states that are ""safe"" for either candidate. For example, I am from Indiana, which has a hefty 12 electoral votes, but is heavily Republican. Both Texas Gov. George W. Bush and Vice President Al Gore ignored Indiana. If the president were selected by direct popular vote, the candidates would have had incentive to campaign in Indiana, because they could swayed the undecided voters who, under the Electoral College system, did not matter."" The direct popular vote would fix this discrepancy by making voting power equal across the nation and allowing candidates to address the nation, not just a few states. In conclusion, because the Electoral College distorts democratic processes, and because the electoral college is subject to the whims of the few rather than the people, and because the Electoral College forces candidates to small states rather than the nation, and because the Direct popular vote fixes all 3 problems; I urge an affirmative ballot."	PRO	231
231	S5e977bfe-Adec5e6d1	Public Education is Better for Society than Private Education	"Thank you for accepting this debate. Public education has four important benefits. It can increase a nation""s output of skilled workers. It makes education accessible to everyone. The cost of private schools are enormous, with the cost on par with the cost of universities. The average private school tuition in US for a non-sectarian elementary school is $15 945, and $27 302 a year for secondary school. America""s median income is $51 017. Even in wealthier countries, there would be many people who cannot afford education without widespread public schools. The presence of public education also empowers the government to make education mandatory. Public schools generally offer a better quality of education. Public institutions generally have more funding than private schools. Most private schools must invite retired/rejected teachers to teach at their schools because the pay/benefits they receive are much less than teachers of public schools. The average pay for private school teachers is $36 000, while the average pay for public schools is $50 000 (not including various kinds of welfare). It is difficult for investors to invest in private education, as it isn""t a very profitable business. Most prestigious universities, who invest large amounts of resources in their students, rely mostly on donations. Jim Rogers, in one of his books, noted that many universities are now in debt. Public education increase equality. It brings together students from all social classes. America""s top private schools can cost 1 million dollars per family (for all four years), while some cost $16 000 (again for all four years). Private education has the potential to promote different social classes. Public schools also provide a common standard of education, which provides a more level playing field for all students. For this reason, universities make adjustments to the raw score if the applicant is from a private school. Private schools generally give students higher grades than public schools, and their marking schemes are generally not consistent with each other. I look forward to hearing your arguments. http://money.cnn.com... http://theweek.com... http://www.theatlantic.com... http://www.marketwatch.com..."	PRO	232
232	Sbd70c81e-Ae5f77cf5	We should follow the example of Finland's education system.	Following your own logic, where is your argument to justify why you're against it? You have only stated your position. Now that I have stated my thesis, I will develop my argument. Finland has been at the very top of Pisa test results since 2000, whether it be in maths, science or reading. The US hasn't been faring so well: in 2012, it scored below OECD average in every test (1). You would think that as a world leading economy, their position would be slightly better. Indeed, it seems to give itself the means to do much better, being one of the countries that spend the most on its students: $10,559 per student while Finland spends $7,000 per student (2), but even then, we keep observing average results. 1. PISA results in 2012 2. Education spending per pupil in 2012 Not only are Finland's results much better academically, but Newsweek has also ranked Finland as one of the best countries to live in, taking into account factors such as education, health, quality of life, economic dynamism and political environment (3). This shows that Finnish students have a good quality of life. The US doesn’t appear in the top 10. Furthermore, their education system has efficient results in economic terms. While the Finnish PPP GDP per capita is inferior to that of the States ($35,617 against $53,101) (4), there is another dimension I would like to include to demonstrate my point: that of income inequalities. The Gini index is used to measure wealth inequalities, 0 being zero inequality and 100 being total inequality. Now, in 2009, according to this graphic, the US had higher levels of income inequality (around 46-47) while Finland has one of the lowest levels of inequality in the world (around 25) (5). What does this mean? This means that although the GDP per capita is inferior in Finland, far more people actually have that actual level of income, while in the US, you will actually find that the richest 10% of Americans detain about half of the total income and the richest 1% a quarter of the total income. 5. Gini coefficient in 2009 in the world Thus my argument is that the Finnish education system prepares people for a healthy working life, thanks to investment into the right areas of education, and focuses on diminishing inequalities of chances. In the 1960’s, Finland re-evaluated the need to invest in its education system. All governments, from left to right have respected, over the past 4 decades, that economic growth is the primary goal, with education as the critical driver (according to some researchers, education explains 25% of Finland’s growth): “Investment in people is the best investment” (6). They have made their way towards an entirely free education, from meals to textbooks and tuition, therefore making sure that every student, from whichever background, has access to a similar education. Finally, teacher training has been put at the centre of all attention. Teachers need to have a Master’s Degree to even consider being a teacher. But that’s not all. Only 10% of the 5000 applicants each year are accepted to the faculties of education in Finnish universities (6). Why is there such competition? Because there is competition. Teachers are respected because they are not only civil servants, they are like the elders of the village, the people you go to for their wisdom. They know what they’re doing. Furthermore, this means that they can be trusted by the government. The government issues a core curriculum for the teachers to follow, but it is very small and gives these very competent teachers the freedom to make their classes as interesting as can be. Those are some of the reasons that lead me to think that the Finnish example is worth trying to follow. They are doing something right. 1. PISA results in 2012: http://www.businessinsider.com... 2. Education spending per pupil in 2012: http://www.businessinsider.com... 3. Top 10 best countries according to Newsweek: http://news.xinhuanet.com... 4. PPP GDP per capita in Finland and the US: http://en.wikipedia.org...(PPP)_per_capita 5. Income inequalities in Finland and the US: http://tifwe.org...; 6. Education is the critical driver of economic growth: http://siteresources.worldbank.org... 7. Rate of teacher acceptancy: http://bertmaes.wordpress.com...	PRO	233
233	Sc9466f76-A8c6b789c	Single Sex Education is Better than Co-Education	"Thanks againt to my opponent. I would like to counter his counter refutations and then re-inforce my own points once more. Please do not counter counter counter refute. It gets a bit silly then ;). Fifth round will be short, concluding words with key refutations and summing up the argument. Counter counter-refutations 1. Students need [to] interact with the people of other gender, but now-a-days it is very necessary to learn that at a very early stage. First of all, my opponent did not provide a source so we can count this as speculative. Second of all, I harken back to your quote of the woman who felt out of place briefly at college. There is no, I repeat no evidence that single-sex schools have done damage to people after their first awkward period of college. I'm sure this woman lives a healthy life interacting with students of both genders. 2. My point was not that children should be told that they are worse than boys, but they must realise that there are some students who are better than them at some subjects and they need to [improve] themselves to survive in the competition. This very indirectly counter refutes my refutation. It is pretty irrelevant. What I am saying is, by having a football team that only boys join, and a cheerleading team that only girls join, we are perpetuating gender stereotypes. Computer classes that are not required are mostly boys, and home ed classes are mostly girls. Using single-sex schools, we can teach students that it doesn't matter if computer is a ""boy"" subject. They can do this class free of ridicule. 3. No teacher can provide students what they would have gotten by interacting and discussing with one another. There is no source cited to this, so we can assume it is just an opinion. According to the NASSPE (National Association of Single-Sex Public Education), single-sex teachers are very trained in targeting gender nuances and expressing ideas to students of all one gender. 4. Every student has a different learning style and capability irrespective of his/her gender. There are many ways each gender differs. Go to a seven year old boy and a seven year old girl and ask this question: ""How long can you stand still and be quiet"" and you will find very different answers. They are built into our brains. Teachers that teach at single sex schools are very trained in teaching to these different genders. Why do you think they segregate schools in to different grades? Second grade is for seven year olds and fourth grade is for nine year olds, because there are significant differences in the way that they learn, and what they have learned so far. It is the same for girls and boys. Girls respond to calmness in a teacher and sounds, while boys respond to visual cues and funny and loud teachers. A girl might be intimidated by a singlesex boys teacher and a boy might be bored by a single-sex girls teacher. Source is the NASSPE 5. Cheerleading is a very popular sport and many girls are interested in cheerleading. This is because girls can't play on the football team and boys can't cheerlead. From a young age at co-ed schools we are taught that football is for boys and cheerleading is for girls. Girls don't cheerlead because it is fun. I mean, they do, but the underlying reason is that they are taught that they don't play football. Points 1. Students and single-sex schools perform better than those at co-ed schools. Especially with the amount of flunking students at high schools nowadays, we cannot leave any stone unturned. Any method thatcan up grades significantly needs to be implemented. 2. Males and females have different learning styles which must be treated differently. By treating aforementioned differences we can raise learning efficiency. 3. Single-sex education promotes gender equality. I find myself coming back to the football cheerleading example again and again. We can teachs students that they can be whoever they want to be without fear of being judged, or without being told that ""they can't join the football team"". 4. Students have a life outside of class. Single-sex students are not locked inside their school. Along with extra-cirricular events, inter school events occur and let students interact. Your move."	PRO	234
234	Sb6d2bbc8-Ae4f77dbd	The Electoral College Should Be Abolished	"The EC should be abolished for two main reasons. The first reason is that it is outdated and obsolete. Back when the Electoral College was created, it was difficult for the average person to learn about politics. Candidates could not possibly travel around the country speaking to everyone and there were very few other ways to learn about a candidate. Because of this, most people were uneducated about politics and could not be relied upon to give an educated vote. The Electoral College was created so that the people voting for president would be educated. Today, on the other hand, things are different. It is not difficult for someone to learn what a candidate stands for or what his or her views are. Anyone with a TV, computer, radio, or smartphone can know what each candidate advocates. This means that there is no longer any need for an Electoral College. The next reason that the EC should be abolished is that is an inaccurate measure of the nation""s votes. For example, in the 2000 election, Bush won Florida""s 25 electoral votes by only 900 popular votes. That means that the 2,912,253 people that voted for Gore had no effect on who was president because all of their states votes went to Bush. [1] This is a bad system because even though 48.84% of voters in Florida voted for Gore and 48.85% voted for Bush, 100% of Florida""s electoral votes went to Bush. In a popular election without the EC there would be far less of this. The same situation with a popular election would have given Bush 48.85% of Florida""s votes and Gore 48.84%. This is much more fair and the way it should be. Vote Pro! 1. https://en.wikipedia.org..."	PRO	235
235	Sac752d39-A4164f853	Parents/guardians should be in control of their child(ren)'s education, not the state.	"Guess what!? I'm not going to argue religious freedom. You've probably heard that argument tons of times already and if you haven't bought it by now I probably can't change your mind over the Internet. Instead I argue that the status quo includes persecution, that non-state regulated education systems output independent young adults, and lastly that societal interests should not be decided by a single entity. Before I get into my three main arguments, it is necessary to be very clear what this resolution means. I have been misunderstood before with this resolution. ""Control their child(ren)'s education"" does NOT mean all parents/guardians would be mandated to design or even implement a curriculum. In this context, ""control"" means 'in charge of deciding where their children go to school, including the options of alternative education and home schooling'. In fact, in the United States of America, parents and guardians ARE in control of their child(ren)'s education. Not all countries give parents the right to decide their child's education. PRO is arguing that countries that restrict a parent's control of their child's education should cease. A common gut reaction against this argument might be: 'but parents don't own their children'. True! And neither does the state. I. Status Quo Includes Persecution [1] The Romeike family has been in the news as of late through a variety of mediums: television, video hosting, news bulletins, etc. I chose to use the Home School Legal Defense Association's website [1] to fact check. Germany does not permit home schooling. All children, ages 5-18 must attend a standardized school, [1] exceptions do exist but they are infrequent. The Romeike family tried to teach their children at home, only to have the state enter their home and physically remove their children to take them to school. The Romeike family claimed refugee status in the United States of America due to persecution in Germany and are currently home schooling their children in Tennessee. While the US currently permits home schooling, many states hamper or even find ways of prohibiting it. In my next section I'll show the benefit US children have received from home schooling. II. Quality of Education [2] Why do families home school? Believe it or not, less than half (of a web poll of 989 home school parents) gave 'religious conviction' as the reason they home school. Top reasons for home schooling are 'positive social environment', 'academic excellence', and 'specific needs of child'. [1] Contrary to stereotypes, home schooled teenagers are often more socialized and more independent than their standard education counterparts. College Students that were home schooled receive better grades and make the transition to college life more smoothly. [2] III. Societal Interests should not be decided by one party It is clear that home schooling is most often a high quality experience "" so why does the Home School Legal Defense Association need to fight so hard to protect it? That is because the state views the purpose of education as creating productive members of society. Is it right that a single entity, a state, should hold the power to shape the values and critical thinking skills of the future workers and decision makers? What happened to the value of individualism? What happened to the freedom of thought? It is vital that a variety of thinkers contribute to the values and innovations of the future, not a cookie cutter workforce, each of which was dragged through a standardized system of education. If cookie cutter job fillers are what makes a productive society, perhaps we should rethink our values, or at the very least, all the people to decide our values "" not the state. ""Power corrupts, and absolute power corrupts absolutely"" SOURCES 1. http://www.hslda.org... 2. http://www.usnews.com..."	PRO	236
236	S54bdc9d5-A75c94e	College athletes should not be paid.	"I'd like to thank my opponents for a good case. My opponent claims ""we would be putting too much of a value on sports rather than academics"". I respond by stating that these athletics prevent a specific student from getting a job. An athlete will be unable to get a job at a local company like the average student because of time conflicts, thus this extra ""value"" is actually necessary in order for these students to make ends meet. I don't really understand what my opponent is trying to say in point B where he talks about ""bringing in money"" I request that he clarify this in the next round. My opponent questions the fairness of one sport receiving more money than other sports. He then claims that ""all sports are equal."" I respond with some statistics on the average yearly salary of professional sports players. NBA: $5.2 Million MLB: $2.5 Million NFL: $1.75 Million NHL: $1.3 Million source: http://www.statisticbrain.com... The claim that ""all sports are equal"" is not true because certain sports draw more audience then other sports, because less people would want to watch hockey then basketball. Thus not all sports are equal and we cannot treat them as such. My opponent claims that high school sports would have to be ""entitled to a cut of the money"" however I go back to my point about how due to time conflicts athletes wouldn't be able to make money. In the NCAA most regular students are able to get jobs, and thus the athletes are at a disadvantage and need the extra pay. The athletes are not at this disadvantage in high school because high school students don't all have jobs, thus the athletes aren't at a disadvantage in highschool in terms of funds. My opponent claims that they are already being paid in scholarship money, and claims the scholarship money is 27000$ however I question the validity of these statistics. The statistics never actually state the $27000 scholarship number. They state ""$27,000 less in college loan debt than the average student"" yet they say nothing about $27000 in scholarship money. The writer of this article also says nothing about where he got these statistics, and doesn't state any study or sources to these statistics. Unless my opponent can come up with different sources to state this information then we cannot trust these statistics. I instead site a few different statistics from Mark Kantrowitz of Finaid.org ""approximately 1% to 2% of undergraduate students in Bachelor""s degree programs receive athletic scholarships."" Thus the claim that ""they are already being paid in scholarship money"" is not true. Source: http://www.fastweb.com... My opponent claims that most colleges do not have the money to pay for their athletes, however he sites no sources and presents no evidence of these statistics. Thus we can not see this argument as an actual point in favor of pro's side. Now that I have refuted my opponents case I will present my own. One of the main sources of revenue for colleges is athletics, and athletics would be nothing without the players. These players do everything for the college, they play the game and do everything for the athletic program. They deserve compensation for what they do. The college sports industry makes upwards of 11 billion dollars in total revenue from television sponsors, ticket sales and broadcasting rights. The athletes are what make up this revenue. Without them the revenue wouldn't exist, they deserve compensation for what they do. Source: http://24allnews.com... Marc Edelman of usnews.com states that the lack of pay to student athletes is actually illegal. He states quote ""Not only are the NCAA rules that prevent colleges from paying student-athletes immoral, but they also are likely illegal. Section 1 of the Sherman Antitrust Act, in pertinent part, states that ""every contract, combination "" or conspiracy, in restraint of trade or commerce "" is declared to be illegal."" Applying this language, any agreement among NCAA members to prohibit the pay of student-athletes represents a form of wage fixing that likely violates antitrust law. In addition, the NCAA's no-pay rules seem to constitute an illegal boycott of any college that would otherwise seek to pay its student-athletes."" Because of this the lack of pay to the student athletes is illegal and should be abolished. Source: http://www.usnews.com... Because I have refuted all of my opponents arguments, because students deserve to be compensated and because the lack of pay on student athletes is illegal I strongly urge a vote for con."	CON	237
237	Sfad66533-A7cac178	No money for education	"Our government is routinely bribed by lobbyists for special interests. You may have heard of them. In the 2004 elections, the American Federation of Teachers was the third largest with $12,789,296; the National Education Association was eighth with $10,521,538. American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees was ninth with $9,882,022. They use this money to bribe Congress to enact laws which allow them to make more money. Education is a big scam that costs about fifteen hundred bucks per year for every man, woman and child in America. Eighteen thousand dollars for a high school degree. My proposal is to let the people keep this money and spend it on their own education. This would actually be pretty good for the economy I would think. Libraries, home schooling, university ""open courseware,"" ""distance learning,"" debating societies. There is a wealth of open courseware here. I could expand on it but that would deprive my opponent of the experience of learning for oneself. Give it a few minutes. http://www.google.com...= If the Aussies can do it anybody can. http://www.highbeam.com... One argument for asynchronous (typically web-based) delivery as opposed to synchronous (real-time video) delivery of distance learning courseware is that the goal of distance learning in the future should not be to deliver a vicarious classroom lecture experience using remote technology, but instead should be to use an array of knowledge media to fashion interactive individualized learning environments for remote users. That's from http://www.westga.edu... Don Beagle University of North Carolina at Charlotte Donald Beagle is Associate Director of Library Services and Head of the Information Commons at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte. UNCC's new Information Commons includes send-and-receive distance learning facilities for the North Carolina Information Highway and the North Carolina Research and Education Network. He also wrote The Information Commons Handbook, Donald Robert Beagle. NY: Neal-Schuman Publishers, Inc., 2006 He sounds like a pretty smart guy. Here's an article by him: Donald Beagle. ""Conceptualizing an Information Commons"", Journal of Academic Librarianship, vol. 25, no. 2, March, 1999, p. 88 Have to look it up yourself. The cost of an education is rising alarmingly. State legislatures are balking at financing colleges because Big Business is so eager to help out. This is a big mistake as my opponent has pointed out. http://debate.uvm.edu... I thank my opponent for making my arguments for me. Just reverse PRO and CON and adapt arguments about federal vs private funding since the debate is about NO funding. I'm pretty sure I made that clear. C1: Education is a fundamental human right. I: Depriving individuals of education deprives them of their human rights. Our educational system does just that. C2: Federal funding is necessary to ensure all individuals are able to access their right to education. This one may need a little work I: The PRO plan deprives individuals of education. That's not an education; it is the illusion of an education. Now you have to do it yourself. Here's fifteen humdred bucks. C3: Curriculum based education provides the most stringent standards for student development. I: Implementing the PRO's plan will remove these standards, degrading the value of an education, and the evaporating much of the learning a student COULD have under publicly funded education. I have already argued that those standards do not work. C4: Capitalist-based schooling exacerbates socioeconomic problems. Thank you for arguing my side. I: The PRO's plan separates individuals arbitrarily and keeps minorities from achieving. The claim is almost the impact itself: Do you want to perpetuate a system where an arbitrary factor such as race will keep you from accessing your human rights? You mean like the educational system? C5: Privately funded education will not benefit the economy. I: A diminished economy harms all 310 million Americans, hurts our global competitiveness and on the whole is very, very, very, bad. :) I fail to see how giving someone fifteen hundred bucks hurts them. Observation Four: Summary of the Previous Three: 1) There are no PRO impacts, only unwarranted claims. What's an impact? In each rebuttal, the speaker must defend his/her own case from previous attacks made by the opponent, and attack the opponent's case itself. An argument left untouched by the opponent does not necessarily mean that the debater has agreed with that point. However, a failure to touch upon all points may be important, to the degree that ""dropped"" points cannot be defended later in the debate. But there is no clear definition of what goes in each round, as there is in oral debating. And oral debating's a whole lot different. http://udbmas.newsvine.com... 2) The PRO offers no way to solve for those claims. That is not the intent of a debate. See the rules. Judges must remember that debaters are not required to propose 'plans' for dealing with given situations."	PRO	238
238	S6097348b-Aa020b44c	Is nature worth more attention than technology	"First, so I want to reiterate the proposition debated: is nature worth more attention than technology. While the burden of proof is fully Pro’s, I will emphasize my position by state [technology is worth more attention than nature] The Burden of Proof is Pro’s alone. This is Pro’s first debate, and I am relatively new too, but let me state the obligations for each party in the debate. Pro’s obligation: Since pro is defending the proposition, nature is worth more attention than technology, it is up to Pro to provide reasons and evidence for it. Con’s obligation: Since Con is on the “opposing side” Con only has “to disprove the evidence presented or explain why it may not be adequate.”[1] Rebuttals Rebuttal to (1) First, I am not quoting “famous people” but rather experts or universally respected academics. Quoting Stephen Hawking or Paul Krugman is not the equivalent of quoting Scarlett Johansson or Daniel Radcliff (unless it is an argument related to acting). “Standing behind your own words” is fine, but just because I claim and have opinions about which variation of String Theory is the most accurate or have opinions about the validity of a multiverse, this does not mean I am not obliged to provide evidence or support for those claims. John Nash, the Nobel-prize winning economist who developed game theory models and helped develop differential geometry, was a genius but he also suffered from schizophrenia. He could demonstrate the accuracy of his mathematical formulas but could not demonstrate the aliens and other non-existent people he thought he was in frequent communication with. The reason: because his mathematical postulates could be proven by way of logical reasoning and providing evidence by way of mathematical models. People however did not find other claim true, valid, or worth entertaining not because Nash “didn’t stand by his own words” but because, they had no basis in reality, and they were not supported by evidence or logic. A quick detour into the difference between opinion and argumentation: Opinion and argument are very different. Arguments and debate require claims, reasons, evidence, and refutation of warrants. This is the structure for every academic field. But let me quote famous acknowledge experts, who set the standard for research/argumentation in the humanities.[2] So to be clear any form of argument is going to answer: § What is your claim? § What reasons support it? § What evidence supports those reasons? § How do you respond to objections and alternative views? § How are your reasons relevant to your claim? Rebuttal to (3) Third Pro states: “I am not saying that we should abandon all of technology and go back to stone age. I'm just making a point that people should consider to what point is technology taking us.” Okay, so first this veers away from the proposition, again just to reiterate, Pro is arguing nature is worth more attention than technology. While my opponent has as of yet failed to provide a clear definition, and therefore Pro should provide “concept clarification”[3] for voters to discern or expose the underlying meaning of nature. However, since I convinced technology is as well as ought to be given more attention than nature, let me provide a modest definition and explanation of what technology is. What technology is and is not (based on definitions purposed and accepted by etymologists, linguists, sociologists, and philosophers, historians) The etymology of the word technology is of Greek origins and refers to the “collection of tools including machinery, machinery, modifications, arrangements and procedures used by humans.”[4] Its contemporary usage in the United States is often attributed to Read Bain, the renowned American sociologist. Bain wrote, “technology includes all tools, machines, utensils, weapons, instruments, housing, clothing, communication and transporting devices and the skills by which we produce and use them.”[5] But let me continue to clarify technology because the accepted uses that do not rely on conjecture are very important and relevant to this debate. Merriam-Webster defines technology as “the practical application of knowledge especially in a particular area and a capability given by the practical application of knowledge.”[6] Albert Borgmann, a Canadian sociologist writes that technology is “an activity that forms or changes culture”[7] His field of expertise is technology and its application for the benefit of life as known. Borgmann notes technology predates both modern science and engineering. Borgmann provides the example of modern communication technologies, including the development of the internet and the computer. Question for Pro: The Stone Age was a product of technology it was not a natural. Rebuttal to (4) First, I do not “believe” anything. Nature is “a crazy bitch” by way of example: § Volcanoes § Floods § Droughts § Tornados § Hurricanes § Extinction of 98% of all species to very exist on earth Pro wants to project human qualities on the nature: Which is fine if it provided transparency to the debate. But so far, the anthropomorphic version of nature only obscures and conjures up some kind of vague new-age spirituality. There is nothing inherent wrong with have those feelings, but again, this is a debate not a recitation of conjecture and unsubstantiated postulates. Evidence: None. Con’s question: where can I buy an inexpensive robotic dog, cat, and parrot? I have never seen one, especially not one vaguely comparable to a living animal. The reality: Pro claim and reason is irrelevant to the proposition argued. I could make the claim men prefer real women over robotic women. Apart from some rudimentary versions in Japan, there are not really robots comparable in appearance, intelligence, coordination, or anything else. If something doesn’t exist then they will by default choose the thing that exists. Rebuttal to point (7) First, no one said people hate nature. In fact, that is irrelevant to the debate. The fact people construct parks actually validates my large point that technology is worth more attention than nature. How So? Building parks is an artificial construction; parks do not exist in nature. While the Burden of Proof is not mine, let me make a case for as to why technology is worth more than nature: [This list is composed based expert and widely recognized use and understanding of the word TECHNOLOGY]: Concrete Examples of technology [a list provided by a Wikipedia entry: List of Technologies] The list includes technologies before the early modern era. Special comments are placed that directly address some of the claims made by Pro of nature but are in fact unnatural, artificial creations of man. This includes: animal domestication Pro mentioned in Round Two (dogs, parrots, cats). These are examples of practical technologies develop “unnaturally” by man. Fire creation Stone tools Fur clothing Mining Logboat Bone flute Animal domestication String Painting Ceramics Sewing Rope Plant domestication Brick Metalworking Salt cultivation Leather Irrigation Equestrianism Weaving loom Wheel Military Technologies Acheulean hand axes Spear and Javelin Dart thrower Boomerang Mace Microliths Bow Defensive wall Astronomical Technologies Classical Era (3500 BC - 500 AD) Practical Technologies Writing systems Mummification Papyrus Ard plough Wheel Glass making Galley Pottery Metallurgy/Bronze forging Plumbing Abacus Iron Smelting Arch Alphabet Glass making Steel Saddle Lock Aqueduct Archimedes' screw Caliper Crane Odometer Watermill Paper Aeolipile If Pro is such an advocate of nature and the need for greater attention to it, then: Why use the internet? Why not debate me in nature? All you would have to do is walk to where my house using whatever naturally device you can find. Oh wait, even the use of stars in the sky would be a technology, an unnatural invention of man. Why does pro own a computer? Why does pro use electricity? Why does pro have some kind of artificial shelter? Isn’t this contradiction an example of why when Pro “in his heart” believes technology is worth more attention [1] ""Burden of Proof."" Rational Wiki. July 24, 2014. Accessed August 19, 2014. http://rationalwiki.org.... [2] Turabian, Kate, Wayne Booth, Gregory Colomb, and Joseph Williams. A Manual for Writers of Research Papers, Theses, and Dissertations (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2007), 52-54. [3] “Editor’s Introduction,” in D. Moran and T. Mooney, eds, The Phenomenology Reader (London & New York: Routledge, 2002), pp. 1–26. [4] Liddell, Henry George and Robert Scott. A Greek-English Lexicon. (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1980). [5] Read Bain, ""Technology and State Government,"" American Sociological Review (December 1937): 860. [6] ""Definition of technology"". Merriam-Webster. Retrieved 2014-08-19. [7] Albert Borgmann (2006). ""Technology as a Cultural Force: For Alena and Griffin,"" The Canadian Journal of Sociology 31 (3): 351–360. [8] Christopher Browning, The Origins of the Final Solution: The Evolution of Nazi Jewish Policy"	CON	239
239	S863dddcf-A5f4a53c7	Formal education (K-12) ought to be compulsory in the United States	"I will now define terms relevant to the resolve. These definitions will be used frequently and their meaning will remain the same throughout the round. If pro thinks my definitions hinder his chance in winning this debate, than he may *offer* new ones. I expect most of this debate to rely on observation so evidence is welcome but don't expect me to hound you for it unless you claim something really outlandish. Formal: being in accord with established forms and conventions and requirements [3] Education: the activities of educating or instructing; activities that impart knowledge or skill [1] Compulsory: required by rule [2] C1: Compulsory education doesn't serve a meaningful purpose. As defined, education should impart knowledge or skill. The only skill education has successfully imparted is obedience and the will to accept authority. This is not a meaningful purpose and is actually harmful. When these children grow up and go to get jobs, they will not be concerned about how a company/corporation/etc is being run nor if the pay they are receiving is fair. Compulsory education (CE) makes kids accept being a tool of the working machine; just a part in a soulless mechanism. After all, they are nothing but a student at a desk in school. It inspires minds to become dull and non-inquisitive by redundant work ethics and concepts. Schooling has become a rite of passage and an unjustified one at that: ""it's just something that everyone has to go through."" It takes away one's free will and forces them to do things they'd rather not. This is not justifiable. CE fails to educate; how many people do you talk to on a daily basis that you would actually consider intelligent or interesting? Most people are not intelligent and not interested in learning. Of course, it is impossible to provide proof for this but I would hope it is self-evident. If not, how can you vouch for the intelligence of the public? CE has dissipated intelligent conversation and it is the main force behind ""small talk."" Teachers generally do not permit their students to speak and when they are speaking, it is generally not about anything meaningful. CE does nothing but waste precious and irrevocable time. Students aren't wondering, students aren't curious, students are bored = students are not learning and I conclude that CE is purposeless. C2: CE only teaches superficial information. The majority of what is learned at your average K-12 district is not meaningful. It is a given that we will use our language and some form of basic mathematics everyday. Secondary languages and advanced mathematics (including but not limited to trigonometry, calculus, algebra, etc) are superfluous. An important subject that one may overlook is history; how can one form an opinion on now if they never knew then? Parents can easily teach history to their children. After all, it's pretty common for children to espouse their parents political beliefs anyway, which are highly pertinent to history. A good example of pointless information would be learning about Huckleberry Fin or To Kill a Mockingbird. I consider both of them great books but kids simply aren't interested in them. They will retain some of the knowledge for a short while to pass the numerous quizzes and tests they will be faced with that relate to the books but it will be discarded afterward. I am not trying to devalue the importance of reading but reading books like the ones I gave examples of fail to teach anything of pragmatic value and usually just pertain to the curriculum. What does school educate you about that is a). necessary and b). couldn't be learned by yourself or taught by parents? C3: CE hurts people trying to attain jobs. To quote Rebecca Nelson of Mary Washington College, ""Employers and graduate schools alike look at future employees' education record as a tool of measuring academic achievement, work habits and competency in a particular field. A college transcript is often the most influential document future employers have to judge potential employees by,"" [4]. All of the following is true. If you are tempted to argue that the resolve is about CE and not college, than you should remember that one must usually complete CE to go to college. They are dependent upon each other. Employers also rely heavily on experience (volunteering, sports, clubs, and internships) to evaluate future employees [5]. The former are all a result of compulsory education. Without CE, kids can sooner become a part of the workforce whether their position is meaningful or not. It will teach them true responsibility and provide to them a more accurate representation of the work place. It also allows greater bonding time with parents which will teach skills that are not teachable anywhere except in the house by the parents and family. Conclusion: The resolution is negated. Compulsory education is not a necessary force in the United States as it serves no purpose (C1), teaches nothing of substance (C2), and actually hurts people in getting a job (C3). Evidence/Sources 1,2,3: http://wordnetweb.princeton.edu... 4: http://org.elon.edu... 5: http://www.associatedcontent.com..."	CON	240
240	Sb295af9a-Af80a2570	The Electoral College Should Be Abandoned	Alright, thanks for the debate. I'll argue that a popular vote would be more democratic and more in the nations actual interest. Secondly there have been at least two times in the past where the electoral college was abused by the electorates. An open vote system would avoid this.	PRO	241
241	S7015449-A52bf5bf2	Electoral College system	What is the purpose of individual voting with this? In 2000, Al Gore had more votes than George bush, but George Bush had more electoral college votes, so he won. And look how thats turned out.....	CON	242
242	S1bdb82e-Aac0952f5	A Debate On The Electoral College	"I would like to thank my opponent for his quick response. Note: Private messages between members is irrelevent to a debate. In the second round of debate Con offers no argument of his own. He seems content to merely rebut my points without offering an alternative plan to the Electoral College. Offering an alternative is essential if Con hopes to be competitive in this debate and should offer one in the final round. Because Con offers no alternative, I will briefly outline and rebut his claims. ------------ Claims: 1. Largely Republican or Democratic states get overlooked in an election. 2. Suggests that the system could be reformed to a ""weighted popular vote"" so that the smaller states still receive the benefits of union. 3. The votes in a state for the losing candidate are ""worthless, as they do not inffluence [sic] the election."" 4. Holding the census more often is a reform of the Electoral College. 5. Con claims that the election going to the House is bad because representatives rarely represent their consituency; and the election would be more susceptible to bribery. 6. ""My final stement is that when I said some citizens have more power than others, I was simply saying that they have more inffluence on THEIR STATE's popular vote, not in the nation as a whole."" Rebuttals: 1. The Election of 2008 provides evidence to the contrary. States that are supposedly firmly in Republican hands voted in favor of the Democratic candidate, Barack Obama. These include, but are not limited to North Carolina, Virginia, Colorado, and Indiana. These states not only did not go overlooked, but they ultimately voted against 'their' party. Obviously for this to occur, the democrats did not ignore the largely Republican states. Nor did the republicans, who scrambled to win back their support. 2. It is odd that Con would reverse course and support a ""weighted popular vote"" despite opposing the Electoral College because it gives the vote of some states more weight than others. Why complicate the electoral system if it is to be replaced with the very same concepts? The old adage ""If it ain't broke, don't fix it"" applies in this case. 3. This would apply to the nation as a whole, even if there were a popular vote. Under either system there will necessarily be a losing side. By this logic, all people voting for the losing candidate have wasted their time and their vote was worthless. Clearly this is not a compelling reason to reform the system, because there is no plausible way to eliminate the existence of a losing candidate in a free election short of electing all candidates or instituting a one-party system. 4. This is simply not true. There would be unintended effects on the Electoral College as a result of conducting the census more often, but the system would still remain the same. 5. Con has offered no sources and provides no evidence to support this claim. Until he does so we cannot suppose his claim to be true that representatives cannot be trusted to reflect their consituency. The same is true for bribery. I predict he will cite the 1824 election. However, historians have yet to produce enough evidence to prove there was bribery or any sort of ""corrupt bargain."" I don't expect Con will be able to do what longtime historians have yet to be able to do. Without evidence that bribery and corrupt representatives is the norm, this is not a valid argument in favor of taking the tie breaking duty from the House of Representatives. 6. This point does not even make sense, and is a blatant attempt at reversing his original position. He originally said >>>""In Wyoming citizens have more inffluence on the Electoral College by a margain of 4 to 1 (http://www.fairvote.org......) this leads to cititzens in certain states have more ""power"" than others.""<<< Here he is saying that Wyoming citizens have a more powerful representation than other states. This point is clear by his source (which he misquoted) that says Wyoming citizens have four times more power than Texas citizens. This point I have addressed and Con has not rebutted. His new position makes even less sense. He claims that some citizens have more power within ""THEIR STATE's popular vote."" This is simply untrue and unfounded. He offers no evidence or support for this point. ------- CONCLUSION Con has offered no compelling rebuttal to my argument that the Electoral College is necessary for the smaller states to enjoy the benefits of union. He has not challenged my claim that without the EC the smaller states would be dominated by the larger states. All he says is that the EC should be scrapped or it should be reformed, but he does not explain how or why. In the final round I challenge him to address my argument and to offer a viable alternative to the Electoral College."	PRO	243
243	S717923bb-A1170c68d	A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.	"""Plus valet in manibus avis unica fronde duabus"" Werner, Latin Sprichwörter, c. AD 1400 http://www.youtube.com... http://www.youtube.com... ""The things we already have are more valuable than the things we only hope to get."": http://dictionary.reference.com... ""It's better to have a small real advantage than the possibility of a greater one."": http://www.phrases.org.uk... ""...it is better to have something that is certain than take a risk to get more, where you might lose everything."": http://www.usingenglish.com... In real life, these ""birds"" correspond to measures of real value, and the whole proverb is a measurement of opportunity cost. For convenience, I am going to argue this in terms of x and y. X equals the bird in hand, and y equals the potential gain over the current value of bird you possess. The proverb can now be restated as follows: It is better to retain x than to sacrifice x for the potential to gain x+y. Obviously the validity of this proverb will vary in the real world; this is a philosophical debate, and cannot be held to quite the same level of proof that a matter of absolute fact can be. I shall argue that in on balance, it is better to retain x than to sacrifice x for the potential to gain x+y; or ""a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush."" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A little logic can help sort out the potential outcomes. The graph involved is simple, assuming even odds of gaining x+y; these are the labels: Keep = those cases in which x is kept Risk = those cases in which x is risked to gain x+y No = those cases in which x+y would not be gained by risking x Yes = those cases in which x+y would be gained by risking x .............No...Yes Keep.....x .....x-y Risk ..... 0 ....x+y In the ""No"" column, we would not gain x+y by risking x. We stand to lose the value of x. In the ""Yes"" column, if we sacrifice x, we will gain x+y. Keeping x carries an opportunity cost of y. The value for x is immaterial, as long as it is greater than zero: were it a negative number, it would be in our best interest to take any choice that nullified it, whether we gained y or not. .............No...... Yes Keep...-|x|.....y-x Risk........0....... y-x Similarly, if it were zero, we would have no incentive to hold on to it and would always risk it on the chance of gaining y. TL,DR TRANSLATION: The bird you hold must have a real non-zero value. The value for y is crucial; both in absolute terms, and as a ratio to x. If y is negative, the graph looks like this: ...........No....Yes Keep....x.......x Risk.....0.....x-|y| In this case, keeping x incurs no opportunity cost; risking x either loses it all or the remainder of x -|y|. If y is negative, under no circumstances is in our benefit to risk x. Similarly if y = 0, the reward for risking x is gone. In all cases where y is 0 or has a negative value, then, the proverb is completely accurate. TL,DR TRANSLATION: The proverb is correct in every case the birds in the bush have a value equal to or less than zero. For the purposes of debate we will assign y a positive value in all subsequent examples. To make the results easier to see, in every subsequent graph x will be assigned a value of 10. It can be any positive non-zero value, but 10 is convenient. There are three main possibilities to consider: 1. when y is significantly smaller than x 2. when y is close to or equal to x 3. when y is significantly bigger than x In cases where y is significantly smaller: .............No....Yes Keep....10.......9 Risk......0.......11 The opportunity cost for keeping x is very small, while the potential cost of risking x is large with a small potential payoff. In this case, it would not be reasonable to risk x, and the proverb is affirmed. In cases where y is close to or equal to x: ...........No...Yes Keep..10......0 Risk....0......20 If you keep x when you would have gained x + y, you incur an opportunity cost roughly equal to x. Risking x at worst loses x; at best gains x2. It would be in your best interest to risk x, all other things being equal. In cases where Y is significantly greater than x: ............No...Yes Keep....10.....-5 Risk......0......25 Again, risking x would be in your best interest, all other things being equal. Keeping x runs the risk of a negative payout, while the worst that can happen by risking x is losing it, and the reward is great. Note that, while these last two graphs seem to argue my opponent's side, these are for the cases in which the odds are 1 in 2 of gaining x + y. Life vary rarely offers odds nearly this good. TL,DR TRANSLATION: As long as the value of the birds in the bush is small, and it's even odds getting them, it isn't worth risking the bird you hold. If their value is greater than the one you hold, and the odds are even, it's worth trying. So, in all cases where y is smaller than x, the proverb holds. With even odds, if y is larger, you should risk it. This seems to argue that the proverb is wrong at least as many times as it is right, but life seldom offers us even odds of success. I do not know how to go about finding the average odds for life's opportunities, but those that we might be tempted to undertake typically range from 1 in 3 to 1 in 5; I doubt anyone but the most hardened gamblers would (knowingly) try for any odds longer than that. If y is close to or equal to x: ...........No..No.Yes Keep...10...10....0 Risk.....0.....0....20 ..........No..No..No..No..Yes Keep..10...10...10...10.....0 Risk....0.....0......0....0......20 In neither case is the risk justified. As the odds grow longer, the fact that you already have x becomes more significant. At 1 in 3, you are two times as likely to lose x as you are to gain 2x. At best, all you can hope for is to break even. But, since you already have x, it is more reasonable to keep it. At 1 in 5, you are four times as likely to lose x as you are to gain 2x. This is not a reasonable risk to take. As the odds grow longer, the value of y must increase in order to tempt us to risk x. Note that we do not necessarily know the value of y when we risk x, or even the precise odds; this uncertainty adds to the risk in real life, since we might be wagering x (whose value we know) on 15 to 1 odds for a reward less than x. Two examples: y = 20 at 1 in 3 odds and y = 20 at 1 in 5 odds. ..........No..No...Yes Keep..10...10....-10 Risk....0.....0......30 ..........No..No..No..No..Yes Keep..10...10...10...10....-10 Risk....0.....0.....0.....0......30 The first example is barely better than before. Y is twice x, and x + y is three times x, but playing these odds indefinitely yields no net gain. The second is still unjustifiable. Y must be much larger to make these odds worth the risk. Playing these odds indefinitely will result in a net loss. To balance increasing odds, the value of y must increase proportionately to cover the increased risk. Keeping x becomes a better proposition as the odds grow longer, no matter the value of y. TL,DR TRANSLATION: At more realistic odds than 1 in 2, the birds in the bush must be of significantly greater value than the one you hold to be worth the risk. Conclusion: Only if y is significantly larger than the potential losses is risking x reasonable at odds greater than 1 in 2. If y is equal to x or smaller, the reward is greater to retain x than to risk it. As the odds increase, the necessary value of y increases proportionately. In real life, one usually cannot be certain of the exact value of y. In real life, the odds are usually greater than 1 in 2. :. On balance, it is better to retain x than to risk it for x + y. A bird in the hand really is better than two in the bush."	PRO	244
244	Sc9466f76-A6280d44a	Single Sex Education is Better than Co-Education	"Hello all! My name is Jack and we will be debating educational methods. Resolution Single-Sex Education is better than Co-Education Definitions ""single-sex"" education-Schools where all students are of one gender. ""co-education""-Schools with both genders ""better than""-Benefits outweigh detriments Construct(1) Students at single-sex schools perform better than those at co-ed schools. (2) Males and females have different learning styles which must be treated differently. (3) Single-sex education can promote gender equality. (4) Students still have a life outside of class. Formalities If you accept, post all of your points with no expansions as your round 1 argument. We are not allowed to raise any new points after round 1. Refutations and point expansions will begin in round two. I hope you accept!"	PRO	245
245	S99e6abf2-A64dca102	What to study in college & why? [Career Challenge]	"I thank my opponent for his post, these are indeed popular choices, but as I shall demonstrate, they are also extremely poor choices. My burden is simply to show that my opponent's choices are poor while putting forth my own recommendations. The theme of my responses will be ""Practicality"". While any job can be described and packaged nicely and seem interesting to a high school student looking at colleges, individuals who have already gone through that process and who have faced the dreary reality of the working world can attest differently. The median salary listed by my opponent are likely representative of people who have been in the job for many years, who have networked, fought for promotions, and who are highly experienced. Furthermore, the idealistic descriptions my opponent gives do not reflect the grim reality of the working world: You do what your job requires and what your supervisor requires. Not what you feel like doing. As if that weren't bad enough, most jobs are extremely competitive and will only accept the top percentage of applicants, of which there are many. This would require attending the best programs, getting additional licenses and degrees, and undergoing additional work training from a related but less desirable job. Coupled with the absurd cost of higher education, you will likely be in intense debt before even starting your profession. Another problem is that many professions pay in an unpredictable fashion. What you earn is based a lot on luck and circumstance. That being said, let us examine these careers through a fine lens. *** Let us begin by looking at Field 3, Field 4, and Field 7. Special Ed Teachers need to go through four years of college education, licensure, as well as internship or residency before they can attain that position. This job also requires intense interaction with a wide variety of special needs individuals ranging from Down's syndrome to the autism spectrum. It is an extremely stressful profession with no upward mobility and low salary. Massage Therapists earn far too little and have difficulty finding clients depending on location. It is easy to glamorize the field by imagining what you see on TV, but chances are that you will end up working in dingy, low-rent locations in less than reputable neighborhoods with similar clientele. Writers and Authors earn a wide range, the median is not a suitable measure. You have authors that strike it very lucky and write bestsellers while the vast majority are simply young individuals who never seem to catch a break. Your paycheck will be extremely hard to earn. You will not be the next JK Rowling, you will simply be poor. *** Next tier: Field 2 and Field 6 Financial Managers are not entry level in any way. You need at least 5 years of experience in a related field, which actually means at least 7 to 8 years working in securities, accounting, as an analyst, etc. Business is a rough, cutthroat field. You can lose a lot of money through schooling and employment is extremely difficult to find unless you are in an urban area, and even then, it just means more competitors. You will also need to endure a massive amount of work in another field to be respected enough to apply for this position. Police and Detectives, while they have good benefits, also have to endure dangerous work conditions for middling pay. They need to dedicate their lives to their work, lots of different shifts, and likely have difficult family lives. If nothing happens to them, tragically, that is. ** That leaves Field 1 and 5. Aerospace Engineers are not in demand. The field is not demonstrating proper growth and it is very hard to get into. Few corporations require them and the ones that are needed, are already working. If there are jobs open, they will only take the best. By the time you come out of school, you will find yourself locked out of a job. The same goes for Medical Scientists. The more years you need to spend in school, the greater debt you will be in. You will owe a fortune after you get the necessary credentials and even then, your salary demands on who wants you, and if the company is profitable. The chances of you breaking even in a short period of time are very slim. *** Now, let me offer my advice: First Five: Elevator Installers and Repairers Brickmasons, Blockmasons, and Stonemasons Sheet Metal Workers Plumbers, Pipefitters, and Steamfitters Electricians These individuals have a HUGE advantage over any of my opponent's choices. Why? They start over $100,000 richer because they don't have to go to college. On top of that, they can get 4 years of working experience and on-job training/apprenticeship instead of college education. By the time any of the individuals studying things my opponent lists graduates college with six figures of debt, these individuals will be masters of their own craft, making $50k a year or more. Also note that the demand for these jobs is growing far faster than average, compared to my opponent's job choices, which are growing very slowly in this bad economy. The chance that you will be able to feed yourself and your family greatly increases with my options. Now, I have some further suggestions. Pharmacist Registered Nurse Software Developer Nurse Anesthetists, Nurse Midwives, and Nurse Practitioners Growth rate is spectacular, median pay is one and a half to twice what my opponent lists, job hiring is based more on personal skill than the reputation of the college so it is easy to get job placement with affordable higher education, and these four professions consistently rank among the top professions in any list. Since I have reached my limit of 9 this round, I will need to stop. However, I hope my opponent takes these into consideration. Sources: http://www.bls.gov... http://www.bls.gov... http://www.bls.gov... http://www.bls.gov... http://www.bls.gov... http://www.bls.gov... http://www.bls.gov... http://www.bls.gov... http://www.bls.gov... http://money.usnews.com... http://online.wsj.com..."	PRO	246
246	Sfad66533-Af2af9dcf	No money for education	"The Pro's argument is an incoherent rant. Basically, it's a bunch of assertions: 1: Our system sucks. 2: No Child Left Behind is a cleverly designed military draft. (?) 3: Home schooling beats ""it"" like a mule. Thus this rebuttal will be structured into three observations, which will outline the impacts in today's debate and then discuss which side is winning off of htose. Observation One: There is no analysis. No warrants, no impacts. Only claims. He asserts all of this, without any logic or any statistical evidence. As a result, this CANNOT be counted as legitimate evidence in the debate. For example, if I assert: - Publicly funded education has stopped thousands of nuclear holocausts. Then obviously you want me to tell you how. One cannot accept that the claim (nuclear holocausts) is true until there is some reason (analysis like I give, or statistics, quotes whatever) that back that claim up. The PRO gives none of those, and so his claims are discarded. Observation Two: The PRO, even if his assertions are true, OMITS how privately funded education will stop the problems he discusses. He gives you no proof that the PRO plan will fix the problems he asserts, and so even if you VOTE PRO, you still won't solve anything. As a result, the problems he outline REMAIN PROBLEMS on his side. Essentially, there are no unique arguments made by the PRO, and so there's no reason to vote for him. Observation Three: He refutes none of the CON's points. These impacts are warranted and impacted. I'll go through them: (C = Claim, I = Impact) C1: Education is a fundamental human right. I: Depriving individuals of education deprives them of their human rights. C2: Federal funding is necessary to ensure all individuals are able to access their right to education. I: The PRO plan deprives individuals of education. C3: Curriculum based education provides the most stringent standards for student development. I: Implementing the PRO's plan will remove these standards, degrading the value of an education, and the evaporating much of the learning a student COULD have under publicly funded education. C4: Capitalist-based schooling exacerbates socioeconomic problems. I: The PRO's plan separates individuals arbitrarily and keeps minorities from achieving. The claim is almost the impact itself: Do you want to perpetuate a system where an arbitrary factor such as race will keep you from accessing your human rights? C5: Privately funded education will not benefit the economy. I: A diminished economy harms all 310 million Americans, hurts our global competitiveness and on the whole is very, very, very, bad. :) Observation Four: Summary of the Previous Three: 1) There are no PRO impacts, only unwarranted claims. 2) The PRO offers no way to solve for those claims. 3) The CON offers clear impacts, with clear reasoning why the PRO plan will not solve for them. Observation Five: Vote Con, please. Hah."	CON	247
247	Sea22c804-Aa9d5b8ed	The Electoral College Needs to be Replaced	Round 1 will be accepted only and position statement. Round 2 will be opening arguments and round 3 will rebuttals I would enjoy a round where it is extreme, keep it as it is, no variation of the EC. Position statement: The Electoral College should be replaced with a new system.	PRO	248
248	S15cbc009-Afd1ef0e	The US should Ensure Access to Quality Education For Everyone	Thank you for allowing me the privilege of debating this topic with you. My opponent starts out with: You are all straight A students, I'm sure. You may or may not work hard to achieve this; that's irrelevant. The fact is that no matter how hard you work, education levels are almost always determined only by how rich you are. I didn’t know you would know our academic records. Now, I’m a little paranoid j/k. The quoted argument above is completely absurd. Let’s imagine a world where everyone is “rich” and can send their kids wherever they desire to obtain the world’s best education. Even in such a utopia those who refuse to learn, to put in the time and effort required, would not higher education levels; such fools would fail. I don’t think effort is at all irrelevant to how far someone goes in their education. A total lack of effort wouldn’t result in an education but rather a waste of time and money. You say education levels are “almost always” determined by wealth. So, in what circumstances isn’t it determined by how rich you are? You’re not exactly consistent on this point. Next pro argues: Suppose your had little money. You are very smart, but due to your family's financial situation, you are forced to attend a public school. Enter the Fool, as we will call him. His family is rich, and can afford to send him places you yourself can't go. Instead of going to a public school, he is sent to a private boarding school in Switzerland. He promptly starts bullying, abusing his rights, and not learning a bit; he can do this with little consequences, because his parents are major benefactors to the school board. After all, if we see what the board is thinking, we would simply see... ka-ching! I don’t see how the rich getting a good education bars the non-rich from also achieving that goal. True, it may not be as easy to obtain but nothing worth attaining is. This argument is little more than jealousy; if the poor placed as much effort in finding ways to educate themselves as they do whining about their circumstances perhaps education levels would be equal. Your resolution is to ensure access to quality education for everyone. How would this goal be attained? Would you prevent rich people from higher education goals or subsidize the poor to be on equal footing? What exactly are you proposing? I don’t see how racial de-segregation reaches your goal. St. Louis is one of the most de-segregated public school system (still using busing) and yet the education outcomes are still poor in the city. The only part of your conclusion I agree with is that Education is related to knowledge. Conclusion: The 10th amendment states that, “The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people.” Nowhere in the Constitution is the Federal government granted the power over education nor the responsibility to ensure it for all Americans. So on the Constitutional level, I’d have to argue that, no, the US (Federal) should not ensure access to quality education and that it would be the states responsibility or even more important the individual’s. Ensuring access to quality education for everyone in the US would be prohibitively expensive. If history has taught us anything, it’s that when we try to ensure equality we end up with everyone brought down to the lowest common denominator. I look forward to your reply. Sources: [1] http://www.archives.gov...	CON	249
249	S1bdb82e-A4931330a	A Debate On The Electoral College	"I would like to thank Con for offering the opportunity to debate this most interesting of topics. Good Luck! My esteemed opponent has analyzed the electoral college and found it wanting. He believes it to be an inefficient formality. He offers two contentions to support his resolution: 1. ""The Electoral College [EC] makes votes unheard."" 2. The EC gives some regions more representation than their population warrants, and others less. I will begin by correcting Con's analysis on what the EC is and what the EC is not. Then I will then refute his two contentions. Finally, I will offer a brief conclusion. (Note: I reserve the right to offer new arguments in round two) --------- Con believes that the main purpose of the modern EC is to echo the popular vote of its consituency. To a degree he is correct, this is a major function of the EC, but not the only one. The United States is a Federal Republic. A Federal Republic is a collection of sovereign states that give up certain aspects of their autonomy to form a larger 'union', or 'Federation'. [1] Therefore, when electing the Head of State for a Federal Republic there is more to consider than regional population. A state needs to be adequately represented in order to benefit from being a member-state of a Federation. The EC ensures that smaller, less populated states receive the same benefits as the larger ones. Without the EC smaller states such as Wyoming or West Virginia would receive even less federal consideration than they do under the current system. Politicians would have little reason to visit the mid-western states, and even less reason to give them the same benefits of union that larger states like New York and California enjoy. ------------ Claims: 1. The EC makes votes unheard (a,b,c). 2. The EC leads to overrepresentation and underreppresentation. Rebutals: 1. a) My young opponent claims that the voices of some citizens voting for the losing candidate go unheard (in cases where the winner of the popular vote loses the EC vote). I find a different interpretation to be more accurate. Their voices do not go unheard, rather the voice of the states Does get heard. b) This is not an argument in favor of reforming the EC. This is an argument in favor of conducting the federal census more often. We have the technology to make this more feasible today than we did when the census was instituted in the mid 1800s. c) Con is correct in his historical analysis. However, he offers no explanation as to why the election going into the House of Representatives is a bad thing that suggests that our election methods should be reformed. 2.. If someone were to look strictly at the popular vote then Con would be correct in this claim. However, as I have discussed above, there are more things to take into consideration. This nation was founded both on the sovereignty of the people and the sovereignty of separate states. The two branches of congress were created with the same principle as the EC. It apportions some of the representation based on population (House of Representatives) and the rest based on statehood (two votes for each state in the Senate). This gives smaller states like Wyoming the same representational proportion quoted by Con in Congress for the very same reason that the EC takes both measures into consideration - to ensure that the smaller states have some say in the Federal government. Therefore it would be more accurate to say that these states are given a base level of power to make their existence in the federation worthwhile than it would be to say that its citizens exercise more 'power' than others. ------------- CONCLUSION The United States of America was founded with two things in mind: the sovereignty of the people and the sovereignty of the separate states. These principles are reflected in the apportionment of Congress and the apportionment of the Electoral College. Both of these institutions ensure that the more populace regions like the Northeast and the West Coast do not dominate the less populace ones. A base level of power is necessary in order for all states to enjoy the benefits of union. 1. http://en.wikipedia.org..."	PRO	250
250	Se8acb758-A8aaf4a6e	Resolved:the Ivy League has lost its prestige and allure as many non-Ivy schools have exceeded them.	"First of all I must ask what you consider prestigious to mean? Most people consider prestigious to signify ""the best"". Yes, many of our state universities provide not only adequate, but top notch quality education. But I would disagree with the statement that being ""cost effective"" would classify one as prestigious. In fact the word ""prestige"" is often associated with wealth and connections. Yes, perhaps these Ivy League schools seemed overpriced to your average student but to many it seems worth the extra cost for the coveted ""label"". Just as some people will pay more for that ""brand name"" clothing item, the same goes for certain classes and their education. Yes, that off brand jacket is sufficient enough to keep you warm but the majority of consumers will pay a larger price for one similar just because it carries a well known name. As far as your comment about the old buildings I have one word to say about that ""History"". Not much different to one of the prime rules of selling and buying real estate ""Location, Location, Location."" Build the same house, one in the middle of Kansas, the other on a beach in Malibu….which will cost more? Also there are many out there who are willing to pay more for the experience of studying in an institution such as Harvard that has had a superb reputation for over three hundred years. Then there is that added benefit of bragging rights. Though some desire the experience just to impress others by telling them that they lived and studied in the same place as ""President so and so"", others (like me) are fascinated with the past and love the nostalgic feeling that only older universities can incite. As far as being taught by old geezers. From my college experience I found the ""old geezers"" to be the best teachers of all. They captivated me with not only their knowledge but experience. Those are the classes I learned the most in, and remember most fondly. I can't say much for the many classes in which I was subjected to TA's (student teachers or teacher assistants) which were barely out of college themselves and knew minimal about what they taught. I will agree with the fact that one can receive just as great, maybe even a better education at a more cost efficient university. However, your argument contends that Ivy League schools have lost their ""prestige and allure"". In 2006 The New York Times wrote that ""The most prestigious college in the world, of course, is Harvard, and the gap between it and every other university is often underestimated. Colleges that emphasize teaching may well offer a better education that Harvard. But it still exerts a pull on teenagers that is unmatched."" If they have lost their allure then why was this a record breaking year for applicants being rejected from these schools? An article in the April 4, 2007 edition of the New York Times written by Sam Dillon, ""A Great Year for Ivy League Schools, but Not So Good for Applicants to Them."" proves that these schools will not lose their bragging rights anytime soon. ""Ten years ago a student with perfect SAT's or a valedictorian could have easily gotten accepted at the college of his/her choice, provided of course that the essays and the recommendations were respectable. This has all changed. According to Dillon, ""Harvard turned down 1,100 student applicants with perfect 800 scores on the SAT math exam. Yale rejected several applicants with perfect 2400 scores on the three-part SAT, and Princeton turned away thousands of high school applicants with 4.0 grade point averages. Needless to say, high school valedictorians were a dime a dozen. It was the most selective spring in modern memory at America's elite schools, according to college admissions officers. More applications poured into top schools this admissions cycle than in any previous year on record,"""	CON	251
251	S95535bbc-A550a2570	The Electoral College is a logical system	The United States is not a democracy, We are constitutional republic. I do not think you understand that pure democracy sucks. The founding fathers knew this and they created the system that currently exists in order to avoid that. If this was a pure democracy, California would dominate the entire political landscape as they have over 10% of eligible voters, But they don't dominate the elections. Smaller states such as Iowa, Ohio and other swing states because their say matters in the electoral college but in a pure popular vote it would not matter. The electoral college is one of the checks and balances that keeps our country stable. Also if you only wanted this because you think Hillary would have won if the system was purely on popular vote, Stop being so naive and sensitive. BTW, Trump has done a pretty good job with our economy, Something Hillary knows not much about. (She almost became out first f president. I meant to say female but I deleted the emale)	PRO	252
252	S7519549b-A3e204e95	Animals are worth more	"Well, you have to be clear on what you were talking about when you were saying ""World Animal Protection"". Either way, they seem to just want to put regulations on people that are not doing any harm whatsoever to other people. This effort is futile. because putting laws into place protecting Animals just makes life harder. It is a waste of time for tax money to go into defending animals that have no conscience of what morality is. Morality Defense: Pro claims that animals actually do have morality, and they are sympathetic to there ""friends"". Too bad. monkeys do not represent every animal species there is. This a huge claim to make. Just because monkeys have an idea of morality, does not mean wolves, lions, snakes, and lizards have that idea. Monkeys and Apes are also the most intelligent of them all. We evolved from them. Pro has not shown clear reasoning why Apes should represent the whole animal kingdom, and should not have waited till round three to introduce new evidence. ""We should let them have a normal life in the nature."" We do not let them live a normal life, because all the food we eat comes from animals. Chickens, Pigs, Fish, and Cow all are animals that are not left alone. Humans use them to there advantage, because we are the dominant ones. Pro already admits that animals kill humans, because of fear. Humans also kill animals, because of fear. The main significant point is that this is a wasted effort. There is no real way to track down people that torture animals for fun. There is no real way to actually put laws that the government will actually take seriously. We all know the general reality that animal sympathizers do not care about. There is a difference between us and them. We are more intelligent than animals. Animals are manipulated and cared by humans. If there was a single equivalence to humans and animals, than why does Pro keep acting like there special needs children that need to be protected. Animals are not children. They are predators. I have proven that the great majority of animals do not know about the idea of morality. Animals in the end are not worth more. Humans can treat them anyway they want as long as it does not harm the human race."	CON	253
253	S1901e66f-A7df10bf2	The Electoral College	"Defence Contention 1 Con’s argument about democratic principles does not work. We are not a complete democracy, so we do not need to follow each ideal of democracy. If we compare the breaking of an principle to an oppressed minority I think it is painfully obvious what we should support. On my claim on the senate, I included that argument to show that not everything in our government follows the democratic ideals. This does not make it a red herring. Con also claims that my analogy falls flat, but using his logic it would not matter what the senate does, it still breaks the democratic ideal of equal representation. Contention 2 The reason that there are a majority of undecided voters in the US is because of the electoral college. In a popular vote system, the democratic candidate could campaign solely to the coasts and win the White House, and the republican candidate could do the same in the South and Midwest. The candidates would pander to certain groups, dividing the populace as a whole. Our current system forces candidates to be moderate, representing all Americans. Contention 3 Con claimed that I conceded this point when I said that the US was a liberal democracy. The point of this contention was to prove that pure democracy was not ideal. By stating that the US was a liberal democracy and a constitutional republic I have not conceded anything. A pure democracy is not good. Contention 4 Con’s refutation of this point is weak. He claims that the election would still be in hold of local authorities, but If this was a popular vote system there would be no point in the election being in hold of these authorities. We commonly refer to it as eliminating the middleman. Under the electoral college there is a regional subdivision, which makes it easier to isolate a problem. Under the popular vote, the entire population would vote directly for president, and the entire country would work as a whole. Rebuttals R1 Swing States ""The Pro also cited a primary election stop in California by Donald Trump, however, that stop is not relevant to the debate being had at all. "" It is relevant, because California is considered a blue solid state. Under Con’s logic there would be no point in Trump campaigning there. R3 Limited Choice ""The Pro claims that “winner take all” is not written in law, however, this is blatantly false."" If this was so “blatantly false”, why did Con not link a law. In his defence Con does to explain how states parcel out votes in a winner take all fashion. I never said that states did not, I just said that it was not written in a legal document. Con has not provided a document with this written in it because there isn’t one."	PRO	254
254	S7015449-A62bbf7d3	Electoral College system	Let me clarify that I am personally undecided on whether the U.S. should abolish the electoral college, but I'll play devil's advocate here. I do believe though, that electors should be stripped of the power to vote against those they represent, if it does remain at all I think it should remain solely as a strictly representative body. Advocates of the electoral college say that it is necessary to give less populated areas of the country a relatively equal say in presidential elections. This is the same reason that people advocated for the New Jersey Plan during the Constitutional Convention: smaller, less populous states wanted equal representation in Congress. People assert that more populous areas such as California and New York, would have greater control on the election. As a side-note, I'd also like to ask how much better off do you think we would be with 8 years of Al Gore and Joe Lieberman, the Kings of Government Censorship?	PRO	255
255	Sbd70c81e-A1dc23421	We should follow the example of Finland's education system.	I'm sure many Americans and Finns would agree you don't have swag yourself, and that Finns know English better than you. The whole world's having a hard time. It's time we, whichever nation we come from, started thinking on the long term. Of course, this is easier to say, as money doesn't come easy or at least not to the right places nor to the right people. But maybe education is something worth investing in. I think it' something we'll come to regret very soon if we don't make it much better today, or even in the next generation. I won't bother repeating myself, as Con's not making the effort to produce anything useful. I'll put my trust in the voters' common sense.	PRO	256
256	S717923bb-Addaa392	A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.	"Opening My opponent's main case revolves around the fact that the two birds in the bush would need to be of significantly greater value than the bird in the hand in order for a risk to pay off. Because the proverb already has already established the variance between amounts, we can deffer to the birds being on average double to the amount of the bird in the hand. If we don't set some form of intrinsic worth into the proverb, we can go back and forth producing multiple examples of someone risking their pasture for one with greener grass, and it ends up being full of manuer. But this is not really what the proverb is about. The proverb is about risking one bird for two birds. We already know that two birds are double the amount of one bird. The fact that my opponent says the value [of 2 birds] would need to be significantly greater [than 1 bird] in order for a risk to pay off, he already concedes the fact that two birds are more valuable than one bird. We would not risk something for nothing. Let's think about this in terms that we all can understand, money: 2 dollars are significantly greater than 1 dollar. One dollar cannot even buy you a burger at Mcdonalds, due to tax. A person with two dollars gets to eat while the person with one dollar goes hungry. Would a hungry person risk their one dollar, which can't buy them much, for a chance to gain two dollars, in order to eat? 1,000 dollars are significantly greater than 500 dollars. 2,000,000 dollars are significantly greater than 1,000,000 dollars. But life is more than money or numbers. Look a bit deeper into this passage and we understand that it is really talking about somoene enjoying what they have rather than demanding more. We could say this equates to greed, but it only equates to greed when we think about material possessions. There are other values in life aside from material possessions. Payoff of Risks Let's say you have a decent partner. This partner treats you with a small amount of respect and loyalty. You know they are a good person, though there is a lack in spark and desire. You think of them more as family than as a lover. But you hope for someone who will give you all that you could ask for. Do you get rid of the current partner and risk being alone to find your soulmate; someone who you can share laughter, happiness, and passion with? I say you do. You do if you want to pursue happiness. If you revel in complacency, you might stick around with the current partner and go deeper and deeper into a funk. We see that the real focus on this proverb is about hope. We hope for things that we think can bring more joy and fulfillment into our lives. We have no reason to be complacent. We only have one shot at fulfilling our lives. Faith in something greater makes you happier The promise of hope is a powerful one. Millions of people have given up their earthly bonds in order to pursue a higher level of evolution. One example of this is Christians and the pursuit of Heaven. In the religion, it is said that those who have little in earth will have much in Heaven. Those that give away their material desires and succumb to God's will shall meet God in Heaven with open arms. This is surely a case of the bush holding a more valuable worth than the hand. Whether or not Heaven exists, or the Christians have it right, is futile. The point is that people will gladly give up what they know to pursue something of greater importance; and they will feel better from it. Someone who searches for something greater is on average more happier than someone who does not. [1] A few closing quotes on hope and complacency: ""A leader is a dealer in hope."" - Napolean Bonaparte ""The ninety and nine are with dreams, content but the hope of the world made new, is the hundredth man who is grimly bent on making those dreams come true."" - Edgar Allen Poe ""Optimism is the faith that leads to achievement. Nothing can be done without hope and confidence"" - Helen Keller [3] ""An audience shouldn't listen with complacency."" - Peter Davis ""When a great team loses through complacency, it will constantly search for new and more intricate explanations to explain away defeat."" - Pat Riley [3] Final Rebuttal ""On balance, it is better to retain x than to risk it for x + y. A bird in the hand really is better than two in the bush."" This quote by my opponent admits that a bird in the hand is NOT equal to two birds in the bush. Our resolution is that A bird in the hand IS equal to two in the bush. Conclusion This proverb is more than materials. It is about risking what one knows for something greater. What is greater holds more value than what we are comfortable with. Two birds in the bush are not worth one in the hand. 1. http://jerry-lopper.suite101.com... 2. http://www.brainyquote.com... 3. http://www.brainyquote.com..."	CON	257
257	Sd0a8ad59-A91f2f828	Animal Testing for non-medical reasons. Are the deaths worth it>	"Dear chicken dude thanks for joining this debate, i wish you luck, also you have made some very good points. Your argument was very nice, but please note that this is for non-medical reasons ""2. Humans and animals catch diseases much in the same way. Marijuana developed its psychoactive qualities to poison insects from eating the plant. Marijuana affects insects almost exactly how it affects us. Our nervous systems are even more similar in animals. Computer simulators sometimes fall short and there aren't adequate labs often where outbreaks occur. We can quickly test animals albeit inefficiently w/o labs. Sometimes the cost/benefit favors a lab, sometimes it doesn't. "" This statement is based on medical things. Yes i do consider marijuana's effects a medical issue. Your #3 argument is is based on money, and technology, yes i do agree that money is important but is it worth a life? Think about it you wouldn't test a human would you, if someone even suggested it people would be all ""Oh my God, are you crazy!"" and all ""Back away slowly..."" So why is it different when someone suggests killing an animal? Because it's ""less important than a human"" also i really disagree with your #1 argument, yes the death of the animal sometimes does help, but it is only, in my opinion important in medical reasons that will help millions of humans and animals alike just for the death of a very few animals. But for cosmetics? So beauty really is that important to people now isn't it? And please note again that the title is ""Animal Testing for non-medical reasons."" Not for medical reasons. Also with your #4 argument has nothing to do with morality in my opinion, the animals not having rights shows their helplessness not that it is morally right to kill animals, does it? Also answering your question ""Is a cow worth a human life?"" is very hard it is a bit like those ""who do you like better? your mom or dad?"" Questions. But you make a point, i guess not... But why is it that the death of a million animals is taken as nothing compared to the death of 1 human? Also you are right that ""animal testing can be good for humans, bad for animals, good for animals, bad for humans, or any combination of the three"" but it is usually used to help humans, and if the animal lives without side effects then the animal testing is only 5 on the level of badness (from 1 to 10) of animal testing. But if it lives after being put through so much or it lives but its living conditions are bad then it is 11 on the 1 to 10 scale. I am hoping to convince you than animal testing for non-medical reasons is cruel and wrong."	CON	258
258	S54bdc9d5-A7b88e3b4	College athletes should not be paid.	I really do not have anything more to add. I do hope you will return to make a closing statement. I extend all of the arguments I have already stated. If you do not return for the final round, this will be interpreted as a forfeit. Either way, it was a pleasure to debate you. For all the reasons I have stated in the past rounds, I believe that college athletes should not be paid.	PRO	259
259	Sea22c804-A33a04da4	The Electoral College Needs to be Replaced	"Thank you for clarifying. In fairness, I see your point however, I should note how Trump is very anonymous with his party affiliations. Before the Election of 2016, Trump was reported to have ""shifted his party registration back and forth (five times, according to the Washington Times""s report of a report by The Smoking Gun). Trump, Politico reports, also was a substantial donor to Senator Clinton, the Clinton Foundation, and many other Democrats."" [1] To put it simply, Trump has been notorious for being anonymous, and believed by some to be a Democrat, which would make sense due to his Vice President choice being Mike Pence- a strong Right-Wing leader to further represent his Right affiliation. I will emphasize my point through repeating how I believe that the Electoral College is, in fact, a fairly proportional system already. It has served to represent the states fairly through the number of Electors signifying the number of Representatives- to whom are purposely set to equally and fairly represent the state. Big states are not the only ones that can determine the election. Swing States are a big part of the election as they can lean Left or Right. Iowa, is an example, and as I have said before- Iowa has only 6 Electoral Votes, yet plays such a significant role in the Elections and has most certainly helped in candidates winning the Election. Remember: it is fair game for either party to take the state- the state is not set to prioritize a party during each Election, it is figuratively in the hands of the people with the popular vote. In other words it CAN help or it CAN hurt the Democrats and the Republicans. On account of my missing citation for the Gallup chart: here is some information as well as the citation. ""Results for this Gallup poll are based on telephone interviews conducted Nov. 28-29, 2016, on the Gallup U.S. Daily survey, with a random sample of 1,021 adults, aged 18 and older, living in all 50 U.S. states and the District of Columbia. For results based on the total sample of national adults, the margin of sampling error is ""4 percentage points at the 95% confidence level. All reported margins of sampling error include computed design effects for weighting."" [2] Here is a list of some of the attempts to reform the Electoral College [3]. The reason I bring them up is to further support my point that even after 200 years we have not managed to have enough people, especially members of Congress, agree to reform it- suggesting that they believe it to not be an issue. I trust that they truly believe the Electoral College to be sufficient enough not to require change/reform. The point is not that it has over a 50% 'disapproval' rating, it is the point that it IS increasing. People are slowly beginning to agree with the Electoral College system. It's the change in data that we should be focused on. I have not seen reason to believe it goes against ""the will of the people."" If we play a role in who gets to become an Elector to represent us, than we have helped determine that that said person acquiring the role is sufficient and able to fulfill his duty to represent the people. That is indeed a Democratic-Republic as it has representatives representing the people. On your note about the Red Wall- it is not preventing like you may think. The reason I say this is because of Pennsylvania, a strong Leftist states in Elections that can be considered to be part of the ""Blue Wall"", actually went Right for Trump in the 2016 Election. To rephrase, states can change- even if they are in the ""Walls."" It all just depends on the Electors and their votes, of course. In conclusion, I feel that you are centered on just what is happening come Election time- not the overall changes or significance behind the events, for example. As for my argument- I reiterate how I believe the The electoral college does not need to be replaced and is sufficient the way it is, today- or at the very least, is slowly becoming sufficient to the nation, today. I would like to thank you for this debate! It was great to meet you and debate with you. Hopefully we will get to debate later on as well. Have a good week everyone and I appreciate you all for reading the debate! [1] ""Donald Trump, Democrat?"" Benko, Ralph- a contributor for Forbes. https://www.forbes.com... [2] ""Americans' Support for Electoral College Rises Sharply"" http://news.gallup.com... [3] http://archive.fairvote.org..."	CON	260
260	S1bdb82e-Aeb92b95	A Debate On The Electoral College	"""Note: Private messages between members is irrelevent to a debate."" I was simply stating the subject of this debate ""In the second round of debate Con offers no argument of his own. He seems content to merely rebut my points without offering an alternative plan to the Electoral College. Offering an alternative is essential if Con hopes to be competitive in this debate and should offer one in the final round."" I realize my error in the last argument. My alternative is eliminating the ""winner-take-all"" aspect of the Electoral College. This means that states may divide their Electoral Vtes between different candidates. This means that smaller states still have representation and means that no votes are lost. I also believe all electors shoould be pledged to vote for the winner of the popular vote in their state. I think we should also eliminate the maximum number of seats in the house. By destroying this limit, it lets all states be equally represented. ""1. The Election of 2008 provides evidence to the contrary. States that are supposedly firmly in Republican hands voted in favor of the Democratic candidate, Barack Obama. These include, but are not limited to North Carolina, Virginia, Colorado, and Indiana. These states not only did not go overlooked, but they ultimately voted against 'their' party. Obviously for this to occur, the democrats did not ignore the largely Republican states. Nor did the republicans, who scrambled to win back their support."" I realize this, but my point still stands. Neither of the candidates campaigned in wyoming ( a highly Republican state) or Washington D.C. (a highly Democratic city). Though the states you mention defied their historcal voting records, they did not defy the polls. ""2. It is odd that Con would reverse course and support a ""weighted popular vote"" despite opposing the Electoral College because it gives the vote of some states more weight than others. Why complicate the electoral system if it is to be replaced with the very same concepts? The old adage ""If it ain't broke, don't fix it"" applies in this case."" I didn't say I supported weighted Popular Vote, I said there are systems where states are adequetley represernted. ""3. This would apply to the nation as a whole, even if there were a popular vote. Under either system there will necessarily be a losing side. By this logic, all people voting for the losing candidate have wasted their time and their vote was worthless. Clearly this is not a compelling reason to reform the system, because there is no plausible way to eliminate the existence of a losing candidate in a free election short of electing all candidates or instituting a one-party system."" The system I offered above makes a vote in any individual state count for something. This means that if you vote for the losing candidate in your state, they might still get Electoral Votes. ""4. This is simply not true. There would be unintended effects on the Electoral College as a result of conducting the census more often, but the system would still remain the same."" I think we just agree on this issue. ""5. Con has offered no sources and provides no evidence to support this claim. Until he does so we cannot suppose his claim to be true that representatives cannot be trusted to reflect their consituency. The same is true for bribery. I predict he will cite the 1824 election. However, historians have yet to produce enough evidence to prove there was bribery or any sort of ""corrupt bargain."" I don't expect Con will be able to do what longtime historians have yet to be able to do. Without evidence that bribery and corrupt representatives is the norm, this is not a valid argument in favor of taking the tie breaking duty from the House of Representatives."" Although I do think there was corruption in the 1824 election, A better example of this is What might happen in the future. Already we see a bitter battle between Republicans and Democrats, if they decide the president, none of the votes will matter, and the representatives will not reflect the votes of the nation. For those who don't know, in 1824, No one recieved a majority of votes. So the election was decided by the House Of Representatives. Then after Speaker of the House Henry Clay supported John Quincy Adams, he easily became president, even after winning the Popular vote or the most Electoral Votes. Adams then Mae Clay the Secretary of State. The Electoral College was flawed, so with a minority of the popular and Electoral Vote. By pledging all the electors tie situations are less likely. 6. This point does not even make sense, and is a blatant attempt at reversing his original position. He originally said >>>""In Wyoming citizens have more inffluence on the Electoral College by a margain of 4 to 1 (http://www.fairvote.org.........) this leads to cititzens in certain states have more ""power"" than others.""<<< Here he is saying that Wyoming citizens have a more powerful representation than other states. This point is clear by his source (which he misquoted) that says Wyoming citizens have four times more power than Texas citizens. This point I have addressed and Con has not rebutted. His new position makes even less sense. He claims that some citizens have more power within ""THEIR STATE's popular vote."" This is simply untrue and unfounded. He offers no evidence or support for this point. I realize my wording was bad. I meant that Wyoming has an elector for every 165,000 people while Texas has an elector for every 652,000 people. This means they are exxtremely overrepresented. I know my wording was VERY bad and confusing. I thank my opponent for a wonderful debate."	CON	261
261	S1ce229d0-Aee04835e	College Football is better than NFL football	College Football is something that a solid amount of Americans enjoy on a Saturday afternoon. The same goes with NFL football on Sunday. The difference between the two, is the passion of the fans. For me, an Iowa Hawkeyes and Notre Dame fan, I enjoy watching these teams a little more than I do watching my favorite NFL team, the Chicago Bears. Now, don't get me wrong I adore the NFL, but there is something about college football that makes it better College Football has a much different feeling than NFL football. It is something a lot of Americans can get into because they may have attended the school they love. For me I like the Iowa Hawkeyes because my father attended that school and my entire family is from Iowa, they also root for them as well. My point is that it is easier to like a college football team rather than an NFL team because you can say that you attended the school. I myself can say that about the college I will be attending in 2 years. The passion of college football beats the passion of the NFL.	PRO	262
262	Sf49a4f1e-A11fa6ae1	An animal's life is worth just as much as a human's.	This sounds like it could be interesting. I look forward to hearing your arguments. Since the burden of proof is on you, I will not attempt to show that animals are not equal to humans in worth. Instead, I'll just try to refute your arguments. Or, if you persuade me, I'll concede. Good luck!	CON	263
263	Sf49a4f1e-A2420027f	An animal's life is worth just as much as a human's.	It is my strong and firm belief that the lives of animals are worth the same as a human's. Note that when I say this, I mostly mean household pets like dogs and cats. Therefore, I believe that animals should be treated in an equal manner to humans; they should be entitled to rights and protection in the same way as a human.	PRO	264
264	S7239d5ee-Acfb3449b	Education is perception of skills	"Im just going to get right into this. I am also hopong for a good debate :] ""I dont think that any type of perception is required for skills because>> ~perception is needed for quality~ ~skill is not a quality~ ~but its an ability...~ Perception is described as this in the dictionary. Perception An active information process, which allows us to organise, interpret, and ultimately act upon sensory information coming to us from our outside world. Perception is different from sensation. http://www.encyclo.co.uk... Now according to this..in order to have perception you have to be able to organize and interpret information correctly. These are two of the many skills in which you learn in school. Back in the earlier years of school (we'll use 3rd grade as an example) teachers were always telling you to stay organized. Also a skill learned in the classroom is interpretation. I remember from my third grade year we learned main idea. I had to interpret information in the paragraph to figure out what words meant and to hypothisize what would happen next in the story. This is the definition of a quality: an essential and distinguishing attribute of something or someone; a degree or grade of excellence or worth; a characteristic property that defines the apparent individual nature of something; http://www.google.com... so according to your first point (~perception is needed for quality~) what you are saying to me is this: In order to organise, interpret, and ultimately act upon sensory information coming to us from our outside world you have to have a degree or grade of excellence or worth within yourself. basically your saying that: If you want to organise, interpret, and ultimately act upon sensory information coming to us from our outside world you have to be automatically smart and know what your doing within yourself. that is not correct for some people. so already your telling me that everyone has a degree or grade of excellence or worth within theirselves and knows how to organize and interpret it without the use of school. There are several people in this world, all types, and you cannot tell me that without school, these people can function perfectly in everday life."	PRO	265
265	S95535bbc-Ade6a2e58	The Electoral College is a logical system	Many say that we are not a Democracy, But a Republic, But actually we are both. A Republic is a form of Government. Democracy is the method of selecting the representatives of that government, People don't understand that. Because people particularly Americans tend to be stupid. If we are not a Democracy then why dowe even bother with elections? In order to have a proper election, We need to insure it is represetative, One man one person one vote. The electoral college is an onerous anachronism from an undemocratic and backwards era >	CON	266
266	Sf6f74b-A7533954e	The Electoral College is Misrepresentative	I would like to refer my opponent to the 2000 general election. Even though the democrat (and possible communist) Al Gore received more vote than his opponent the Republican (and devout christian) George W. Bush he lost the election because because George W. Bush had won more states. How can the electoral college be representative of the American people when it fails to elect the President more Americans voted for?	PRO	267
267	Sb27f930b-A69a317ba	The electoral college should be abolished	This will be a debate on the United States electoral college system, used in Presidential elections. I will be arguing that this system should be abolished and replaced with a system of direct popular vote. Burden of proof lies on me. First round is for acceptance only. Second round is for opening arguments. Third and Fourth rounds are for responses. Final round is for conclusions.	PRO	268
268	Sc1b11a97-A32dfda03	Free Education	"In dealing with Education, what is the meaning of free? Does that mean our educators get paid? Do the buildings get maintained for free, what about the property taxes of the land that the buildings sit on? What about the books? The point is someone is paying for what you would call ""free education"", most likely the inference is the tax payer. Now if you agree that free education is a good things than do you agree that the taxes on long island and New York State in general are affordable, and conducive to a thriving economic environment? Nobody can afford the taxes on long island and New York right now, which is why we are in such a depressed economic situation right now. Point being nothing in life is free. Most of the countries are going broke right now except western Germany, because in the E.U. health care is ""free"" retirement benefits are ""free"", the whole E.U. is on the verge of collapse bc of the free benefits from the government."	CON	269
269	Se6ffa8fb-A81ed0f7e	University education helps society	Free education enables everyone to have the opportunity to study. This means there would be more people going to universities. The outcome of this would be that in our society, more people will have higher degrees which means would be more people who are doctors, lawyers, nonprofit workers, teachers, business leaders etc. This has positive benefits. More doctors means more people who treat those who are sick. More teachers means, better quality of education for students. More nonprofit workers means more people who are trying to help and raise money for those who need it. When the number of people who get an education rises, the number of people who benefit from that persons education also rises. Therefore, free education will benefit our society because there will be more highly educated individuals who have the education and ability to help others.	PRO	270
270	S9f212a53-A91fb5cab	Voucher Education	I get it. Competition is a great tool in the business market. The mistake that you're making is that business models yield money and their ultimate goal is to bring about more money. The school system is not supposed to work like that. It is intended to yield success and bring about further success. These are two fundamentally different goals and require two fundamentally different approaches. I know that money is involved in the path to success but you can both make and lose money and not have any success at all. This is particularly apparent in sports. The Houston Texans had a $57.6 million profit during the 2005 season, but finished with a winning percentage of just 12.5%. On the other hand, the New York Knicks lost $39 million that same year and only won 28% of their games. I'm not saying that sports success and school success is the same. I am simply pointing out that proper spending yields money, not wins, not losses, not A's or F's; just money! Instead of focusing on the open market, how about comparing education to another indebted government system, the Post Office. The US Postal Service has ZERO competition! And before you bring up UPS or FedEx, know that with the exception of a few certified documents, they send parcels and packages, not mail. Mail goes to the post office, always has and always will. This system is completely funded by the government with the exception of money made through stamps and postage and I think everyone can agree that it will never make money. But the goal is to get mail from point A to point B and in that, it has increased its success exponentially since its establishment by George Washington in 1792. The education system, similarly, will never profit but we are epically failing in educating our youth. This makes the entire system a giant depreciating asset and that is a major problem! We have already deduced that the money we are spending toward education is being used inefficiently. Whether money is given as a voucher or a grant or tuition or an annual budget, it's just dollars and cents until it yields success. It's time that we start getting a return on the money that we contribute on a yearly basis. All I can see in this proposal is more of the same things packaged up in a little voucher ribbon. We need a complete overhaul now!	CON	271
271	S30a568aa-Aeec1a001	Public vs Private Education	"Although private education gives you these ""additional benefits"" it is mainly because the students parents are paying for it. Bottom line is if you can afford private education you should most definitely take that opportunity because it will be better in the long run. But if a family or set of parents cant afford this ""private education"" a public education is better because ot s always there and always a opportunity of one self. In conclusion a public education is offered to the public while a private education is offered to the more ""privileged""."	PRO	272
272	S93ca0001-Ad9495b4c	The Humanities are an important part of any Education Curriculum	"Thanks Pfalcon. I certainly will bring my A-game ;) FRAMEWORK: I readily concede that certain elements of the humanities serve as useful tools in teaching younger students literacy and basic cultural awareness. I will be focusing on showing why the humanities are not important in secondary and college-level education, which composes a substantial amount of education curricula and is thus sufficient to negate the resolution. I think my opponent will agree that the purpose of education is to prepare students for their lives ahead of them; what exactly this would entail is up for debate-- I maintain that such preparation would be centered around developing students' critical thinking skills, the basis of widely-used occupational skills, and the general ability to compete in the global marketplace. My opponent is free to contest any of that, of course. With that established, my case is built around how knowledge obtained from humanities courses in school rarely is of any use in the average adult's everyday life, whether on the job, in social events, or while voting. Obviously, such knowledge cannot be considered 'of great value' to education, which is geared towards providing practical benefits to students. The notion that the study of the humanities has a very limited scope in terms of ensuring students financial security is relatively uncontroversial-- there are just not many high-demand occupations in which knowledge of the humanities can be of aid. Based on a survey of various occupations conducted by US News, which ranked the best jobs based on factors like industry growth, median salary, and employment rate, there are only 2 occupations which are even vaguely related to the humanities in the top fifty, with both of them being teaching jobs (http://money.usnews.com...). It is quite clear that in this respect, the humanities provide extremely minimal value to education. Since a student's occupation is bound to be a rather large part of their future, this observation makes it quite implausible that the humanities could still be considered important to education. Another focus of education is teaching students *how* to learn and developing their critical thinking skills. Some would claim that studying the humanities is a valuable tool for fostering such ability, but that is easily countered by pointing out that virtually any subject can be used as a tool to teach such skills. Arguably, science and math are much a much better means for achieving that end, since they very directly apply the principles of research, critical analysis, and logical problem-solving. Cross-apply the observation that hey also have useful career applications, and it becomes obvious that they are preferable to the humanities. Advocates of the liberal arts also claim that the humanities are necessary for the development of cultural awareness. However, this is rather circular logic; the humanities are defined as 'the study of culture', so it's no better than saying ""you need to study the humanities so that you can know about the humanities!""-- we are given no reason in the first place for why the average adult needs to be culturally aware to the extent that high school and university humanities classes require. The amount of awareness needed to properly function in everyday life is naturally obtained simply by living in and actively participating in society; that is the whole idea of a culture-- it is a set of customs & traditions so deeply ingrained into a society that it can be learned simply by being a part of it. Having an in-depth knowledge of a culture's fine arts is unnecessary, and so are the humanities classes which attempt to provide such knowledge. CONCLUSION: I have thoroughly shown that the humanities generally do not provide any value to students in preparing them for their future, and thus, given the purpose of education, the humanities are not important at all to the curricula of secondary schools and universities (which are included in ""any education curriculum""). The resolution is negated. I look forward to Pfalcon's opening arguments :D"	CON	273
273	Sd0a8ad59-A2d99e575	Animal Testing for non-medical reasons. Are the deaths worth it>	My argument is still the same as before. Animal testing can be good for humans, medical or not, so why ban it? Thats the crux of my argument. Animals not having inherent rights is secondary. In this world of life against life, humans are worth more than our animal brethren.	PRO	274
274	Se6ffa8fb-Af1acd5a7	If everyone has a degree, then what is it worth? The answer – nothing	Even now, pretty much everyone can get into a university in England with their 3 D’s and an E. So just think how many more of these people would attend uni if it was free. The numbers would be ridiculous. If everyone in the future can go to university for free and come out with some sort of degree in something whether it be origami or the science of superheroes. It’s the age old question of if everyone has one, what is it worth?	PRO	275
275	S93ca0001-Af9e3ba8c	The Humanities are an important part of any Education Curriculum	Thanks for the debate, Uchi. It should be fun. Introduction Well, since my opponent has deigned to concede lower education, it seems we both will be discussing secondary and post-secondary education. Originally, my arguments were going to span the entirety of education, but this makes things a little bit easier on me. Cultural Awareness As expected, Uchi has hit on one of my points, though he seems to be jumping the gun a little bit. The fact that one must study the humanities in order to know about the humanities seems blatantly obvious. The only one to learn about a topic is to study it. For example, if one wishes to have any in-depth knowledge about the economy, studying economics would serve them quite well. I do think Uchi has hit on something very important, though. Why is cultural awareness even important? For that matter, what is cultural awareness? “Cultural awareness” refers to the ability to understand and somewhat appreciate other cultures, beliefs, and traditions. Given the number of people of different backgrounds that one can and will meet over the course of a lifetime, the capacity to “walk in their shoes” seems to be a powerful skill, both in the workforce (particularly cross-cultural interactions) and in personal interactions. Creative Expression This one is more related to the music, art, theatre and the like. Creativity is considered by some to be a dying commodity. While there is some creative leeway in math and science, this is much more accessible within the humanities. The reason creative expression is of importance has less to do with school and more to do with problem solving. Odd as it might seem, problem-solving is not relegated to math and science. In fact, the problem-solving that we experience in day-to-day life is not the kind that is given by math and science. Rather, it is the kind that is given by the humanities. The reason I single out music, art, theatre and such is mainly because these are among the more challenging areas of the humanities. Those things that some people are naturally gifted in, but that most people must work at. It is in finding something to present or perform that a student is actively problem solving. There is no “right” answer nor any “proper” method. Each of these is found most often in math and science. This is analogous to day-to-day life, where we only know that we desire a certain result, but are unsure of the “proper” way to go about it. Key Skills While one could easily wonder why study the words of old dead men and women is worth anything, an astute observer would notice evidence of what I shall term “cross-training”. “Cross-training” is the process by which one takes what they have learned in one area and utilizes it elsewhere. Example: In literature classes at the secondary and post-secondary level, there something termed “close-reading”. This is when someone reads a passage, essay, book, etc., and produces from this reading an evidence-backed analysis of the author’s work, ranging from themes to style devices. Arguably, this very basic skill is of enormous import to the academic humanities. Evidence-backed assertions are the kind of thing websites like this promote. This is key to literature and history; the very nature of these fields is evidence finding and claim-supporting. This relates to day-to-day expectations. For example, when buying a car, a salesperson might suggest a particular make and model, for some unknown reason. A savvy shopper will do a bit of research on their own. While one could gain research skills simply through repeated trial and area, history and literature classes are research-city, so to speak. That is to say, history and literature classes are among the more research heavy areas, at least immediately after high school. In such classes, students will engage in intensive research, which then would then translate into a penchant for not taking claims at face value 100% of the time. While not every student will be an obsessive fact-checker, the results are not as important as the goal. Which is to say, the curriculum is geared toward a particular goal, although that goal will not always be reached. Critical thinking Imagine a businessman, call him James. James wants to own his own business doing consultations for other companies. His experience has been with daycare services. James is used to offering guidance as relates to childcare guidelines, labor costs, supplies costs, curriculum, and such. This is a lucrative occupation; James manages to pay all of his bills, as well as save a few hundred dollars every month. One could say James is in a good spot. Until someone in a new industry approaches James for a consultation, and his regular clients no longer need him. Being faced with a new situation, requiring a new process for applying his skills, James is left at a disadvantage. The above attempt at an analogy works on my opponents’ assumption that science and math are “a much better means for achieving that end”, in regards to critical thinking. The term “critical thinking”, though ambiguous, refers to a very specific mode of thought processing. The term “fluid intelligence” most closely matches what we mean when discussing critical thinking. “Fluid intelligence” is the “The deliberate but flexible control of attention to solve novel “on the spot” problems that cannot be performed by relying exclusively on previously learned habits, schemas, and scripts” [1]. That is a long and drawn out way of saying that a person is capable of thinking through a new problem without thinking entirely about previous experiences. Math and science are essentially schema-based. There are equations upon equations that one essentially plugs values into. In secondary and post-secondary schooling, experiments are minimal and mainly for the purposes of solidifying previously learned material, and new equations are rarely found. Math and science rely quite heavily on process of elimination. In traditional math and sciences classes (those one can expect in a high school or college curriculum), one can easily rely on a process of elimination. With quadratic equations, for example, one need only learn the various ways to get to the factors of x in order to actually to there. In the humanities, such black and white processes do not exist. Much like in life, one must gather together what information there is to have and make a decision based on that information, in the hopes that the information available is sufficient. A direct definition of “Critical Thinking” is offered here [2]. “Critical thinking is the intellectually disciplined process of actively and skillfully conceptualizing, applying, analyzing, synthesizing, and/or evaluating information gathered from, or generated by, observation, experience, reflection, reasoning, or communication, as a guide to belief and action. In its exemplary form, it is based on universal intellectual values that transcend subject matter divisions: clarity, accuracy, precision, consistency, relevance, sound evidence, good reasons, depth, breadth, and fairness”. Here, we see terms that I have already mentioned or that are pieces of what I have already mentioned. Sound evidence, good reasons, clarity, relevance, depth, breadth and fairness are all values of critical thinking that one becomes adept at discerning through some level of education in the humanities. Whether one really needs three or four classes of it is up for debate, but that they should be included is less so. Conclusion Argument 1 1. The goal of education is to prepare students for life. 2. Life includes a level of cultural interaction. 3. Cultural interactions are made easier by a knowledge of cultural differences. 4. The humanities offer a knowledge of cultural differences. 5. Thus, the humanities make cultural interactions easier. 6. Hence, the humanities prepare students for life. Argument 2 1. The goal of education is to prepare students for life. 2. Life entails novel experiences. 3. Novel experiences are key to education in the humanities. 4. Hence, the humanities offer training in novel experiences. 5. Since the humanities offer training in novel experiences, students are better prepared for novel experiences. 6. Thus, the humanities prepare students for life. While I would never argue that humanities should be the only thing we are educated in, I have offered arguments to the effect that they should be included in any education curriculum, particularly because they offer things that are either not offered by math and science or because they do a better job than math or science at offering the same thing. I look forward to your rebuttals Uchi. [1] http://www.iqscorner.com... [2] http://www.criticalthinking.org...	PRO	276
276	S1db3eaf8-A4567d15	The quality of education suffers when university education is free	State funding of higher education is actually beneficial to universities. It allows universities to get on with their research and teaching without worrying about competing and spending money on getting students to attend. The money wasted in pursuit of high numbers of students is thus saved, as the state can tend to the needs of universities.1 The idea that the state will simply neglect its universities is silly, because society and therefore the state, relies on having capable professionals whose qualifications have value.  [1] Greatrix, Paul. 2011. “University Isn’t Just a Business—and the Student Isn’t Always Right”. The Guardian. Available: https://www.theguardian.com/higher­education­network/higher­education­network­blog/2011/mar/14/students­asconsumers  ​	CON	277
277	Sea22c804-A3c0480a5	The Electoral College Needs to be Replaced	I have rolled up my sleeves for this one- so, let's do it. I'm looking forward to this to be quite honest. I'll do what I can to be respectful, factual, honest, and attentive during this debate. Good luck to you and have a good day. My position statement: The electoral college does not need to be replaced and is sufficient the way it is, today.	CON	278
278	S4a5c09b0-A4abfc34b	Radical Life Extension technology is worth pursuing.	"Availability. That is my main issue. Obviously the demand would be high if this technology was created, and supply would be low considering the fact that the technology would be so new. Who would recieve the technology? My vote would be for the wealthy, because it's indefinite that this supply and demand aspect will cause the price of this technology to sky rocket. Do the wealthy deserve life extension more than the poor just because they can pay for it? I think not. It would cause a global controversy because those who couldn't pay for said ""treatment"" would still be dying while these wealthy, possibly undeserving, high class, individuals are living on with no worries. As it would be a great idea or concept to live on beyond the average lifespan, the aspect of worth would be excercised to a high extent. How do you tell if one life has more worth than another? What if said technology gets into the wrong hands? This is a radical statement, but what if a terrorist or a serial killer got ahold of this technology? Do we really want people like that living beyond their time? Is it worth it is my next question. Would it change the process of aging? Many issues come with age, by the age of 60 a large percent of beings are suffering from different illnesses and physical disadvantages. If we continue to live and add on years, will the same fate come? Will we still suffer these awful circumstances such as arthritis or loss of sight and hearing? Or would it get worse? Would extending the age in which we live just add on to more of our physical issues? Now, I do have some aggreements with this proposal. I see as to how this may appear humane, you get to live on to see your great grandkids possibly great great grandkids. Maybe even beyond that. You get more experience than you would have. Christians may disagree though, some do believe that god has a set plan for them. That their days are numbered by him. I don't have that argument but it will be apparent. That brings me to my next question. What if death isn't really death? We don't know what is beyond our earthly time and some will argue that death takes them to a better place and extending their life on earth is wrong."	CON	279
279	Sc7831446-A4567d15	The quality of education suffers when university education is free	State funding of higher education is actually beneficial to universities. It allows universities to get on with their research and teaching without worrying about competing and spending money on getting students to attend. The money wasted in pursuit of high numbers of students is thus saved, as the state can tend to the needs of universities.1 The idea that the state will simply neglect its universities is silly, because society and therefore the state, relies on having capable professionals whose qualifications have value.  [1] Greatrix, Paul. 2011. “University Isn’t Just a Business—and the Student Isn’t Always Right”. The Guardian. Available: https://www.theguardian.com/higher­education­network/higher­education­network­blog/2011/mar/14/students­asconsumers  ​	CON	280
280	Sfad66533-Abba1861b	No money for education	Just keep the buildings maintained and let the people use them and manage their use. If they want to just play bingo that is just fine. Why don't the universities cancal classes and just have $port$ since it is what they have done anyway by cutting off funding and letting Monsanto tell Berkeley to fire a prof who showed that there might be adverse effects to GE. Big business is telling us what to teach and ruining any chance of getting an education. We need to free education and give it back to the people.	PRO	281
281	Sfe4e6726-A3fa42490	Resolved: Affirmative action should be practiced in college admissions.	"I stand in negation of the resolution. Resolved: Affirmative action should be practiced in college admissions. === DEFINITIONS === I'll agree with the definition presented, however I'd like the focus to be more on racial affirmative action... === OBSERVATIONS === O1: To negate the resolution, CON need not show that AA should be practiced in ALL college admissions. If it should not be practiced in a majority of college admission, then the resolution is negated. O2: I'll agree with O2 adding that PRO cannot simply support an implementation that would allow a negligible number of students in college... In other words, no comparative advantage cases. O3: I'll agree with O3 as well. O4: I completely disagree with O4. I ask that the judges look at the round as a whole and if need be, actually create a flow. PRO has to prove AA should be practiced, CON has to prove that AA shouldn't be practiced, and dropped arguments should be irrelevant as far as your decision. I assume that the points made by both sides will be substantial and thus dropping one would concede a very important point, but to auto-loss CON for dropping one argument is irrational (however I don't plan on dropping an argument...) === CONTENTIONS (re: means refutation) === re: C1: ""An eye for an eye leaves the whole world blind."" And that's essentially what AA does. AA actually worsens discrimination because it devalues the meaning of being at college for a minority. Imagine, if you will, a little scenario. Two minorities (just because racial is the most obvious form of AA) are talking to each other on a college campus. Person one got into said college because they graduated with a 4.2 GPA, got a 36 on their ACT, was throughly involved in their school and community, and they were an all around good citizen. Person 2, however, got into said college simply because they were a minority... now because this is true, those on campus think all the people of this race got into said college simply because of skin color and discrimination increases, not decreases C2: AA HURTS THOSE IT AIMS TO HELP. If a school practiced AA, that fact would, without fail, reach the ears of the public. Those who are accepted simply because they qualify for AA help would lose all value of their degree, regardless of actual ability. Sticking with the minority theme, say a minority decides they want to be a doctor. They apply at a college, where they're accepted under an AA policy. They make it through college, maybe not with flying colors, but well enough to get through. Now, this person is in debt from student loans and thus doesn't have the money to open a practice. They decide to join a practice with someone, but no one will hire them. Why? Well, they only got into medical school because they qualified for AA benefits. Otherwise, they'd have never been in medical school and consequently never would have become a doctor. C3: ACCEPTING PEOPLE FOR THE SAKE OF ACCEPTING PEOPLE IS WRONG. America is a country based on ingenuity. Take away that ingenuity, and you've got another subservient country. Each college can only accept so many people. When we start reserving spots for those who may not be worthy, at the expense of those who are worthy, we detract from American ingenuity and become a country that simply manufactures the products others designed. What happens when those products become worthless? That's right... unemployment, which worsens the economy. We need those ingenious people to create new ideas and products to ensure our country prospers for generations to come. === I'm fine with new contentions and I agree it's not abusive as long as you don't at an overwhelming number of contentions. As long as it realistically fits in my character limit, it's fine. I, as well, look forward to the debate, and my best regards to my opponent as well."	CON	282
282	S5dd7d039-Ad869d05c	We should abolish the electoral college	"First, I would like to point out the their are faithless electors. This means that the opinion of millions of people is ignored for the opinion of one, stubborn elector. This, in itself, should not be allowed, as, since all Americans should be equal, one person""s vote should not count more than any other""s. Unfortunately, this is not illegal, and while there are minor punishments in some states, according to National Archives and Records Administration, ""There is no Constitutional provision or Federal law that requires Electors to vote according to the results of the popular vote in their states."" This that many electors can vote for whoever these choose and there will be no consequences. According to fairvote.org, ""There are 29 states (plus the District of Columbia) that require faithfulness issue a small variety of rarely enforced punishments for faithless electors, including fines and misdemeanors."" This means that 21 states do not have punishments for faithless electors, and the ones that do only have small punishments that Electors may think are worth more the the president of the United States. And it is not like this is a small problem. Also according to fairvote.org, ""Since the founding of the Electoral College, there have been 157 faithless electors."" That is a lot of votes which have been made null and void. These selfish 157 electors nullified the votes of millions of American citizens, and many more can do so in the future. According to the 26th amendment, ""The right of citizens of the United States, who are eighteen years of age or older, to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any State on account of age."" This means it is illegal to deny an American citizen, over the age of 18, the right to vote; however, faithless electors are denying people's right to vote and; therefore, are breaking the 26th amendment. This means that not matter if the electoral college is abolished or not, being a faithless voter has to become illegal and have severe consequences. Second, the electoral college system is outdated. According to the Federalist Papers, ""It was desirable that the sense of the people should operate in the choice of the person to whom so important a trust was to be confided. This end will be answered by committing the right of making it, not to any preestablished body, but to men chosen by the people for the special purpose, and at the particular conjuncture. It was equally desirable, that the immediate election should be made by men most capable of analyzing the qualities adapted to the station, and acting under circumstances favorable to deliberation, and to a judicious combination of all the reasons and inducements which were proper to govern their choice. A small number of persons, selected by their fellow-citizens from the general mass, will be most likely to possess the information and discernment requisite to such complicated investigations."" This means that one of the reasons the electoral college was created was so that the smarter people, or the rich, powerful, land-owning, white males, could make all the decisions while the rest of the country thought they were living in a democracy. We say we live in a democracy, and we need to stand by what we say. We need to abolish this system that gave political figures more powerful. Third, we can easily get presidents that the majority of Americans do not want. In fact, of the 57 presidential elections which have taken place, 5 have been won by a candidate who did not win the majority of the votes. Also, according to Huffington Post, ""According to a study done by Jesse Ruderman, """"A presidential candidate could be elected with as a little as 21.8% of the popular vote by getting just over 50% of the votes in DC and each of 39 small states. This is true even when everyone votes and there are only two candidates. In other words, a candidate could lose with 78.2% of the popular vote by getting just under 50% in small states and 100% in large states."""" This means that a candidate could beat out another candidate who got the overwhelming majority; in fact, the location of a candidate's supporters matters much more than the quantity; which brings me to my final point. Lastly, not every vote is equal. There are two parts to this: the amount of votes the state which the voter live in gets and whether or not the voter lives in a swing states. First, the amount of votes of the state a voter is in makes a big impact. Unless the election is extremely close, no one cares about who Alaska voted for. What they do care is who Florida, New York, Texas, Pennsylvania, and all the other states with a large amount of electoral college vote for. Candidates are less likely to campaign in states with low electoral votes and their votes often don""t play as large of a role in an election than someone who lives in Florida. According to Deseret News, the only election where a state like Alaska would have mattered was the election between John Adams and Thomas Jefferson, which is probably because there were less electoral votes back then (138). Even the second closest election, which also only had a total of 138 electoral votes, would""ve needed more than Alaska to change the outcome. That means if Florida one side by one vote, and Alaska won the other side without any vote""s for Florida""s side, Florida""s side would be winning by 26 electoral votes. Second, whether or not the state a voter lives in is a swing state also makes a huge impact. For example, unless the citizens of Massachusetts change or the values of the democratic party change drastically, Massachusetts is always going to vote for the democratic candidate. This means neither a republic nor a democratic voter will have a say in the outcome of their states"" election is already pre-determined. On the other hand, in a swing state like New Hampshire, every vote counts, as the most recent democratic candidate, Hillary Clinton, won New Hampshire by about 1,500 votes. That is an extremely small different, and while the number of electoral college votes may seem small, in a swing state like Florida, with 29 electoral votes, it makes a huge impact. We live in a new era where we realize that all people are equal, and in this new era, we need to give the right to vote to the people, not to an outdated system created to benefit the rich."	PRO	283
283	Sc1b61f69-A917f3226	Mixed-sex dormitories should be the only dormitory type permitted at higher education institutes	"I will be defending the resolution that mixed-sex dormitories should be the only dormitory type permitted at higher education institutes. Higher Education: education or learning at a college or university.(1) If I may also add that this means above the age of 18, as I don't want to debate silly semantics about age. First round is for acceptance only. (1) http://www.merriam-webster.com... Important: BOP is shared. This is something I say for all debates I instigate (as of 6/27/2014). It makes voters vote on what is presented and not look for a semantic reason to vote against or for someone. Ideally, the BOP is on Pro, but its not possible to prove anything beyond doubt. So in effect if we are to apply BOP to any debate then Pro automatically wins. By sharing BOP, I make the debate arguments open to a more rational non semantic vote. And I avoid the terrible ""Lest I remind you BOP lies on Pro in this debate, and they have not met their BOP""."	PRO	284
284	Sa60e8842-A2377701d	Education Reform	"By education reform, I do mean reform at the elementary level, as you have inferred. 1. My opponent has not proven the link between the rise in the GDP and the education system. The chronic effect on our stocks (economy) is nearly always growth, regardless of circumstances. In addition, your link covered a very limited time span in regards to the economy (1 year). http://datek.smartmoney.com... A final comment: yes, life skills are bogus in regards to business. If you're negotiating a stock price, distributing dividends, or buying a corporation, friendship is useless unless you want to addle the brain of your fellow business partner and clock him over the head with an oxygen tank. In business, the world is A's and B's, 1's and O's. 2. My examples are in direct consequence of the education system. Jill succeeded because she found extra-curriculum material to prep her for university classes, and Fred didn't. Having a more conventional mind, Fred would have been just as knowledgeable, should the curriculum have contained electives such as what you are experiencing, yet at a lower level. 3. This contention requires no evidence, if the educational system resembled the real world, the curriculum would have more relevance. My second, ""unsourced"", claim requires no source: I consider the teaching of life skills (that you acknowledged) over-emphasis, as they have relatively little importance in the real world, compared with their teaching. 4. Notice the phrasing: ""real world"". Education and the real world are disconnected. 5. Excuse my confusing clarification. The topic was Elementary reform from the beginning. Opposing Contention #1. I shall proceed to explicitly refute this contention. Your link provides that happiness does not increase beyond about $12,000/year. However, in all middle class households, the phrase dreaded by the masses of working men ""we can't afford it"". Money serves as a buffer, reducing stress and providing for mistakes such as The Sub-prime Mortgage Crisis. See link: http://en.wikipedia.org... Opposing Contention #2. Your example of real world life skills was previously refuted. The elective classes you are taking do not exist at the elementary level. Opposing Contention #3. This contention is entirely based on improvements in material knowledge, which is not the only relevant teaching to prepare for the real world."	PRO	285
285	Sccfc1c03-A678d07de	Localize Education- get rid of the Department of Education and Common Core	Here are the facts: The Department of Education exists within the federal government Common Core is controled by the federal government Although Con says the federal government only controls 12%, and the rest is held by local levels, Common Core sets standards and regulations on those local levels. The federal government can create as much standards as they want, as long as the Department of Education still exists, giving them complete control over the local levels. The federal government is therefore largely involved in Education, going against the Tenth Amendment, which violates states rights. Cutting The Department of Education could save plenty of money for a nation deep in debt. Con mentioned all the local levels of Education, but I think Con has a misunderstanding of what local education really means. Local Education takes the subject of Education out of the federal government entirely Use this as an example to express the TRUE need of state power in Education: I live in New Hampshire. It snows it the winter. Someone has to plow the roads. The state plows plow the state roads. If DC had to come plow my street, the quality of plowing would be far worse. Pro expresses that localization = better quality States get limited benifits from the feds but yet they still have to pay tasks for their departments. Con says the US already has localized Education and education would get worse by getting ride of federal regulations. The truth is it would make education better. This Is because states would be able to go off on these standards, teaching specialized classes and electives instead of sitting in Algebra for the 3rd year in a row. The major problem with federal education is they make rules without seeing how they affect people. Pro = dynamic education Con = static education	PRO	286
286	S7239d5ee-Ab1228a80	Education is perception of skills	"I think you are changing the topic by emphasizing more on ""quality begins with perception""; rather paying attention on ""education is perception of skills."" I just meant that skills and any type of perception (like: educational perception, etc.) have no connectivity at all. For proving this I clarified the difference between quality, perception and skills… Again I repeat: perception is required for quality, but skill is not a quality because it is ability. Any ways, for your clarifications I solve your doubts on ""quality begins with perception."" Let me explain this by a short (but true) story: In the days long past, Ferrari were considered to be the ultimate quality cars. Now, our hero, he was a rich farmer. He went to Ferrari and paid the money and got himself a nice shiny car; he than drove it, did not like the quality and went to Ferrari and told that his car was flop! May be Ferrari hadn't had a good day and he insulted our hero. The hero got angry, got a lot of designers, poured lots of money and gave birth to first Lamborghini; for Lamborghini, Ferraris weren't of good quality and so he came up with something new! So you saw, it was the perception of hero about Ferraris, and he came up with something more qualitative than Ferraris. Thus his perception led him to discover a new quality! Thus quality begins with perception is not my opinion but a fact or truth! Well, coming back to our topic: education is perception of skills; education, according to me, cannot perceive skills! And as I said before, education is only a readymade dish; it is up to us what we eat and what we don't. We have to practice, work hard, plan, and manage the time and passionate about what we learnt in schools. Thus education is the food which is accepted by perception but digested and assimilated by the above factors to generate skills. Thus smart work, inner strength, planning, team work, readiness towards work, passion, experience, patience, perseverance, etc perceives, generates skills. Education is thus only the amount of data (raw material) that is put into our mind but to convert this data to information or skills (final product), above factors are necessary. Thus we can even say that education is perception to those above factors and not the skill. Education perceives the raw material which are essential to get final product i.e. skills. We could even say that education is, up to certain extent, is becoming a burden. It snatches away the beautiful moment of life: childhood. ""Education is the backbone of nation, But in the name of education, They are grinding our backbones, They are blending our souls, They are leaking our activities, They are making us robots!"" I again ask you: it is so rightly said that essence of true education lies in drawing out very best in you; but does the present system of education lives up to this ideal?"	CON	287
287	S50de86d9-A2da769bd	Free college is a terrible idea.	All points extended. This concludes my part of the debate. I now ask the voters, in the sense that I have debated with no worry of rebuttals and nothing to stand against my arguments except two forfeits, that you vote for me. I also open up my arms to my opponent in hopes that they will use the opportunity to post their arguments. I'm very interested in seeing how they were, or would prove that free college is a good idea. At this point I have nothing further to say. I thank both my opponent and the voters for their time.	PRO	288
288	Sf6f74b-Ad3b69f78	The Electoral College is Misrepresentative	I thank my opponent for this debate. Although I do not proclaim to be a political expert, I trust that it is plain to see where my opponent is incorrect. There is no misrepresentation in the electoral college system at all. In fact, I recall from watching several presidential elections in my time that a large map appears on television, detailing exactly how and where the electoral votes are allocated. The representation is quite clear and not misleading in the slightest. http://en.wikipedia.org...(United_States) New York, for example, has 31 electoral votes, and California has 55. There is no misrepresentation. I await my opponent's rebuttal. Thank you audience and thank you to my opponent.	CON	289
289	S1db3eaf8-A371aa55	university education should be free	The quality of education suffers when university education is free	CON	290
290	S73548fe7-A8f3784f5	colonization of the moon would fail and not be worth it to humanity	I accept. funny this is the policy debate topic, so I have a lot of it even though I run astriod mining. 1. moon has He3 which is rare on Earth. He3 can slow down the cancer (not stop it) 2. Hegemony, the United States needs to keep being a world power and if we don't colonize the moon first China or India will and surpass us as a world power. 3. steping stone to Mars. 4. Earth is overpopulated 5. costs will be worth it and easily paid for. He3 and endorsements can easily pay back the costs and turn into a benefit.	CON	291
291	Sed52489a-A4033da46	Capping admissions is a sub-optimal method of improving the value of university education.	It is essentially analogous to DeBeers horading diamonds to artificially raise the price of the few diamonds it does make available to the market. In the example, those in favor of the proposition would claim that rising diamond prices are indicative of higher quality--any price gain over inflation relects a greater demand for a diamond. The problem here is that the proponents are focusing on the individual diamond rather than the aggregate diamond market. Just as allowing more diamonds to hit the market would reduce prices, so does more university students reduce the relative value of a college education. However, the aggregate economy is left better off because more people are learning how to think at a much more productive level (essentially the main purpose of state-sponsered education to begin with). Further, I would argue that competitive pressures would encourage students to differentiate themselves in more creative and value-driven ways. In the United States, this is seen in the practice of obtaining internships over the summer, which have the added bonus of reducing transition costs that occur in the shift from the educational to employment environment.	PRO	292
292	S45570f76-A931f32cd	In the United States, the Electoral College should be abolished.	"I am going to rebut my opponent's case and defend my own. Defense 1. The example my opponent provides is a flawed example. Elections, unlike bullets, are mutually exclusive. A more apt example might be a coin flip or a dice roll, where more votes is equal to more weight on that side of the coin or dice. Votes can sway the Election one way or the other, but those who vote against the majority are wasting their time. 2.My opponent claims that larger states states in fact have more power in the popular vote because the larger states would decide all of the elections. This appears to be a reasonable concern until we look at the population distribution of the United States. Even if a candidate got the top 100 cities to unanimously vote for them, from titanic New York City all the way down to mighty Spokane, the elector would only receive 19.4% of the vote, not nearly enough to win the popular vote.Also my opponent claims that making the smaller states power makes it more democratic. This is clearly false. A democratic system has equal representation, not disproportionate representation. 3. My opponent makes two claims here, that the law prevent biased voting and that it is not practiced. However, since an objective court could prosecute electors on this issue, the hypothetical is the issue here. Also, my opponent still claims that removing democratic pillars for a good reason is just, but that is simply not true. Democracy is the best system, and should be incorporated in all possibilities. 4.My opponent claims that FPTP systems are better because of their simplicity. Simplicity is not a measure of effectiveness, and this argument should be disregarded. A simpler system is not always a better one. 5. My opponent misses the point of my fifth point. The reason (at least partially) for no third party victors in US history. The example of teleportation is not effective because teleportation is not a part of physics, and the laws of the universe would have to rewritten for it to occur. The Electoral College is not as major as these laws. 6.My opponent claims that the US shouldn't focus on being too democratic since it was never based on pure democracy. Yet, those democratic aspects that they mention are the aspects being damaged by the Electoral College. My opponent again claims the large states would remain supreme, but this is the same argument he made previously, and should be disregarded with the same evidence of population distribution. 7. My opponent claims that people in swing states have an incentive to be more educated voters because their votes are more important in an election. This means my opponent agrees, some people are more important than others in the Electoral College. This is a fundamental issue that cannot be stated enough. The breakdown of democracy comes from the idea that some people are more important than others. This line of reasoning goes against all of democracy. 8.My opponent claims since the territories don't pay federal income tax, they shouldn't get a vote. Yet, not only territories don't pay that tax. In 2013, 43% of households didn't pay federal income tax, mainly the working poor, the elderly, and veterans. They all have their right to vote, and unless they are suggesting taking away their vote, this argument doesn't come into play. Also, only American Samoa or Swain""s Island have non-citizenship, the rest the territories grant citizenship. Attack 1.My opponent cross applies his argument so cross apply my attack from my second point. 2.My opponent yet again conflates simplicity and effectiveness, and also claims, that the STV is too complex. STV is a simple system that simply shifts one candidate for a ranking system. For example, say in this last election someone loved Gary Johnson but knew he was going to lose. Instead of voting for a candidate they don't like, but one that could win, they could show their support for Gary by making him the top vote. 3. My opponent claims the Electoral College is good because the end justifies the means. This is not the same as their original argument, that it would take too much effort. This is therefor a new argument and should be treated as such. If the end justifies the means, end not being the correct one in 40% of the last 5 elections, shows the means bring the wrong ends. They also claim prohibition was unjust but refuse to see that the argument about Prohibition was the precedent for removing amendments to the Constitution 4. My opponent makes the same claim that the smaller states need the boost for it to be fair. Cross apply my previous attacks on this argument,while also seeing yet again the Electoral College is inherently anti-democratic by making some people count for more than others. 5.In the obvious victor argument my opponent claims that when the votes don't match the electorate, that is good because it is efficient. Yet, my opponent still shows the ugly side of the Electoral College in this statement, since that efficiency comes at the expense of democracy. That is the core aspect of this debate, whether or not it is better to have a democratic system or an efficient one (even if the system isn't actually efficient). In my round 3 speech, point 2, I also point out how close election can occur in the electoral college, which shows that the argument about higher efficiency isn't even necessarily true. It doesn't take a stretch of the imagination to imagine a race where someone won the popular vote, but lost the Electoral College. If the system is so efficient, then these problems would not occur. 6. My opponent claims they never committed a straw man, but that was the whole point of their sixth point. Their argument was the pro was against Federalism, and that is why the Electoral College is bad under the pro. Yet, as I have shown, the issues is not with its Federalism, but with the inequality and ineffectiveness of the system. In terms of the debate about the founding fathers, I never mentioned slavery, but only that they didn't believe in voting as a right in America for most people. The idea of voting is a Constitutional issue, via the 14 and 19th amendments, and so both points still remain. 7. My opponent conceded this point, while stating that this is not enough to tip the scales towards the pro. Yet, this is absolutely enough. Beyond Lincoln, there are four others who lost the popular and won the Electoral. (J. Q. Adams lost both but became president) Rutherford B. Hayes was president during the passage of the Chinese Exclusion Act, Benjamin Harrison was one of the most inactive presidents ever, Bush started the War on Terror, and Trump; who hasn't actually has a presidency to judge yet, but in the election cycle constantly enforced the ideas of Stop and Frisk as well as purposeful torture and killing of Middle Eastern Civilians. None of these, save for Lincoln, were good presidents, and so we have to see that this fundamentally shows by itself why the Electoral College should be abolished. 8. My opponent claims that I engaged in a straw man when I claimed the Electoral College doesn't stop rigged elections, but makes them systematic. Yet, there was no straw man, I simply showed there was proof to fulfill the burden. Also, I mentioned how undemocratic that way of thinking is, and my opponent has no response because it is inherently stripping some people of equal voting rights. In his voting points, my opponent admits the Electoral College is less democratic, and asks why that is so wrong. Yet, the democratic aspect of equal voting rights is at stake here, and that is indeed a part of the democracy of America. Also, my opponent claims that my case was ""lackluster"" because it was ""dismantled."" They confuse attacking an argument with defeating it, as I have shown none of their attack stick when under close inspection. His voting issues are flawed. Vote Pro b/c it: 1. Upholds Equal Voting Rights 2.Is more Efficient 3.Helps the country be better"	PRO	293
293	Sc7831446-A371aa55	university education should be free	The quality of education suffers when university education is free	CON	294
294	S30a568aa-Aa19bd603	Public vs Private Education	This is a good point, but you just defended my case and stomped on yours. A private education is more beneficial and most definitely offers additional opportunities. Also private schools offer a lot of packages that help you [ay for students. You do not have to be wealthy to attend a private school. There may be certain GPA requirements and work requirements but that also makes your student work harder and be more appreciative. It is better to attend these schools in many ways, public education just does not offer the education a private one does, that's final. Private education is becoming more and more popular because of these well known reasons.	CON	295
295	Sf49a4f1e-A1cd3d88c	An animal's life is worth just as much as a human's.	I apologize, I should have clarified; I mean to say that pets are equal in BOTH intrinsic value and instrumental value. I should have made this clear. I am saying that it is equally immoral to kill an animal as a human, and that an animal is worth just as much as a human. I am trying to make a point that animals should be treated as being worth just as much as a human. My first argument was centered around their instrumental value, but I have another argument which I will get to in a few moments. Now, I question some of your 4 statements at the end. While your 3rd and 4th statements were valid, I question the first two. 1. Many of us care about our pets just as much as our family, and consider them to be a part of our family. This is a relative statement, and cannot be called valid. 2. I would argue that this does not make a relationship with a pet any less special than a relationship with a friend or family member. Something that is more common or applies to everyone, is not necessarily better than something that applies to less people. Now, I have a second argument to make, which is that, overall, the human race has less moral fiber than dogs and cats. Dogs, in particular, are respectful, kind, and obedient, and cats display some of these qualities as well. Humans, while this does not apply to every single one of them, have a tendency to be selfish, disrespectful, defiant, and uncaring of consequences. Again, many humans are great people, but this is an overview of our general race, not its specific people. Humans have done much to both the Earth and its other species in its pursuit of luxury and comfort. Animals have contributed nothing to this. Who created pollution? It certainly wasn't a dog or cat, or any kind of an animal. Humans have destroyed habitats, captured animals just for people's entertainment, and drained most of the Earth's resources, all to benefit itself. Animals don't do any of these things. Animals are pure of heart and know their place, while humans seem to think they are the most important species in the world, when in reality they are the most destructive. What I am saying here is that we have no right to say that animals are less valuable than us. Their emotional ranges are equal to ours, and they, at least, aren't openly destructive of their environment and every living thing in it. A last note that I would like to add (this is entirely subjective), is that a relationship with a pet is something just a special as a relationship with a friend. A pet IS a friend, in fact, and can also be considered a part of a family. When I need somebody to talk to or interact with, I tend to turn to my dog and/or cat. And a lot of people feel the same. Their intrinsic value is something that is hard to argue because it is, as I said, subjective, but I have tried my best here. In conclusion (since this is the last round), from my first point, animals are quite helpful to us. I'll give you that they don't help us as much as we do, but they do help us. They also, at least, don't kill us for no reason like we do ourselves. From my second point, animals are purer of heart than we are and have more moral fiber considering that they don't destroy us and our world like we do theirs.	PRO	296
296	Saf208634-Aa98ffb33	This house would abolish the Electoral College	"Note: If you wish to accept this debate, please apply in the comment section or PM me. Full Resolution: This house would amend the United States Constitution to abolish the Electoral College. Structure: Round 1 - Acceptance only Round 2 - Opening arguments only Round 3 - Rebuttals Round 4 - Rebuttals/closing statements Definintions: Electoral College: ""The Electoral College is the name given to the process by which the American President is elected. Rather than a nationwide tally of votes being made, votes are counted state by state. States are allotted a certain number of ‘electors’ according to the size of their population. The candidate who wins the majority of votes in a particular state wins all the electors for that state with the candidate who has won over the most electors becoming President."" (1) Rules: 1. The burden of proof is shared 2. Images are permitted but videos are not 3. The character limit is 10,000 4. All arguments must be made in the debate. Any arguments that are mentioned in the comments should be ignored. If there are technical difficulties, sources may be posted in the comments or on a blank debate. 5. No Kritiks. 6. No semantics 7. No trolling, serious debater only! 8. All sources should be available for free of charge online. If you use a journal source that is behind a pay wall, it should be available to access at sci-hub.cc or be available for free elsewhere. Voting shall last 1 month and is open to any voter with an ELO score of 2,000 or more. Upon accepting this debate, con agrees to the definitions, rules, and structure that is provided. Violations of any of these rules shall result in the loss of conduct per minimum. Sources: 1. http://debatepedia.idebate.org..."	PRO	297
297	S45570f76-A8ed145ae	In the United States, the Electoral College should be abolished.	I will be refuting my opponent's points and making no excess claims 1:The Electoral College gives smaller states too much of a voice. My opponent claims that the Electoral College helps smaller states out by giving them a voice. However, the fact of the matter is their voices are too large. As I discussed in my second point, the smaller states are too powerful. In fact, it is theoretically possible to win 50.19% of the Electoral College, but only win 21.91% of the popular vote, because smaller states benefit so greatly. This is an incredibly disproportionate system, and one that needs to be solved in order for the United States to continue to call itself a democracy. 2: Single Transferable Voting, as opposed to First Past the Post, solves recounts If a recount is called, then obviously it was a close popular race. This means under a First Past The Post system, it would be hard to determine the winner. However, in Single Transferable Voting, recounts do not happen because races are no longer polarized into the two parties, forcing a recount. Instead, third party candidates have their members vote on their candidate, showing who they prefer out of the two main parties. Also, the idea of a close election can occur in the Electoral College. Within this system, since there is an even amount of electors, it is possible to have a tied race. There are provisions to deal with these circumstances, but to claim that the Electoral College cannot cause close races, is false. 3:Amending the Constitution before has occurred First, I would like to point out as the topic states 'should', the argument here is about our obligation, and not whether or not it would occur. However, this process to amending the Constitution would take the same amount of effort required to repeal Prohibition, which was also a part of the Constitution. Resources required would not be an issue, since 'should' and not 'will' is the word in the resolution. In the last statement, my opponent makes an argument that is vital to the round. They state twice since 1888, the popular vote and the Electoral College have disagreed. This is a large and severe problem in the election system. Yet, my opponent seems flippant about this point. Imagine if, by some strange quirk in the rules, there was a sport where the losing team could win. Would anyone still want that rule, or rather would the people solve the problem and make the system more fair for everyone. The issue is here, the presidency is much more important than a sports game. It can, in some instances, determine the course of history. Imagine how different the world would be if Al Gore was given the presidency. Regardless of whether or not his politics are the same as your own, it would be massively incorrect to state he would be the same president as George Bush. 4: The Electoral College is a Federal Law My opponent claims that the fact that State laws exist prove that there needs to be an Electoral College. Yet, my opponent misconstrues the Electoral College with a state-by-state popular vote. It is not the case. The Electoral College is not unjust because it separates the state votes, it is unjust because those states are not awarded proportionally. If there was a popular vote state by state, sovereignty of each state would still be kept. Federalism is not what opponents of the Electoral College disagree with, but the simple fact that the Electoral College does not hold one person to one vote. Instead, it allows people in smaller states to reign supreme over the people in the larger states. 5:This is in fact an argument for removing the Electoral College In cases such as the case my opponent brought up, the Electoral College took a race that could go either way and handily handed the presidency to a president who won more electors than he should. Another example could be in 2000, where George Bush lost the popular, but because he won more small states, he won the presidency. This is a clear example of an abuse of the Electoral College. A system as vital to America as voting should not have this much abuse surrounding the system. This is a system that needs to be abolished. 6:This is a Straw-man fallacy My opponent claims that removing the Electoral College is akin to dismantling one of the three branches of government. Although both of them come from similar thought process, the fact remains that the Electoral College is an ineffective and undemocratic system and does not delegitimize the Senate, which is a part of bicameralism as well as Federalism. Also, it is unwise to blindly follow any person, even the founder of a country. The fact that the forefathers never intended for people without property, non-white men, and women to vote shows that although they should be respected, they should not be blindly followed, especially when it comes to voting. 7:This is another logical fallacy My opponent claims that the Electoral College helped get an unpopular candidate into office, even though most people disliked him. Yet, the inverse is also true. If Jefferson Davis lost the popular, yet won the Electoral, then that would create more slavery. The fact that Lincoln was a good president is irrelevant, because another candidate, such as George Bush, was an example of a bad candidate becoming elected. Imperialistic ventures such as the Iraq war were only possible because of the Electoral College. Therefore, the case that it happened to elect the right president one time is luck of the draw. 8:No Evidence, and Undemocratic As stated, my opponent supplies no evidence that the Electoral College Rigs elections, so we can assume that it is incorrect. Also, this is an incredibly undemocratic way of looking at the system. If the argument that rigging elections is a bigger problem than essentially removing a person's vote, then that is a dangerously authoritarian way of looking at the Election. In short, that is the issue with the Electoral College. The issue is that the idea that not all votes matter in a state, or that some states should have their people count for more. These are issues that cannot be addressed by the con, because the Electoral College at a fundamental level is designed to tilt the scales in favor of smaller, more rural states. In Conclusion: Now that I have sufficiently shown my arguments outweigh his arguments, I now turn the stage over to the con and thank him for the excellent points he provided.	PRO	298
298	Sfad66533-A20c3909f	No money for education	"Finally, an argument? Alright, we'll address the ""open courseware argument"": 1) It is ""Web-based"" - further exacerbating the socioeconomic problems I discuss, NOT solving them. 2) It is non-unique to the PRO: The CON could implement the same plan, and have the exact same results as the PRO. AKA There is no unique benefit to the PRO's plan. Let's go over my case and his asserted rebuttals: C1: Depriving individuals of education deprives them of their human rights. ""Our education system does just that"" ??? This is, in the PRO's fashion, an unsubstantiated assertion. This is not a real argument, it is not a real block. Contention one still stands. C2: the PRO plan deprives individuals of education. ""Here's 1500 dollars."" Let's review: 1) Private school tuition is usually >1500 a year. 2) Those who don't own home computers + internet cannot afford to buy courseware, a computer + internet, thus it exacerbates the socioeconomic problems I talk about. Either way, the PRO plan hurts. C3: Student Development ""Those standards do not work."" Please, show me how? Test scores in the U.S. are the highest they have been in history - how is this a failing system? Moreover, how will YOUR plan solve it? Another assertion. This is not a block. C4: Socioeconomic problems. ""The current educational system is racist."" School vouchers, teachers being prioritized to problem schools, FREE SCHOOLING all help the poor and minorities. The PRO asserts that the current school system is racist, but fails to refute any of my logic. C5: Economics. Whatever, he misses the point, again. The problem is, with less people being taught under the PRO then the economy on the whole will suffer due to an uneducated labor force. IMPACTS: An impact is a point you vote off of. For example: ""The PRO's plan would benefit the economy."" is an impact. You have none of these. SOLVENCY: The PRO has a plan by definition... hahaha. By affirming the resolution, you're saying ""There should be no money for education"" - the resolution is the plan itself. Basically, your burden is to prove that by providing 0 tax dollars to the educative system the american people would be benefited. You have not done this: Let's recap the logic: C1/C2: By depriving individuals who cannot afford education of education, we deprive them necessarily of their human rights. 1,500 dollars is insufficient to afford private schooling or the technology-based schooling my opponent provides. He asserts that the school system now disenfranchises individuals but fails to substantiate this point. C3: Curriculums weed out the bad teachers. He says the current is flawed but, once more, fails to substantiate this point past a level of base assertion. There is no argument here by the PRO, the CON's logic is untouched. C4: Once more, the poor will become largely disenfranchised under a privately run educative system. He makes no refutation, just another assertion that the current system is racist. (??) This is another untouched point. C5: He misses the logic entirely. A stupider work force will not keep the U.S. competitive globally. Basically, when you debate (orally, in real life, on the internet) you are supposed to give REASONS for why what you say is true. Through all five contentions I have given you solid logic, which the PRO makes random assertions to try and beat. He has one speech left to JUSTIFY any of his claims, and unless he does that you would still look to the CON arguments as being legitimate. Not only that, but he gives you NO REASON for why the PRO fixes any of the problems of the current system, so that also must be done in order to justify voting for him. At this point in the round, he has no solvency and he has no warrants - I could write the lyrics to a hannah montana song in my next speech, and still probably win."	CON	299
299	S16199f60-Aafb1d952	Ending Education Subsidies	Since my opponent did not specifically define any terms, I would like to note that my primary arguments will be in defence of financial aid to college students, grants, loans, scholarships and so on.	CON	300
300	Sb1603109-Ac9319114	"Supporting Ron Paul is a fad and considered ""cool"" by college students."	"In a way, supporting any politician is a fad. A fad is short-lived enthusiasm for something without regards to its qualities. After the election is over and candidates win and lose, enthusiasm dies since there is no more campaigning to do. But without regards to quality is where you are wrong. To say that Ron Paul is gaining support because he has ""love"" on the Ron Paul revolution signs is a weak argument. I could say the same thing about any other candidate that had ""values"" or ""strength"" written on their campaign signs (which, the Ron Paul revolution sign isn't the official Ron Paul logo, but rather made entirely by grass-roots supporters.) Ron Paul's appeal is that he actually wants to talk about things such as philosophy of government, causes and effects. When terrorism is brought up he doesn't just spew out something stupid like, ""they are freedom haters,"" but actually uses history to explain why things are the way they are. Ron Paul actually brings up things you have to think about, while other candidates just pander to ""value"" voters on issues you ""feel."" Some of my friends used to not like Ron Paul, just assuming he was some fringe candidate. But after actually listening to him in the debate, they have come to favor him because of his ideas. I'm not so sure why college age kids would find it ""cool"" to support a gravely, 72 year old man, other than they thought his ideas were worth working for. My friends whom I never even imagined would care for any thing political have become staunch Paul supporters because they find him to have a certain candor about him and policies that make sense. If they were getting involved just to be cool, they would probably support Rudy Guiliani since he has been on Saturday Night Live. Besides, when I go to Ron Paul rallies, college students make up the small minority. So I think the Ron Paul ""Revolution"" is something real and seemingly magical and can almost bring hope back to the political process that this kind of grass roots activity exists."	CON	301
301	Sd0a8ad59-A5895e822	Animal Testing for non-medical reasons. Are the deaths worth it>	The avatar is actually the pokemon known as pidgeotto I believe. Or pidgey, I dunno :) First off I just want to clear up the definition of medical. I assume we're talking about science and medicine and medicinal stuff that helps humans or animals. The only reason I did the whole medical spiel in my first argument was to address your #1 and #2 arguments which were on research. Feel free to disregard them as we are not arguing over medical testing. Medical testing and our agreement on its virtues does bring up a valid point. It is alright to test animals if it helps humans medically. You stated in your second argument that a cow is often worth less than a human. If we simply made arguments based on what gave the most utility then if we could kill an animal to save a human in most circumstances this would be morally acceptable. Or what if we could kill a cow to save two cows? Selective breeding and other genetic testing are examples of this. My argument relies on the viewer taking the opinion that not all life is sacred and we can weigh different specie's lives against one another. Whether it is sacrificing a bird in coal mines to save a miner or whether it is sacrificing something to help rid an environment of pests. There is no need to rehash my previous examples as they are still there. Onto the rights argument. Humans have rights not because of some moral god out there bestowing us these rights. We have them because WE made them. Animals have only limited rights but I'll agree that they are helpless often. This does not make it moral to kill an animal for whatever reason but there is nothing immoral about killing an animal if the need is great enough. I consider myself a utilitarian so morals don't come into play with me. Disregarding my philosophy we can agree that killing an animal for medical reasons is alright if it saves enough people. If the need is there. Onto the money argument. Animal testing whether its for beauty products or for pets or whatever is a huge market. I recently bought some fish and while looking at Petco I saw the coveted Glo-Fish. These guys were engineered to manufacture a protein that makes them glow underwater. Interestingly enough I am in california where it is illegal to sell them but they are at the stores. On topic, this company not only generates millions of dollars but the demand for fish is increased. Due to their testing, more fish are bought and money is made. Some fish of course died in testing but in return many more were made and money was made. Whats not to like? We can both think of other examples were money is made and animals are not harmed much so why bother putting down more. My point is money can be made from testing animals. If we can make money we can better the human condition. Humans are made better off from at least some animal testing. I can see how one might argue that most animal testing comes at too high a cost to animals so lets ban it all. I do not see animals as being close to equal to humans. If I could sacrifice one hobo to save a million cows I would not. Maybe you or others would. My argument is still the same as before. Animal testing can be good for humans, medical or not, so why ban it? Thats the crux of my argument. Animals not having inherent rights is secondary. In this world of life against life, humans are worth more than our animal brethren.	PRO	302
302	S45570f76-A96e8347a	In the United States, the Electoral College should be abolished.	Full Resolution: In the United States, the Electoral College should be abolished. Definitions: Electoral College: A body of people representing the states of the US, who formally cast votes for the election of the president and vice president.	PRO	303
303	S15cbc009-A6ef40ed7	The US should Ensure Access to Quality Education For Everyone	"""Even in such a utopia those who refuse to learn, to put in the time and effort required, would not higher education levels; such fools would fail. I don't think effort is at all irrelevant to how far someone goes in their education. A total lack of effort wouldn't result in an education but rather a waste of time and money."" Firstly, I would ask my opponent to clarify the above statement; I belive you have contradicted yourself... correct me if I'm wrong. ""I don't see how the rich getting a good education bars the non-rich from also achieving that goal. True, it may not be as easy to obtain but nothing worth attaining is. This argument is little more than jealousy; if the poor placed as much effort in finding ways to educate themselves as they do whining about their circumstances perhaps education levels would be equal."" The fact that the rich are getting a good education doesn't bar the non-rich from doing so, but that's not the point. The idea is that it is simply unfair that the non-rich are not able to attend the same institutions as the rich. According to http://privateschool.about.com..., 2011, Le Rosey, the best school in Switzerland, costs a hefty $85,000 for admission. No matter how hard working, where do you propose the poor get that kind of money? Even if they amassed all of their enormous ""whining"" energy, they still would have difficulty amassing tuition for a good school. My opponent inquires about my precise proposition regarding how to make education equal. I propose that it be illegal to be transferred to any higher educational institution before you demonstrate exemplary performance in government and/or public institutions. After this goal is attained, there are two possible courses of action; firstly, if you are rich, you would then be allowed to transfer to a more advanced institution, payed for with the family's money. Alternately, you could stay in the public system. If you are non-rich, you would receive a full government scholarship that would cover tuition as well as basic tuition costs. ""I don't see how racial de-segregation reaches your goal. St. Louis is one of the most de-segregated public school system (still using busing) and yet the education outcomes are still poor in the city. The only part of your conclusion I agree with is that Education is related to knowledge."" Education is related to de-segregation. Earlier in our history, the federal government had desegregated education. Why? If segregation had nothing to do with education, why would the government intervene in this respect? ""You say education levels are ""almost always"" determined by wealth. So, in what circumstances isn't it determined by how rich you are? You're not exactly consistent on this point."" There are no circumstances lacking anomalies. In this event, one might be if a family was rich but unable or unwilling to send their child to a higher institution. ""The 10th amendment states that, ""The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people."" Nowhere in the Constitution is the Federal government granted the power over education nor the responsibility to ensure it for all Americans. So on the Constitutional level, I'd have to argue that, no, the US (Federal) should not ensure access to quality education and that it would be the states responsibility or even more important the individual's."" I concede this point. However, as educational reform is necessary, the states should respond in accordance to this policy. Also, the tenth amendment states that the freedoms are reserved by ""...the people."" I think you would agree that the majority of the US population fit the non-rich category. If it is the will of the people, or if it benefits the people, it should be passed into federal law. CONCLUSION I propose to make education good and equal for everyone because the current system is unfair and squanders a lot of potential. How would you feel if you were the poor one? How would you feel if your potential was squandered because people thought that you should ""stop whining?"" Thank you. I am waiting eagerly for your response. ant981228"	PRO	304
304	S738233f8-A45115d91	Should All students after 2035 be required go to college by the law	No, I dont think that all Students after 2035 be required by the law to go to college. Unless the Government is paying for every student to go to the college they want. Another reason why i am againist this is because not everyone can afford to go college, and also the government should not be in charge of what teens decide to do with there lives. I am in High School right now and i am very blessed to have a full-ride scholar ship to UCLA, but its really hard to get schlarships, So what im trying to say is that its hard to get money for college and some students just dont want to go. So why should the law force them, its there lives and let them be in charge.	CON	305
305	S30a568aa-Ae2c0983a	Public vs Private Education	Public Education is better then private education in an economic viewpoint because it is given to everyone that is physically able to go to school. This means that opportunity is given by the individual state governments to every single U.S resident. People seek to get an education, now a days, any way they possibly ca if financial value is not present to a certain family or individual.	PRO	306
306	Sccfc1c03-Ad302bad8	Localize Education- get rid of the Department of Education and Common Core	Localizing education can allow all 50 states to have different education plans. With 50 different plans they can all learn from each other to constantly have advancing education in the United States of America. Federal education provides a one size fits all methods, which doesn't work. The 10th amendment of the Constitution says that any power not given to the federal government is given to the states. Education is not mentioned in the Constitution so it should be a state issue. Common core is unconstitutional and irrational.	PRO	307
307	S863dddcf-Ad68ae12d	Formal education (K-12) ought to be compulsory in the United States	"On C3, as I think the RD 5 analysis requires it: 1. Time for global economy 101: global and national labor market competition is 100% topical to this debate. The biggest reason for specialization is the outsourcing of our jobs to other nations and the flooding of unskilled laborers into US borders, legal or otherwise. Hence, specialization has become a necessity outside of the control of our education system. I didn't provide sources because I figured this was common knowledge, but I've provided [1] & [2]below. No new arguments, just sources to appease Con. We need diplomas and college degrees not just because ""they caught on,"" as Con asserts with no warrants (ironically enough). We need them because we need training in a job that can't be outsourced to another nation or given to an employee willing to work for half our pay. Thank you, capitalism. [1] http://emlab.berkeley.edu... [2] http://actrav.itcilo.org... 2. His assumptions about parents providing necessities is totally bunk. 30.5 million kids needed free/reduced lunch. Even though 30.5 million kids is still a minority of the school population (about 40% of the total enrolled), by Con's logic, they are a foregone loss—so screw them. If 40% of the US's school children don't have parents that can provide them with a couple of dollars for school lunch every day, how many parents out there can't deal with the task of properly educating their own children? ""Parents provide food to their children; we can't say all but we can assume that it's natural to do so and the majority do. Food is a need. We can assume that most will provide education as well."" No, no we can't. And now, for 3 voting issues. 1. Con cannot ensure the same level of education that Pro can. -Compulsory education ensures that the standards movement is successful. As I stated previously, the standards movement was specifically designed to operate within a compulsory education system. The amount of oversight that it takes to guarantee that education continues to improve can only be done if schools are literally working as one unit. Anything less than a compulsory system cannot achieve this goal. -Furthermore, I've proved that education in the US is a worthwhile and improving endeavor. Extend all the analysis I gave on standards, cognitive thinking skills, life skills, and social skills. At this point, you can cast your vote for Pro right now, as he has not met his burden, which was to prove that compulsory education was broken enough to eliminate. I'm winning the cost/benefit analysis in other places, too, but this is probably the most important place. -Con will not achieve as many diplomas as Pro will. Though Con attempts to side step this by saying that education enrollment won't actually change and that diplomas may or may not reduce in importance if we eliminate compulsory education, both claims fall flat on their faces. I've already proven why the need for diplomas and higher education isn't going anywhere. And of course education enrollment would change! If it doesn't, then Con can't achieve any of the benefits in his case as all are contingent upon less people going to school. He can't get around the fact that people need diplomas to be successful in the US, and that I provide many, many more of those to people. 2. Despite Con claims, the state has an obligation to help its citizens succeed economically and politically. The state's job is to maximize the wellbeing of its citizenry. In fact, that's its only job. Education falls under the blanket of this job more than enough to require the state to take an active role in its administration. In the debate, I used the brief example of US and state laws to demonstrate why it is that the government makes certain acts compulsorily right and wrong. Though word count prohibited me from elaborating, I can extend this now. Why can't we murder people? Why can't companies form monopolies? Why does the government ""coerce"" money from every citizen each year in the form of taxes? Simple answer: the government, via the will of the people in one way or another, has mandated that these activities are all important enough to mandate in order to ensure the success of the individual and the collective. Considering that wellbeing is inextricably tied to education, as established in RD 1 via my statistics on living wage and the US labor market, I'd say I've accomplished my goal, since only I can guarantee, beyond a shadow of a doubt, to get more citizens diplomas that reflect a well-balanced, skillful education. Furthermore, as I will discuss in my 3rd voting issue, the Con world causes a net loss in rights protection. 3. Any compulsory system will be the best way to combat institutional discrimination. This has also been a much discussed topic within the debate. Con seems to think that we live in a society that will continue to offer social support to people even without a compulsion by mandate to do so. How exactly is it that institutional discrimination was able to take such a strong hold in the first place? Discrimination is only corrected by declaring it to be universally wrong and then mandating that it be fixed. Otherwise, we have the same problems with oversight that we have with the standards movement. Any voluntary system leaves it up to individuals to decide who deserves services. Any compulsory system doesn't allow the individual to make that choice, because everyone deserves services. Take the flaws of a voluntary military system as an example (note: this is an example: no new analysis is made here). Right now, institutional discrimination is a *huge* problem in the US military. The incentive program offers college tuition and the like to anyone who will join the military's ranks, which means that poor and minority citizens are the only ones actually being appealed to. A conscription model, on the other hand, ensures that citizens from every socioeconomic and cultural division of society are represented within the armed forces. Furthermore, my opponent essentially contradicts himself on a number of occasions when he says that society will just naturally pick up the slack and offer kids with no resources or stable home an education without it being compulsory. He's also said time and time again that society expects a certain percentage of citizens to fail miserably, and that those are just acceptable losses within a capitalist system. Well, which is it? Is society going to follow its capitalist roots and tell them all to buzz off, or is society going to betray those roots and decide to help out underserved youth? In this case, you can't have your cake and eat it, too. With that, I sincerely thank Con for the debate, but encourage a vote in favor of Pro. (Woot! 89 characters remaining. I'm going to Disneyland!)"	PRO	308
308	S68f43582-A77189815	Public education in America is the death of freedom	"The public education system needs reform, but it's hardly the end of freedom, and there's no way to get rid of it. You sound like a conspiracy theorist. Also your position is foggy. Explain how children are being indocrinated. Common Care- "" The Common Core State Standards Initiative is an educational initiative in the United States that details what K-12 students should know in English language arts and mathematics at the end of each grade."" I don't see how there's a problem with this. Charter school- Created by state law, charter schools are an example of a public/private partnership designed to enhance educational opportunities for public school students. Charter schools use tax dollars. So can you clarify your position on charter schools and common care? Immigrants: Your biggest concern seems to be with immigrants. Pro states:""How can the parent of an illegal immigrant child be considered good and deserving of the high cost of the education their child will receive?"" Now first you use the word ""good"". I am going to assume you're speaking in terms of morality, so I shall explain why its moral to provide immigrants with education. P1: We should act in ways that promote overall well-being. P2: Providing immigrants with education promotes overall well-being. C: We should provide immigrants with education. On P2: 1. Providing immigrants with education will have positive outcomes in the workforce. Giving immigrant children an education will provide them the skills needed to help the country compete in the global economy. Education Is A Basic Human Right: The Universal Declaration Of Human Rights, Article 26: ""Everyone has the right to education. Education shall be free, at least in the elementary and fundamental stages. Elementary education shall be compulsory. Technical and professional education shall be made generally available and higher education shall be equally accessible to all on the basis of merit."" My opponent states that immigrant children are not deserving, however the universal declaration of human rights, per the United Nations, says that all humans have a right to education. This declaration is objective and not up for interpretation: Article 30. Nothing in this Declaration may be interpreted as implying for any State, group or person any right to engage in any activity or to perform any act aimed at the destruction of any of the rights and freedoms set forth herein. Illegal Immigrants Pay Taxes: The states receiving the most tax revenue from households headed by unauthorized immigrants were California ($2.7 billion), Texas ($1.6 billion), Florida ($806.8 million), New York ($662.4 million), and Illinois ($499.2 million) {See Figure 1 and Table 1}. Discrimination Against Immigrants Is Unjust And Un-American: Pretty much everyone in the country is a descendant of an immigrant. The founding fathers were immigrants. Throughout American history we have used immigrant labor. Bracero Program: The Bracero Program was created by executive order in 1942 because many growers argued that World War II would bring labor shortages to low-paying agricultural jobs. On August 4, 1942 the United States concluded a temporary intergovernmental agreement for the use of Mexican agricultural labor on United States farms (officially referred to as the Mexican Farm Labor Program), and the influx of legal temporary Mexican workers began. The founding fathers supported immigration: Hamilton and Jefferson: ""Immigrants exhibit a large proportion of ingenious and valuable workmen"" Thomas Paine viewed America as: ""the asylum for the persecuted lovers of civil and religious liberty."" It is unjust to deprive education. Immigrant children are born into their situation and it would be profoundly immoral to keep them in this poor socioeconomic state by depriving them of education. Positive Economic Benefits: Findings show that gross domestic product (GDP) will grow, the legalized will pay more taxes, and immigrants will add tax revenue and economic activity. GDP gains range from 0.3 percent to 0.8 percent per year ($83 to $150 billion),depending on the labor force growth stimulated by immigration reform and the increase in earnings of the undocumented immigrants who would be legalized. Lack Of Public Education Has Traditionally Leads To Not Freedom: Slavery: African American slaves were intentionally kept ignorant in order to subjugate them. If they understood their situation, they would have been able to quickly revolt. 19th Century Russia: Under authoratative Tsarists rule, serfs were intentially deprived of literacy and knowledge of political events in order to encourage apathy. Taxes:We have to pay taxes in order to establish institutions, I hope this is not news to you.I don't know why it bothers you that immigrant children are benefiting from this. It seems to me youre just incredibly natavist. Nativism: "" Nativism is the political position of demanding a favored status for certain established inhabitants of a nation as compared to claims of newcomers or immigrants.[1] Nativism typically means opposition to immigration and support of efforts to lower the political or legal status of specific ethnic or cultural groups because the groups are considered hostile or alien to the natural culture, and assumptions that they cannot be assimilated."" This is exactly what you're endorsing. You are wanting to deprive children of education in order to keep them in this poor socioeconomic state. It's Hard To Become Legal: I know this will come up. I Don't have enough characters to explain, in-depth how complicated the process is, so I shall just put a picture: Conclusion: My opponent just used some vague conspiracy theory like, nataivst, xenophobe arguments. I am interesting in hearing a vigiorous intellectual argument. My opponents contentions seem to be immigration and taxes. My points: 1. It is just and beneficial to provide immigrant children with education, per the doctrine of human rights and economic study. 2. Immigrants pay taxes. 3. Natavism is detrimental (which is common sense, so I didn't spend time on it, but I will if need be). 4. Education leads to freedom. deprivation of education leads to subjugation. Sources: http://immigrationroad.com... http://en.wikipedia.org...(politics) http://en.wikipedia.org... http://www.urban.org... http://www.huffingtonpost.com... http://braceroarchive.org... http://www.immigrationpolicy.org... http://www.un.org... http://www.irs.gov..."	CON	309
309	Sd5ad7f78-A9c5451c7	John jay College is the best school ever.	John Jay is not the best school ever. The John Jay college success rate is not as high as other CUNY colleges. The quality of life is decent. They offer computers but so do other colleges. The cafeteria is usually clean and does not have a wide variety of foods. The menu is very limited and everything is expensive. The graduation rate is low. John Jay College is good, just not the best school ever.	CON	310
310	Sf49a4f1e-Ad3fab9ba	An animal's life is worth just as much as a human's.	"In response to my claim that ""We typically love our brothers, sisters, children, and parents more than we love our pets,"" Pro said, ""Many of us care about our pets just as much as our family, and consider them to be a part of our family."" His response does not negate my claim because ""many"" does not contradict ""typically."" I can grant that many people care just as much for their pets as they do their family, but still maintain that typically people don't. If you asked the average parent whether they'd rather you shoot their dog or their daughter, they'd choose the dog because they value the daughter much more. And most of us would consider a parent to be a barbarian if they so much as had difficulty making that choice. In response to my claim that ""Almost all of us have friends and family, but not all of us have pets,"" Pro said, ""Something that is more common or applies to everyone, is not necessarily better than something that applies to less people."" That is a good point, but let me explain my meaning a little further. Pro is making a general claim about animals in his resolution, and he argued from how useful animals have been to humans. My point is that if fewer people have benefited from animals than have benefited from other people, then in general, people have more instrumental worth than animals. There are some people who value their pets more than other humans, but I think they are wrong to do so. For example, I have a friend with PTSD, and she has a service dog she takes everywhere with her to keep her from having anxiety attacks. Her dog is her best frien, and she scarcely has any human friends. So you'd think she benefits from her dog more than from humans. But consider what goes unnoticed. Humans made the clothes she wears. Humans made the apartment she lives in. Humans made the truck she drives. Humans trained her dog. Humans pay the taxes that go to support her since she is a disabled vet. And that money goes to buy dog food for her dog as well. She may not notice how valuable humans are to her because she doesn't have as much face time with them as she does with her dog, but that doens't mean they are worth less than the dog just because she doesn't notice. Pro attempts to argue that animals also have equal intrinsic value with humans. I don't think any of his arguments support that view. He says that animals have better moral fiber than humans. But moral fiber doesn't add or subtract to intrinsic value. Intrinsic value is the value something has because of what it is. All humans have equal intrinsic value even though some are more moral than others. So the morality of animals is not relvant to their intrinsic value. It is only relevant to their instrumental value. But besides that, pro hasn't given a very good argument for why we should think animals have moral fiber at all. We don't know that animals behave out of any sense of right and wrong like we do. They simply act on instinct or on what they are trained to do. They don't have ""pure hearts."" I doubt animals are even capable of moral reasoning, i.e. understanding the concept of justifying their actions or having morally justifiable reasons for their actions. Pro points out that while humans destroy the earth, animals don't. But animals don't care about preserving the earth like many humans do. The only reason they aren't destroying it is because they can't. They're not as technologically advanced as we are. But cats and dogs have been known to be destructive of wildlife. Cats kill for the pleasure of it, and they don't care if it's a mocking bird. Dogs kill cats for the sport of it without any regard for the cat owner. Humans are the only species that sacrifice for the sake of other species. It is our species that protects animals, putting them on endangered species lists, forbid hunting them, etc. Animals that hunt give no thought to wildlife preservation. Pro points out again that the relationship a person has with their pet can be just as special as with their friends. I grant that. But it's not enough to support his resolution, which is that animals in general or all animals have the same worth as humans in general or all humans. There are always going to be exceptions, but you can't make a general claim based on exceptional cases. The fact that some people value their pets just as much as their friends does not support the claim that the lives of animals are just as valuable as the lives of humans, in general. Pro admits in the end that animals don't help us as much as we do, which negates his claim that animals have equal instrumental worth with humans. Thank you for coming to tonight's debate, and thanks to Pro for sharing your thoughts and arguments."	CON	311
311	S51e5652c-A2f06ab78	Education nowadays should be mostly computerized	"First, my opponent states that we could push a button that lets students tell the school that they are present. but in order to make it to where they eliminate truancy, they would have to press the button in every class. at that point why not just take attendance like it's always been done. my opponent states that there is no evidence that face-to-face learning is better than virtual learning. 2013 - Xu, D. & Jaggars, S. S. Adaptability to Online Learning: Differences Across Types of Students and Academic Subject Areas Community College Research Center at Columbia University 2002 - Brown, B. W. & Liedholm, C. E. Can Web Courses Replace the Classroom in Principles of Microeconomics? American Economics Review 92, 444-448 A533; May 2002 2000 - Efendioglo, A. & Murray, L. W. Education at a Distance: Teaching Executives in China T.H.E. Journal, January 2000, 27(6) 2002 - Hartzoulakis, V. Investigating Computer Mediated Instruction in a Greek State Lykeio Doctoral Dissertation, 2002 2009 - Ferguson, J., Tryjankowski, A. Online Versus Face-to-face Learning: Looking at Modes of Instruction in Master's-level Courses Journal of Further and Higher Education Vol. 33, Issue 3, August. 219-228 And many more. what I meant in 5 was that you need to encode the information in a face-to-face environment then an app could help to reinforce it. But it should not be the primary mode of encoding. No, you won't have google on the exam. and every citation I've provided shows that face-to-face instruction is the best way to make sure that the information is in long term memory. As my citations in my first post show, using the internet to learn inhibits long term encoding. ""What's actually driving up tuition are the redundant administrative positions that are growing in number. not hiring professors. but that's a debate for another day. And that point shows that you like talking about something else and not address my point. I was talking about them being high in the current rate. Not why they are growing."" The reason they are high in the current rate is because of the redundant positions. Not because of traditional learning. Again, I said that an online community could be HELPFUL but should not be the primary method of learning. Yes, you do need to encode information into long term memory before you can reinforce it. I don't see what's hilarious about it."	CON	312
312	S863dddcf-A88d47bad	Formal education (K-12) ought to be compulsory in the United States	"PRO CASE 1A: 1. The data set I used stated that a high school diploma earned a person at least $200.00 more per week on average. But, since your resolution states K-12 education, that means that a person without a diploma is still unable to survive. Living wage went unrefuted. 2. Since the US workforce is so dependent on specialized labor, a college degree is becoming more and more critical to success. Extend the fact that my opponent agreed with my specialization arguments. 1B: 1. It isn't enough to merely ""provide."" As I proved in 1A, since education is necessary to the success of its citizens in a way that separates it from any other government service, it makes sense that the state would compel its citizens to participate in it. States may, via the social contract, require citizens to do certain things that don't violate their natural rights for the benefit of the state as a whole. See all US state and federal laws. 1C: 1. So, my opponent states that because millions of underserved students have a ""damaged education"" already, instead of attempting to fix the system because we know they can't succeed without education, we should demolish the only set of laws that actually *get* them to school. They can't magic their way to a diploma. 2. Capitalist system or no, our first priority is not to our economic theories, but our fundamental political ideology, which centers on equal rights. We cannot forsake any student without violating our core ideals. 3. I'm not sure what the deterrent portion of his response is referring to, but I can prove that not every American would receive access to education without truancy and attendance laws dexterously. It's described directly in the 1C. Students from poor homes, broken homes, or straight up no home lack the fundamental resources (parents, money, mentors, teachers) to seek out education on their own. Furthermore, students who come from these places find that the only safe place in their lives is at a school. It may even be the only place where they receive a hot meal each day (this is the case with a handful of my own students). It is tax dollars, allocated via the state because K-12 education is mandatory, that keeps them in school, with school supplies, and with lunch money. The millisecond education is not compulsory, you take away the state's obligation to provide those tax dollars. 2A: Cross-applying his 1 does nothing to diminish my argument. First, remember that his 1 has no warrants whatsoever that prove that schools teach 100% useless material. Second, the state educational standards actually work to ensure that useless skills and information are not taught in public schools. To prove my point, let's sample just a few of the standards that I am mandated by the state to meet: *EL.CM.RE.02: Listen to, read, and understand a wide variety of informational and narrative text, including classic and contemporary literature, poetry, magazines, newspapers, reference materials, and online information. *EL.CM.WR.30: Synthesize information from multiple sources and identify complexities and discrepancies in the information and the different perspectives found in each medium, including almanacs, microfiche, news sources, in-depth field studies, speeches, journals, and technical documents. *EL.CM.SL.04: Recognize and use elements of speech forms (e.g. introduction, first and second transitions, body, conclusion) in formulating rational arguments and applying the art of persuasion and debate. These represent reading comprehension, writing, and speaking skills that the state requires me to teach my high schoolers. The standards movement has hardly proved a pointless endeavor, and my argument seeks to prove that education is comprised of the above skills, rather than the nebulous affirmative's ""pointless concepts."" 2B: 1. My opponent admits that ""adequate parenting"" is required for students to gain life and social skills outside of CE. At that point, he's just lost this strand of argumentation. While he has no method or metric by which to determine parent involvement, school curriculums in the US *mandate* character education, life skills, and social skills (see the DARE program, etc.). The state's obligation is not to provide a perfect system. However, I am the only one maximizing the access to all of these essential skills. CON CASE C1: 1. You admit in RD 1 that you can't prove this argument to be true. And I quote: ""Of course, it is impossible to provide proof for this but I would hope it is self-evident."" It isn't self-evident. Look to my counter-evidence on state standards. 2. Unwarranted arguments don't have to be entirely untrue. I'm sure there are bad teachers, just like there are bad everything else's in the world. However, does that mean that we scrap a system that has inherent worth as proven in my advocacy? Not so much. He's given himself a huge burden here that he now has to hold to. He needs to prove to you that the flaws of CE are so vast that the system cannot be saved. My advocacy proves this patently untrue. In fact, my advocacy clearly shows that education is improving. 3. You still haven't linked this to CE. You try and dodge the bullet by calling my case ironically non-linking (see my above arguments about how I do link into CE), but don't bother to actually address my argument here. Extend that he can't prove causation. C2: 1. Already proved why homeschooling is not a viable option for all students. Con seems to be living in a fantasy world in which all parents are equal. 2. The link to those standards was to allow readers to peruse them to back up my claims of legitimacy. Reading some of them helps with this process. Luckily, I provided some above. 3. If the standards movement continues the way that it is, the gap between those extremely lucky enough to have dedicated homeschool parents and public school children with rapidly decrease. 4. Con's gonna have to explain that last couple of sentences. I'm not dropping it, but I have no clue what he's trying to argue. C3: 1. How does making public education voluntary *not* affect how many kids get their diplomas? Logic dictates that if CE is abolished, less students will attend K-12 school or even seek educational opportunities. This means that less students will get their GED or diploma. This means that more students will be cut out of the job market entirely. His whole point here is to get kids out into the work force sooner. However, at the point where he concedes that employment success is determined by graduating high school, you pretty must cast your vote for Pro. 2. Yet again, this blatantly discriminates against kids who don't have access to the parent support, community support, or resources to self-educate to the point of passing a GED exam. You can't possibly warrant that all people who don't have these resources just ""don't want their diplomas."" It isn't laziness; it's institutional discrimination."	PRO	313
313	S717923bb-A6f33592a	A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.	"In this, the final round, I'm going to briefly re-cap my arguments and show you why you should believe that a bird in the hand is indeed worth more than two in the bush. In the first plane, I provided several sources which defined the meaning of this proverb in it's proper cultural context. My opponent did not challenge these definitions, and they are to be taken as authoritative. I next provided the math, showing in most cases it is actually better to keep what you have, since in most cases giving it up to try for something supposedly greater yields little or no reward. There is a definite risk, and my logic shows that in the majority of cases it does NOT pay off, especially as the odds grow larger than 1 in 2. My opponent has not challenged the logic I provided R2, instead confining her arguments to the value of the birds in the bush and, in R3, the odds of gaining them. I addressed the value of the other birds already; for example, in R3 I showed by my lottery argument that even when the payoff is millions of times larger than what you pay, the odds can be too long to make it a worthwhile risk. Her assertions that the proverb demands a 1:2 ratio of value for the birds (in R2) or that they are necessarily at least equal (R3) do not match up with reality; I already admitted that the value of the other birds may indeed be much larger than the one you have, but that in most cases we cannot tell for certain until we have them. At this point in the debate, the only two points that my opponent is seriously disputing are whether we can know the value of the birds in the bush beforehand, and the value of taking the risk in the first place. This last comes the closest to actually disputing the logic I provided R2, but does so by an indirect and fuzzy way, poking at my statement about the odds along the way. Taking them in order: Value of Birds: My opponent states, ""We can use our own judgment to know the value of something to come,"" and then gives the example of a job interview. I do not deny that we can do a certain amount of research before taking risks; it is common sense to find out what you can about a situation before you commit to it. Before commitment, though, our information is necessarily limited. When you interview for a job, you have a limited amount of time to observe the work environment and the other employees. Oftentimes, the person hiring you will not be your supervisor; the hours you are quoted in the interview may not be fixed; aggressive union dues and similar fees may reduce your quoted income; and you rarely if ever get the chance to meet your co-workers and gain any sort of substantive information about the personalities you will be working with. No company will advertise the fact that their lockers are raided by kleptomaniacs, that the cafeteria food is horribly overpriced and nutritionally worthless, and that the office staff are the most malicious gossips west of the Mississippi. The fact is, you cannot know this about your prospective job until after you change jobs. Here is a list of other things that you cannot really know the true value of before you commit: - A spouse. Anyone who thinks they really know their spouse before the honeymoon ends is deluded. Giving up your current spouse for someone you just met is insane. - A child. In this case, the up-front costs are fairly easy to determine (under normal circumstance, that is), but the life-time costs are impossible to know. Whether they will become a doctor who makes you proud or a sociopath who murders you in your sleep cannot be determined at birth or conception. - Stock in a company. Even blue-chip companies have gone under without warning; you can do all the calculations you want, but no-one really knows how much a share will be worth in a week. - Sex. Your partner's skill, the diseases you might catch, the chance of being observed, the possibility that your partner may reveal embarrassing secrets about you later on, the possibility of being raped, the potential to become pregnant; there are many imponderables about copulation, few of which can be researched at all beforehand. The first time with anyone is fraught with risks that you cannot adequately judge. - Hiring a sitter/maid/repairman. You are bringing a stranger into your home, often without the benefit of references; and sometimes even those are fabricated. It is impossible to know that these people will not kidnap your children or rob you blind. We trust the odds that they won't, but we cannot know for sure. Many of life's situations are unknowable before hand. In many, if not most cases, you cannot know the true value of the birds in the bush before committing. Value of Risk (and odds of gaining): My opponent's only response to my arguments about the odds: ""In fact, when a person gives up everything they have to pursue something, the odds are highly in their favor that they will gain that thing... When a person sets their mind on something and believes that they will gain it, it becomes their reality."" This certainly does not match my personal experiences, nor does it match the overwhelming evidence of history. History is full of people who single-mindedly pursued some goal, only to fail in the end. Examples: - Alexander the Great (hoped to establish a lasting empire across the known world; after his untimely death, his wife and son were murdered and the empire fragmented amongst his generals). - Hannibal (Spent his life trying to conquer Rome; got very close, but was frustrated in his hopes by a critical and divided government back home in Carthage. Was called home, and lost the crucial battle defending Carthage). - Hitler (Attempted to establish a 1000 year German empire. Committed suicide to prevent capture by the Soviet army). - Nicolai Tesla (His life's work and dream of wireless transmission of power died in the fight with Edison). One could write books on the number of people who have had their dreams shattered and life work ruined; and I'm sure people have. The point is clear: You don't always get what you want, no matter how much you want it. Most of the ""positive thinking"" spiel is complete nonsense; in this case, promoted by a website who touts themselves as ""the online source for books, articles and guidance on self improvement, positive thinking, motivation, spiritual growth and meditation."" Con's source for this point, SuccessConciousness.com, is hardly a credible authority on this issue. There is no reason, therefore, to believe that the odds of gain are at all favorable. There is very good reason to believe, given the difficulty of succeeding in life, that the odds are usually distinctly unfavorable. I hardly have to address this last point. My opponent would have us believe that if you lose something, you can always gain it back; that there are unlimited job opportunities available; and that homelessness isn't that bad, after all. This hardly needs to be stated to be refuted. I, and I hope everyone who reads this debate, understand that job opportunities are very limited indeed; that many things (like money, relationships, trust, valuables, time, health, etc.) may be lost permanently through bad decisions; and that even if homelessness isn't QUITE as terrible as the popular conception has it, it's still much worse than having a home. Risking the bird in the hand can have drastic consequences sometimes. Conclusion: The point of this proverb is that one must be careful which risks to take. When you already have a good situation, it is usually a bad idea to drop it in the hope of gaining a better, especially when you don't know what the new situation will be like or if you can even attain it. Based on logic, common sense, and the witness of History, it is clear that a bird in the hand truly is worth two in the bush. I thank my opponent for a challenging and engrossing debate, and wish her the best in her future debates. -C."	PRO	314
314	S816da028-Aa6b99a45	Resolved: Direct popular vote should replace Electoral College	"So I will now refute my opponent's case. C1: The EC increases minority status There are two things I would like to say about this contention. The first is that some votes of states matter more than others. The system excludes many voters from a meaningful role in presidential elections. If you live in New York or Texas, for example, it is generally a foregone conclusion which party will win your state's electoral votes, so your vote has less meaning "" and it can feel especially meaningless if you vote on the losing side. On the other hand, if you live in Florida or Ohio, where the outcome is less clear, your vote has a greatly magnified importance. Voters in small states are favored because Electoral College votes are based on the number of senators and representatives a state has. Wyoming's roughly 500,000 people get three electoral votes. California, which has about 70 times Wyoming's population, gets only 55 electoral votes. (1) In Electoral College, some people's votes count more than others, so the candidates only have to focus on states (swing states) that will vote for them and has more value on votes. The second thing is when people lose, they lose hard. The state only casts its vote to the candidates who the majority of the state voted for. So in another words, the majority aren't heard. They are just flat out ignored. C2: Adds to the cohesiveness of the country ""The primary advantage is that the Electoral College insures that a president must have broad support over many regions of the country as opposed to popularity in a relatively few heavily-populated states. This isn't true as I have stated before, the candidates don't have to do this. They can just focus on swing states, and the states with the votes that are more of value. C3: The EC encourages a two party system This is actually bad because it means that other people who want to run can't so it is just discouraging people from getting as much as involvement in politics as they want. C4: Constitution This doesn't matter when the current voting system is obviously flawed. Sure America might not be a full democratic country, but in the case of Electoral College, trying to implement state rights do not work when trying to make the votes fair and equal. The definition of democracy is that people have equal say in the politics. Obviously when many people are being ignored,it is clearly out of the line of democracy. Rebuilding my own case: C+1: The electoral college is flawed --> The system we have now does not follow the principles of a democracy As I have said before, United States might be a constitutional republic, but the base line is democracy. The definition of democracy is people have an equal say in what goes on in the country. In the modern view, the president represents the people, but he also has to follow what people want. Also, I think you misinterpreted my point about the majority having infinitely louder voice than the minority. What I am trying to say is that the minority are being ignored. Not being considered less, but flat out ignored. In a direct popular voting system, everyone is considered. Their votes are not being ignored, but counted. This is fundamentally unfair.(2) ---> Most people do not support the system Yes, popular support is not always the best thing to follow. In this case, though, people's support matters. It is the people's decisions that chooses the president. This is not a politics case where people are deciding whether or not to go to war, this is how THEY want to vote for their president. ---> People may not vote due to the EC The problem with Electoral College is that some people's vote matters more. So wouldn't this lead to a situation where some states are not getting some campaign from all the candidates at all? If that was the case, then would people want to vote knowing that some other people in states with more votes are more important than them? C+2: The system fails to make the majority win this has happened, and can still happen, and when it does, the people are not going to be happy. With direct popular vote, you have to get the majority of the votes, so this does not happen. C+3: Direct popular vote maximizes liberties of all Americans In direct popular vote, this won't take away the minorities' rights as much as Electoral College does, because every vote counts. They DO NOT ignore the votes. With Electoral College, they probably ignore almost half of the population's votes which does actually go against their right of having a say. 1. New York Times, 11-19-2008, Flunking the Electoral College,ï¿½ National Popular Vote, http://www.nationalpopularvote.com... 2.(Democratic, Henry Liddell, Robert Scott, ""A Greek-English Lexicon,"" at Perseus) In conclusion, the benefits of direct popular vote clearly outweighs the benefits of the Electoral College. Even though US is not a full democracy, it is still democratic. Sure state rights are important, but elections are about the people, not the states. The main flaw in Electoral College is that it ignores many people's voices, which is a very bad thing because it is out of the line from the definition of democracy."	PRO	315
315	S1901e6eb-Afde7b419	The Electoral College	"It appears you've conceded the points of attention to small states and the definition of a republic. You haven't addressed them at all in R3. Holding elections by popular vote is not disqualifying for the label of 'republic. ' Otherwise, All of our senators and representatives would disqualify us from being a 'republic. ' They are all voted in by popular vote. Moving on, To rebut: 1. The electoral college was more of a compromise between the founding fathers, And hastily made on top of that. (1) Many things have changed since they implemented the system. Political parties, Gerrymandering, Campaigns, The HoR freeze, Technology (holding a national election back then was much less practical), And much more. Several of them wanted popular vote, Some wanted congress to elect the president directly, Some wanted state legislatures to elect the president, Et cetera. To pretend this was some unanimous decision among the founding fathers is to attempt to revise history. Your changes to the EC would be considered major changes. There's really no way around this. You say HoR shouldn't be frozen. If it was unfrozen, The power gap between texas and wyoming votes would close significantly. California would gain a good deal of seats, Et cetera. There would be over 650-700 Electoral Votes. The senator vote % would diminish to around 13-17%. Maybe even less depending on how the HoR seats were decided. China's equivalent of the HoR has over 2, 000 members. Ours wouldn't likely grow to that size, But over 1, 000 is possible depending on how things played out. Because of this, The senator bonus for winning the majority in each state would likely not be the deciding factor to many elections. In this case, The system is 100% indistinguishable from a pure popular vote. It would likely be similar to how our situation is now with the minority vote winning the election. 5-10% of the time the senators would be significant. This is absolutely as close as you can get to a pure popular vote system without eliminating the electoral college completely. 2. I haven't ignored your criticism of the winner takes all system. It's one of the primary reasons the EC should be dissolved. You're pointing at 3 states who got several visits from each candidate and ignoring that 25 states were completely ignored and 7 more states got only 1 visit from a candidate or both candidates. It isn't so impressive. Any state that has a chance of swinging will garner some attention. This doesn't go against my point, It actually proves it. It is not that hard to tell, With all the polling that is done nowadays, When a state is going to be a close race. There's a margin of error, If it falls within a few points of that the state will get attention. You have to show me how Trump 'appealed' to them before you have a shadow of a point. Even then, Again, You're leaving out the 32 states who got 0 or 1 visit from each candidate while holding up 3 states that got more than that. 3. 3rd parties While it is another minor point the EC discourages 3rd party voters because winning half a state out of nowhere is extremely unlikely. A reform, Or the dissolution, Of the EC would work quite well for it. Leaving the senator votes in as a bonus would hinder 3rd parties as well. To conclude, It appears we're at an impasse. You've conceded all the points I started with, And all the points I've made in this debate now except for some vague suggestion that 'any state could be a swing state you never know. ' These states were recognized as possible swing states and both candidates spent time there. This wasn't unforeseen, And it was clearly never impossible. The states that had no chance of swinging were paid no heed. I'm uncertain of what you think wins this debate for you. I'd take your reformed EC over what we have now because it's a massive step in the direction of popular vote where the mass majority of victories would go to the candidate with the popular vote. I'm not even certain if, In your reformed system, It is mathematically possible for someone to win the presidency without the popular vote victory. If my napkin math is right on this, It would be nearly if not completely impossible. In this case, It would be effectively no different from a pure popular vote system. It would just mean that votes were still slightly unequal between states, But much less so than now. If you were going to change the EC that much you may have wanted to debate a different topic, And made your desired changes clear in R1. Something along the lines of ""The EC should be reformed. "" With you as pro, And someone who wanted the EC to stay in place as Con. To state it clearly one more time, I don't know what wins this debate for you. We barely disagree on anything, You just want to reform the system to where there would be a tiny chance senator EC votes would swing it if candidates won enough states but not the popular vote, But in reality I'm uncertain if that would actually be possible in that system. My position is that the EC should be eliminated, But I can't help but like your system too because it's nearly identical. You can't simply say ""no its not"" and back that statement up with no logical statements or evidence. There is really only one more step for you to take between having an EC at all and not, And that's just a slight power spike from senator EC votes. With an expanded and expanding HoR (if you agree with the unfreezing, Which it seems you do, Otherwise you're agreeing with a system that goes counter to our founders) that would be more and more insignificant. Otherwise, There is unequal representation in Congress in the HoR which is supposed to give states power by population. So from what I see there's not much left to say. You are all but agreeing with me. I'm all but agreeing with you. The topic of this debate suggested you were Pro EC and that it should be preserved 'at most with minor reforms. ' I leave it up to the audience to decide whether or not your suggested reforms are minor. I see no world in which they are. The only real argument you may have left is that abolishing the EC is likely to favor democrats somewhat. There is a slight statistical majority in favor of democrats, And this is increasing as older generations die off. (2) If current trends hold, Which can be doubted somewhat, Then the US Republican party will probably die within 30-50 years. May your thoughts be clear, -Thoht (Additional sources in comments. Some data pulled from previous sources)"	CON	316
316	S1bd03141-Aa50187dc	Rescuing our Failing Education System	"Note: Pro has not gave any clear evidence as to how successful the German system is on students. Pro has not given the average GPA or anything to support his theory. All Pro has really done in this debate is give facts on what happens in the German education system. Defense: Pro begins the argument with a question as to wear the public funding will come from. Pro claims that the tax payer cannot just pay for all of this. Okay, we both agree that the current education system we have is failing us. All we do is take that money that is going into education, and change the framework for education. We also spend 800 billion dollars on our military. You can just take money out of that funding to fund education. Even though I disagree with this, Bernie Sanders and his supporters are comfortable with taxing rich people above 60%. There are several ways to get money for a comprehensive charter school system, and it will solve the education problem. ""A public school could be just as good as the charter school if it was given equal funding. I am not opposed to charter schools and private schools; my argument only lies with the public education system. I think charter and private schools should be left to their own choices. The public school system is what needs to be remodeled. And before you dismiss the German school system, let me explain it a little bit more in detail so that you can understand."" Pro gives Con the added benefit of saying that a public school can be equally as good as a charter school system if it was given equal funding. So, Pro already admits that charter school systems are better than the current state of public schools. This just makes my job easier on proving that charter school systems are better. I am not interested in the German School System. I am interested in the results, and it is unfortunate that Pro did not give the results of the system. Results of Charter School System: The Nation""s First All-Charter School District ""New Orleans is the first city to build an education system based on these three principles. As a result, student achievement is on the rise; equity is increasing; and New Orleans citizens strongly back the reform efforts. Before Hurricane Katrina decimated the city and most of its schools in 2005, 64 percent of public school students in New Orleans attended a school designated as ""failing."" Currently, only 9 percent of students attend failing schools. High school graduation rates have increased by more than 20 percentage points, from below 50 percent to more than 70 percent. And, in 2013, a study by the Center for Research on Education Outcomes (CREDO) found that New Orleans charter schools deliver five months of extra learning per year when compared to similarly situated traditional schools.:"" New Orleans is an example of where public schools were failing, and charter school systems made it better. http://educationnext.org... Pro has not provided sufficient results, and has only taught us about how german school systems. Pro has actually shown results."	CON	317
317	S19b8d77c-Adc24b880	Science lessons tend to deal with fact, as opposed to opinion as in a religious education lesson	"The bottom line is that science lessons deal with fact and not opinion. Creationism simply is not fact. Creationism was written by a individual whom no one can name. There is no evidence that it actually happened: only a shared belief by millions of people can possibly give creationism any credibility. The fact that it cannot be disproved is not basis enough for it to be taught any more than the unproved proposition that invisible unicorns live on mars should be discussed in the science class. Science is about physical evidence alone, it may not be the only path to truth but it is a very specific discipline and creationism simply cannot live up to its standards and so, although it may in fact be correct, creationism should not therefore be taught alongside evidence based theory. Science lessons are the laboratory of fact, experiments and precision. Religious education classes are home to discussion - sharing opinions and thoughts about something which is uncertain. Professor Lewis Wolpert, of University College London, said(1): ""Creationism is based on faith and has nothing to do with science, and it should not be taught in science classes. ""There is no evidence for a creator, and creationism explains nothing. It is based on religious beliefs and any discussion should be in religious studies."" (1)http://www.guardian.co.uk/science/2008/sep/11/creationism.education"	PRO	318
318	S5d3f8690-Aa0480f97	Curent high school education should not be mandatory	"I thank my opponent for starting this debate and would quickly like to proceed to my refutations and arguments. My arguments are most likely to be included in my refutations, though. However, I will restate them to make them clearer. Seeing as my opponent has not opened with any definitions, I will define a few words. Current: modern and at this time Education: knowledge acquired by learning and instruction Mandatory: required by law or rule Refutations 1. ""The core requirements taught in high school: literature, science, higher mathematics (ex: Algebra), and history are rarely necessary, especially for blue collar jobs and lower skilled jobs (ex: cashier). Those that need it are usually white collar workers. Therefore, society is creating economic waste by providing a service that has little benefit to the majority of people."" I have to completely disagree. How is science and mathematics not important? These two extremely important subjects have funded society as we know it today. Without these two things, we would not have technology such as computers, televisions, satellites, cell phones, and many other items! Literature inspires people to create pieces of writing that one day may produce great works of art. Literature encourages writers to produce new ideas, include new themes, and new developed characters. You can't say that books such as The Iliad, War and Peace, and Moby Dick came out of nowhere. They certainly had influence and must have had encouragement to weave such wonderful stories that people enjoy. History lectures produce historians, archaeologists, and anthropologists that search for answers as to why certain empires fell, so that we can avoid those errors. We can learn about our history and what happened and why we exist. In every class, you have those who are not that dedicated to learning, and those people take lower skilled jobs. ""If high school education was not mandatory, less people would enter high school, therefore lowering expenses on education, and tax money could be used for other purposes..."" Maybe so, but this is a very small benefit compared to the huge benefit that high school currently produces. As I previously stated, those who get out of high school usually go to college and further their studies. Some become extremely successful and make plenty of money for the economy. ""Mandatory high school education directly infringes on the freedom of others. You are requiring people to spend at least six hours a day a facility. Not only that but one's freedom's are infringed."" This is absurd. An completely free society is a chaotic one. Everyone would do whatever they'd like and commit crimes, with no punishment involved. You yourself said prison, military, and school are where freedom of speech is severely hindered. This is untrue, but, using your OWN argument as support, then why don't we ban all of them? Crime doers can run amok in the streets, spreading more crime. We would have no military to defend our country. No one would learn because all schools are banned. Why don't we kill every single parent because they don't let their child do whatever he/she wants? In every society, there are limitations to freedom and those limitations are a good thing. ""Since those that do not want a high school education will not be required to attend high school, those that want to learn will not have to deal with students who disrupt classes, or cause the lower standard of education since these students that do not care about high school education do not study, pay attention, and/or skips school."" This statement basically suggests that we should completely not focus on our friends and family that do poor in school and let them drop out and possibly resort to a life of crime. No, everyone needs to stay in school. Even if you have the worst, most ignorant, and most horrible student in the world, he or she will learn something when they come out of school. If the child is disobedient, then the teacher needs to have a talk with him. ""For example countries like China have better high schools since high school is not required."" This does not necessarily mean that it is due to people dropping out of high school. It could be due to many other factors, such as the Chinese not having a long summer break, or staying in school more. And plus, this point is illogical and has absolutely no evidence to back it up. Why are high schools better when attendance to high school is not forced? How does that make sense? Seeing as my opponent's points are refuted, I will move onto my own arguments. Arguments 1. High school has a huge benefit. High school is the bridge to college. Without high school, kids will fail to learn necessary material such as math, science, history, and writing. You're missing four years of school. Think how much education and how much intelligence you will gain from those four years. Sure, you may not have as much freedom, but school is not a consequence. There are many people all over the world who yearn to go to school, but can't because they need to help their families make money. They don't see school as a bad thing, they desperately want to go there. 2. High school is the first step to your career job. Due to all the subjects involved in this type of school, 16 year olds begin to see they enjoy a particular subject, for example math. That leads to college, where the young adult begins to try a degree in that very subject. And in the end, it produces a fine, intelligent young adult that can further technology in the world and then pass that knowledge onto future mathematicians. Or, if you invest more research, study hours, and time in economics, then you can become a major businessman who helps the economy. And what if you study government? You could very well be a mayor, senator, governor, congressman, or even possibly, the next President of the United States. For these reasons, high school should stay mandatory. I await my opponent's response and would once again like to thank him for starting this debate."	CON	319
319	S1b21a2f2-Ac3c038b2	Free University Education	Sorry for the delay - I have been very busy recently.. Right, so I will argue that we should not have free university education. I will now present multiple reasons for this. 1. University is not a right The right to education is widely accepted and is upheld by the UN Declaration of Human Rights (1). Yet this right is only for education that is considered essential to be a productive citizen and to allow one to engage in the pursuit of happiness. University, in contrast, is a non-essential addition to core education. It is designed to educate the brightest in our society to do the most challenging jobs such as doctors, lawyers or architects. It is by no means designed, nor is it suitable, to be a form of education that should be provided to everyone as a right. So why should the government provide free university tuition if people don't have a right to it? 2. It is unfair on those who don't go to university In most cases, a university degree can be a huge help in getting a well paid job in the future, so it is only fair that if someone is going to get a financial benefit from going to university, then they should be expected to financially subsidise it. If university is free, then graduates gain a financial advantage whereas those who don't go to university will not get this advantage. This is unfair to the latter. If the financial advantage that graduates receive is balanced out by requiring them to pay for their tuition, then no group has a disadvantage. 3. It will devalue university education As it is, many students do not value university education and would rather use the experience as a chance to party and get drunk every night. The main reason that actually prevents most students from behaving like this is that they are paying £9000 a year for their education and so it is their own money, not the government's, that they are wasting. If this changed, and the state began to provide free university education, then students will naturally take this for granted, and use the three year course as a chance to have lots of sex, drugs and alcohol. After all, it's not like they're paying for it! 4. It will encourage more people to attend university This may sound like a good thing, but in our job climate it certainly isn't! Nearly 50% of people go to university (2) and this number is rising, yet only 27% of jobs require an associate degree. (3) So if university is made free, then we would be paying for thousands of people to be educated for jobs that do not exist. Free university would no doubt encourage university education, but this would further saturate the already saturated graduate-job market. Many graduates are unemployed because employers have begun to realise that work experience is often preferential to a degree. Moreover, encouraging young people to go to university will teach them the message that having a trade is not as worthy as a degree, despite the evidence suggesting otherwise. It also breeds a culture of entitlement where young people feel 'above' manual labour, and so employers have to recruit from third world countries to get unskilled labour. This further leads to overpopulation and a strain on public services that is the inevitable consequence of excessive immigration. Finally, too much university education in a competitive job market does young people a disservice. It polarises their job prospects so they are only willing to take specific jobs, for example if someone has a law degree then they will most likely only take jobs in the law industry, despite their being other jobs. Again, this leads to immigration as employers must look overseas in order to find people to do the jobs that graduates would rather not do. So ultimately, the last thing we want to do is encourage people to go to university! (1) http://www.un.org... (2) http://www.bbc.co.uk... (3) http://www.pbs.org...	CON	320
320	Sd68885cc-Ac1f11574	School does not an education make	Yet if kids aren't going to school anyway it doesn't matter if the schools are inadequate. Getting kids in schools is the first step to improving the education situation and the dropout rate. As long as we look at the education system in the US and around the world as dismal and overwhelming, nothing will change.	CON	321
321	S64c53e3d-Aec6244e6	Higher Education ought to be private and indiviuals ought to pay for it themselves.	"Rebuttal 1.Your right, every country needs experts. I am not sure what collapse of Germany you are referring to, considering that Germany still exists as a country and has a powerful economy. If you're referring to the economic problems it had after World War I, this was because Germany had economic turmoil from the devastation of World War I and also had to pay war reparations, as well as their own debt from war spending. This is the major theory for the source of Germany's problem, not the ‘lack of experts' that CON has claimed, without any proof. However, although shortages of experts are bad; surpluses of experts are bad for the following reasons: a.A surplus of experts causes their wages to decrease (economic theory of supply of demand) b.This artificial surplus will cause employers to hire cheap experts than use more efficient ways to produce goods and services instead. For example, a surplus in medical professions might cause a hospital less likely to invest in technology or medical supplies, or other companies might be less likely to invest in technology. (Ex: Software that cause solve mathematical problems, simulators, etc.) CON also mentions that those from poor backgrounds will not be able to afford an education. However there are many ways a person can pay for an education. One can get a loan from a bank. Since one is expected to obtain more money after graduating, this is an investment for the higher educated graduate, and will benefit him or her in the end. Potential employers can finance one's education, since these employers will benefit from a better worker. Military personnel can pay for college in exchange for them to serve a certain amount of time in the services. Private charities can offer financial aid and scholarship to those who want a higher education. Also, those that come from ""rich"" families might not even decide to get a higher education, since he or she might feel better investing money in other forms, rather than for education itself. This is what I mean by ""education as an investment"". By deciding whether it is more profitable to invest in companies or one's own ability and through what medium, one can make effective choices that allocate resources that overall benefit everyone. This is essential how one can create the balance between having too many experts or too few experts and how much education should cost (Ex: Online schools are becoming increasingly popular due to it being a lot less inexpensive compared to traditional forms of education). 2) CON has not cited any examples or sources of these regulations so I do not have anything to refute. I expect CON to show these examples or sources in the next round, otherwise this point is null. 3) CON actually shows some support here of private education. 16% of Denmark's populations go to private education. I would also like to note that point: ""All men are born equal and everyone should have the same opportunity!"" and ""If you're not satisfied with free University and you have money and you don't want to someone else pays for you can always go to Private University"" contradict oneself, since the option of private university is a different opportunity based on your logic that the poor cannot finance private education for oneself. The fact that there are protests for privatization of education is irreverent, since it is an Argumentum ad populum fallacy (appeal to the majority). There are also protests for lowering taxes, something that can be achieved if education is privatized. The KKK also protests white supremacy. That does not mean that white supremacy is overall good? No."	PRO	322
322	Sccfc1c03-Aea41e9b5	Localize Education- get rid of the Department of Education and Common Core	"Thanks, Pro- Pro has argued that as implemented by the Dept of Education, the Common Core initiative represents a complete appropriation of State and Local authority over classroom standards, policy, and curricula in violation of the 10th Ammendment. At present, Pro insists, there is only one (Federal) educational standard where there ought to be 50 State standards, inhibiting dynamism in educational policy. Pro recommends the elimination of the Dept of the Education and the discontinuation of Common Core as the only corrections necessary to empower a diversity of State education plans. Note that Pro does not qualify these statements. Pro flatly states that the Department of Education has ""complete control,"" that Common Core is a universal requirement, that Federal law issues fines against non-compliant states. Con's counter argument is that Pro's characterization of the US Education system is profoundly inaccurate, that most decision-making about schools is made at the level of school boards and therefore already far more diversified than Pro's 50 state solution. If there were only 50 curricula in 50 state, schools would be less diverse and therefore less dynamic than the status quo. Con's argument has no merit because that argument is predicated on the notion of a National conformity that simply does not exist. Did the Dept. of Education implement Common Core? No. ""Myth: The Common Core State Standards are a federally mandated curriculum- The 1965 Elementary and Secondary Education Act forbids the Federal government from intervening in school curriculum development. States independently adopted the Common Core, a set of math and English Language Arts standards for K-12 students to reach by the end of each grade level. School districts design the curricula, and teachers create their own methods for instruction, selecting the resources best tailored to their lessons."" [1] Does Common Core amount to a National Curriculum? No. ""The Common Core is not a curriculum. It is a clear set of shared goals and expectations for what knowledge and skills will help our students succeed. Local teachers, principals, superintendents, and others will decide how the standards are to be met. Teachers will continue to devise lesson plans and tailor instruction to the individual needs of the students in their classrooms."" [2] In essence, Common Core is just a new State standard achievement test, which every State required long before Common Core. The difference is that 45 States decided to use the same test for math and English for the purposes of efficiency and improved inter-comparability. Does that imply greater educational conformity in those 2 subjects among those 45 states? Probably, but States benefit by conformity in all kinds of public services without necessarily surrendering their capacity for innovation and competition. Does the Department of Education require Common Core or fine States that don't adopt? No, that's against the law. ""The Every Student Succeeds Act allows states to adopt Common Core but does not require it. In fact, it requires the Education Department to remain neutral: ""The Secretary shall not attempt to influence, incentivize, or coerce State adoption of the Common Core State Standards developed under the Common Core State Standards Initiative or any other academic standards common to a significant number of States, or assessments tied to such standard."" [3] A number of States like Virginia and Texas never adopted Common Core, while others like Indiana and Oklahoma gave up Common Core. Federal Education disbursements to non-Common Core States consistent before and after rejecting Common Core and certainly no fines have been levied for failure to adopt Common Core. Furthermore, the continued diversity and autonomy of school curricula across the country serves as proof that the kind of localized education Pro hopes to one day attain, in fact, already exists and to a greater degree than merely 50 plans for 50 states. Some examples: Although letter grading remains the norm, many school systems are experimenting with different scales. M.S. 442 in Brooklyn uses a green/yellow/red scale. Schools in Kentucky, Oregon, Kansas, and Hawaii are shifting to standards based grading as are the 3 largest cities in California. [4] About 20% of public school require school uniforms, although there are no State level mandates. [5] Although yoga has become a popular Phys Ed elective in many West Coast school districts, some Southern schools have banned yoga from the curriculum [6] Chicago Public Schools require sex ed. for every grade K-12 while only 40% of schools nationwide require at least some sex education before graduation. [7] When it comes to teaching controversial political topics like religion, gender, labor, climate change, evolution the range of regional education practices is quite diverse and well demonstrates the independent authority of local school boards. How could such polarity exist if a single national standard were anything close to true? To the extent that Con has demonstrated that the American Education system is today significantly localized, with State and local govts retaining far more significant control over school policy, budgets, and curriculum than ant Federal authority Pro's characterization of American Education is shown to be inaccurate. His recommendations to dispose of Common Core and the Department of Education are not only unnecessary remedies but likewise based on inaccurate assessments of those institutions' functions and jurisdictions. Pro's case must be found to be without merit. My thanks again to Pro for raising this topic."	CON	323
323	S1ec571b6-Aa23fca29	Should We Keep The Electoral College	"Once again, why are you saying that third party candidates are bad. And Bernie being a serious candidate is a whole new debate, also, correct me if I am wrong, are you saying that it is good that the EC makes it harder for third party candidates. What I said is it is bad that we have a 2 party system and we do not give other parties a chance. States like California are unimportant because they are safe states. Only swing states matter in elections, for example, New Hampshire is important because it is a swing state and every point matters, but that does not mean all small states are important, do you think states like Wyoming or South Dakota receive 1 visit from either candidate, no. And as I said before, if we had the popular vote, then candidate will have to care about every state, because they know they can still get some votes out of that state. You did say Virginia was a small state, if i may quote you, ""New Mexico, Virginia, New Hampshire, and Colorado,"" all small states, have a larger effect on voting outcomes than other states, but that is not important. Just wanted to tell you what you said. Winner take all is unfair for states. As I said, all a candidate needs is half + 1 and he gets all the electoral points, they do this in 48 states, and that is unfair. It should be a popular vote because if a candidate only gets 49% of the votes in that state, he still gets a lot of votes, and as you all have seen in elections, winning just over half in some important states have one them the election. If we do the popular vote, then the candidates won't care about swing states, they will care about voters, how it should be. People all across this nation should win candidates the election, not only the people in Ohio, Florida, and Virginia. This is not a debate about who would have ran this country better, a monkey, or Al Gore, this is a debate about the electoral college. I am sorry I lead it that way but lets end it please. Though just read this and think about it, don;t respond because I don;t want to start a new debate, but think about it. http://www.alternet.org... I will like to make my final statement, the electoral college does not make it a battle over what the people like, but who the people in important states like. Candidates all ready assume who they are going to win and who they are not going to win, for example, democrats would all ready assume they are going to win California, Washington, Oregon, DC, and new England, so they cross that out of their campaign visits, and they all ready know they are not going to win Texas, Louisiana, Alabama, Mississippi, and Oklahoma, so they cross that out, they only care about the swing states, If we us the popular vote, they will care about every body. For example, California, safe state for democrats in the electoral college, in the popular vote, California gets republicans 4 million votes. And Texas, safe state for Republicans in the electoral college, 3 million votes for the democrats in the popular vote. Thank you 16kadams for this debate, I will like to see your response."	CON	324
324	S55c05f7c-A3474ec51	The Electoral College Should be Abolished	Thanks for accepting my debate Con! Minority vote per state bears no weight In the Electoral College (EC), every state votes one way or the other, meaning that the presidential vote for that state is determined by over 50% of the voters voting for that candidate. This makes it so that if 51% of the voters in a certain state vote for one candidate while the other 49% of voters vote for the other candidate, then the 51% is what determines the outcome of that state’s decision. Immediately we see a flaw in this system, the 49% of the votes don’t count as a vote towards the president at all. That minority vote has no effect whatsoever on the outcome of the election. As we examine the politics of each state, we notice that each state votes differently based on how urban and how rural the state is. States with more urban populations tend to vote Democrat, while rural states trend Republican. Let’s take Illinois for example. Illinois virtually always votes Democrat because of the urban population of Chicago. Since most of the people in that state live in Chicago, the state is solid blue and Republican voters in the rural part of the state are always swept over by the overwhelming vote in Chicago. This is the cause of why many people do not vote at all, because they know their votes will have no effect since a very urban city such as Chicago is also representing their state. Even some Democratic voters know that participating in the election is pointless seeing as how their state is already solid blue. If we abolish the electoral college, more people will vote in the presidential elections. Swing states are the ones who really determine each election. In the last several elections, the only states whose votes make a difference are Virginia, Florida, and Ohio. The major flaw of the electoral college is that if you want your vote to count the most, you need to move to a swing state. If you remain in a solid state, your vote will have a much lesser effect if any on the next president. Unequal population representation We know that citizens in toss up states are the ones who decide the outcome of each election, but the people in “safe” states have a bit of a chance if and only if their electoral votes exceed those of other states which have less votes in relation to population. As of the 2004 election, Colorado had nine times the population as Wyoming, but only three times the electoral votes[1]. The weight of a vote in Wyoming is more than the weight of a vote in Colorado. The Constitution guarantees ever state, no matter how small, at least three votes in the EC. Small states wield a disproportionate share of clout when choosing a president. This may be a little too generous for smaller states. Some people argue that the EC keeps larger states from getting too powerful in elections. However, a popular vote would make sure that no state, large or small, would ever get too powerful. It would be a perfect system in this regard, unlike the EC. A vote in Wyoming would be equal to a vote in California. Such it is that the number of electoral votes is inaccurate to the population of each state. Yet, the EC has done this so that a minority President can be elected. President with minority vote still gets in In the 2000 Presidential Election, George W. Bush was elected despite the fact that he did not win the popular vote. Although Al Gore won 560,000 more votes than Bush[2], Bush grabbed 30 states while Gore took the remaining 20 plus the District of Columbia. This clearly shows that the EC is an inaccurate representation of democracy and won’t always elect the candidate with the popular request to take office. In fact, it is possible to win the presidency with 21.91% of the population voting for you and 78.09% voting against you[3]. This is possible because the EC grants small states more electoral votes in proportion to the population of those small states in relation to big states. Third party candidates get nothing Third party candidates are hardly ever represented in the EC. In fact, some third party votes usually tweak the voting outcome of a state, pushing both the Republican and Democrat candidates below 50% so that a Libertarian or Green candidate can get 2 or 3% of the vote. In some state elections, the outcome has been 49% - 49% - 2%. Since none of the candidates received majority vote, a runoff election is triggered making it so that in a future election only two candidates are on the ballot, while the third party runner is discarded and does not receive a single electoral vote. If a direct popular vote replaces the EC, a third party candidate will receive more of the vote, maybe 100,000 votes nationwide and 1% of the nation’s vote. This is much more fair to that candidate because at least he or she was considered in the results of the national election. In short, there is not one mob rule in this system, but fiftymob rules. A winner-takes-all system based on the region of space you are living in is unfair to the people living both in that space and outside of it. The whole nation will benefit from abolishing the Electoral College and all of the problems that once existed with it will be gone. Sources 1. http://en.wikipedia.org... 2. http://www.dflorig.com...	PRO	325
325	S4ef7a9a4-Aab855f1e	Parents should be required to pay for their offsprings's college education.	The parents have spent a lot to take care of you in the past 18 years. They also have their own expense needs to be cover and save up for their retirement. You can take couple years off and apply for financial aid from the federal government, grants from school and other organizations. I made it, so do many others. I believe you can, as well!	CON	326
326	S4ef7a9a4-A5e0d217d	Parents should be required to pay for their offsprings's college education.	The parents have made an investment to raise their kids because it was their choice to have children and do so. I simply think that they should be obligated to finish what they started. I realize that they my have their own expenses, but if they were responsible they should've anticipated this necessity to help ensure their kids' financial success in life. I congratulate you for making it, but the point of this debate is not about being able to make it on your own. It is about the obligatory responsibilities parents owe their offspring.	PRO	327
327	Sadecd01c-A98037d3d	The life of an adult has more intrinsic worth than that of a child.	"I agree with the definitions. The opponent sets up a rule: The life of an adult has more intrinsic worth than that of a child. Any case in which an adult has less intrinsic worth than a child would invalidate the rule. With this in mind, the burden of proof is solely on the opponent. Here is my general framework for my responses to the arguments put forward: 1. In some cases, adults cannot ""invest resources"" as efficiently as children. 2. In some cases, adults are not as ""cognitively aware"" as children. 3. In some cases, adults have fewer social connections than children--and in some cases, they cannot make social connections (by standard definition) at all. My goal will be to break the rule set up by the opponent. That, in itself, would lead to a victory in this debate. Thank you."	CON	328
328	Sb1cf8ab-A201fbc3f	Direct popular vote should replace the electoral college in U.S. presidential elections.	"Pro wasn't supposed to post his questions till next round but thats alright, that just gives us an extra round of debate in between CX and the Final Focus. Sorry for all the structure, anyways back to the debate! The following answers are in response to my opponent's questions from round 2 (his questions first then my responses): 1) Were the Founding Fathers always right? No 2) Could the Founding Fathers have predicted the distortion in our democracy today? Yes, because they purposefully caused the distortion to protect the interests of states with small populations. 3) You said ""Any form of democracy is not desirable because it assists in the gradual destruction of a republican government..."". So please explain why our citizens vote at all if democratic voting is inherently detrimental. Citizens vote because according to my definition of Republic, citizens elect their representative to make decisions for them. 4) Please cite an instance in the U.S. that democracy has turned ""into a government rule of the few that denies individual liberties""? There are no instances in the U.S. since the U.S. is not a democracy. However according to the John Birch Society's documentary, Overview of America, ""the founders had good reason to look upon democracy with contempt because they knew the democracy of the early Greek city-states produced some of the wildest excesses of government imaginable. In every case they ended up with mob rule, then anarchy and finally tyranny under an oligarchy."" 5) Was the Bill of Rights not meant to protect individual liberties? Yes, the Bill of Rights was meant to protect individual liberties. 6) Can we not have democracy and liberties? No, we cannot have democracy and liberties. 7) Why do smaller states have to be represented disporportionately? They aren't, they are represented proportionally by being given a voice in elections. Otherwise, they would be drowned out by larger states. See my source from Bruce Walker in response to question 12. 8) Wouldn't small states shall have their voice, their vote, during elections? I dont fully understand this question due to the wording, anyways the people would still have their vote, but their cumulation of votes for the state they are in wouldn't be able to compete with the cumulation of votes for the larger states. (also refer to my example in response to questin #15) 9) Shouldn't the most citizens be represented? a.k.a the larger states? No, the most citizens should not be represented if that representation results in democratization or the loss of rights for small states. 10) In an era of media, it is necessary for all citizens to get up close and personal to each and every single candidate? No? There is a difference between campaigning in a state and meeting every person in that state. For example, television commercials. 11) Is the Electoral College not, in essence, a direct popular vote by state? Yes, it is a direct popular vote of the electors that represent that state. 12) Why should a vote in Wyoming be worth 4 times as much as a vote in California? So that the state of Wyoming has a voice in presidential elections and isn't drowned out by California. Bruce Walker, author of American Thinker affirms this by saying, ""The National Popular Vote Compact is supposed to solve two problems. Voters in small states have votes that count more than voters in large states. This is not a ""problem,"" however, but rather an important safeguard granted by the Constitution to protect smaller states."" 13) What is the ideal vote value? 1, however, what is ideal and what is required are often different things. 14) As you well know I'm sure, in the Bush/Gore election, the crucial votes in Florida came down to a few electors. Would we even want to chance the outcome of an entire presidential election by giving all the power to just a few people? The electors were influenced by the votes of the people and submitted their electoral votes according to what the citizens of their state wanted. There were no ""faithless electors"". 15) Should voting power be porpotional to population? No, they should be porpotional to area/state. Let me provide an example. In this hypothetical scenario the Electoral College no longer exists and is replaced by direct popular vote. Lets say one of the two major candidates makes a campaign promise that helps California. And the other candidate makes a campaign promise that helps Wyoming. But since there is no Electoral College, the votes of the people of Wyoming are drowned out by those of California and the candidate with the promise that helps California wins. And now to move on to my questions, my opponent must answer each question: 1) Can you please explain the piece of evidence that you keep repeating that says, ""A vote in Wyoming is worth approximately 4 times as much as a vote in California?"" or provide a link to the evidence so I can further understand what it is saying. 2) According to the only proposed definitions, is America a Democracy or a Republic? 2a) If America is a Republic, then how can your first contention still stand if it is based on a democratic America? 3) Do you agree that direct popular vote represents the popular majority? 3a) If we become obsessed with government by popular majority as the only consideration, should we not then abolish the Senate which represents states regardless of population? 3b) If there are reasons to maintain state representation in the Senate as it exists today, shouldn't those same reasons apply to the choice of president? 3c) Then why apply a sentimental attachment to the popular majorities only in relation to the Electoral College? 4) According to the resolutions wording, ""direct popular vote should replace the electoral college,"" is the burden of proof placed upon Pro? Which means that Pro must not only prove the problems of the electoral college, but also explain HOW DIRECT POPULAR VOTE FIXES THOSE PROBLEMS. 4a) If one of your attacks against the electoral college cannot be solved by direct popular vote, is the contention containing the attack and contentions relating to the attack void? 4b) In defense of your third contention, you said ""my opponent fails to realize that the Electoral College ALSO has integral flaws."" Does this quote suggest that direct popular vote doesn't solve the problem of candidates focusing on a few closely contested states discussed in your third contention? 5) If the Constitution isn't applicable today then is the Supreme Court's ruling on the Constitutionality of laws applicable? I urge a negative ballot."	CON	329
329	Se0dd9576-Ac12d3012	are the constant phone tappings and violations of privacy worth it? (adressing the NSA and PRISM)	I say that the spying and the invasion of our privacy is worth it to protect us. State your case.	PRO	330
330	Se78f47fa-Ad0993c9f	In the United States, the costs of a college education outweigh the benefits	Extend my arguments. I urge an affirmative vote.	PRO	331
331	S5d3f8690-A9d10d09	Curent high school education should not be mandatory	"I thank my opponent for his response. Refutations ""Rather they either provide goods or services that benefit society, find ways to reduce prices of goods or services, or fund the two... Also, those that provide goods and services that benefit society, also receive money for themselves, so these people have self-interest to go to either high school or college."" It would seem that my opponent completely agrees with me here. People who graduate from high school continue on to college to pursue an academic subject they enjoy. Then they graduate from college or learn a large amount of knowledge and then start their career. To get a job, you must attend high school. No one hires a 14 or 15 year old fresh from middle school. There must be very little experience or intelligence in that person if he drops out of school after middle school. My opponent has let up on this point, so I must say that one of my most solid arguments is that going to high school later benefits society. ""In my opening topic I did not state that high school is not useful. I stated that high school should not be mandatory."" So since it is useful, shouldn't it be mandatory? I don't understand the argument here. ""Jobs like janitors, construction workers, drivers, garbage collectors, mailman and cashiers do not have to learn this information. Even service industry jobs such as chiefs, hair/nail stylists, actors, entertainers and musicians still do not have to learn this information."" This is wrong. Just because you think someone isn't going to make it far in life, we should simply abandon them? And just let them fail in society? In high school, there are things you learn about government such as social security, Medicaid, and other important subjects. Imagine if a large amount of our world was run by eighth grade graduates. They simply do not understand enough about the economy, international relations, and society to run government. In America, people vote for who they want as the president. What if these people vote for the most ignorant candidate? And he eventually becomes our president? We need to have these people go to high school so that they can learn about society and so they can live comfortably on their own. As I previously stated, no one would offer a job to a middle school graduate. So all those occupations you previously listed, won't exist because no one is hiring an eighth grader. ""Why would dropping out of school lead to a life of crime?"" How else do you make money? Without education, you will do bad things to get money. No one hires a middle schooler. ""Should I help somebody go to the Justin Bieber concert, if one does not want to go to it? Should I help someone to have sex, if one does not want to have sex? Should I help someone go to school who doesn't want to?"" Yes, indeed, you should. Because there is a benefit in that action. There is not benefit in taking someone to a horrible Justin Bieber (shudder) concert and the second inappropriate action doesn't do anything at all. That's rape, which is illegal. ""If you take notice here: http://4brevard.com...... notice that the countries that perform better than the United States at the very least have a division in high school, between vocational school and preparation for college tracks. Also, explain why American universities are considered to be the best in the world while our high schools are mediocre?"" This is very interesting. Because, in that exact website, when you look under ""Causes for Failure,"" you will find the answer. How peculiar that it says that ""the biggest deficits are found at the middle school level."" That's the school right before high school! The greatest weakness is at middle school. You even said that countries that perform better HAVE a division in high school. So high school clearly is important to do well in education. Why the US has the best universities but poor high schools is irrelevant to this topic. ""This rebuttal is absurd, since it assumes that this resolution creates a chaotic society. Murder, rape trespassing, slander, and stealing will still be illegal."" Let me remind you what I had refuted. I refuted the idea that school infringes on the freedom of others. There are many things in society that infringe upon the freedom of people. So should we eliminate all these things because of lack of freedom? No, because then people could do whatever they want and they can commit crimes and most people will. Don't laws restrict freedom? I guess they do, so we should eliminate them! No, that's the completely wrong idea. Why not get rid of school completely because it restricts freedom? My main refutation is that just because something restricts an amount of freedom doesn't mean you should get rid of it. School is not a jail sentence, it is a privilege to go to school. ""As far as I'm concerned, I do not see how not going to school is harming anyone else in the world."" As far as I'm concerned, I do not see how going to school will harm anyone in the world. And plus, you get the benefits, too. ""I also do not understand why one cannot discover their passion on their own, rather than have school discover them for you."" Do you see American children running around with textbooks on their free time? No, we have schools to teach children because children would not want to learn things themselves and would rather just play a video game or have fun with friends. High school is mandatory for the exact same reason. School is there to help someone realize that they enjoy a particular subject. Without school, do you think we would have engineers, physicists, or government officials? Not at all. K-8 subjects are simply the pre-form of bigger topics such as physics and engineering. Without math, you wouldn't understand any of this. Without history, you can't understand government very well. ""I also do not understand why one cannot discover their passion on their own, rather than have school discover them for you. If one truly enjoys something, it should not require school for someone to pursuit or find their passion."" One will not find the answer by him/herself. No one truly enjoys studying, especially for the first time. School helps people learn something they enjoy and in college, they can invest more time in. My response to your last paragraph: Persuasive essays are much like debating. You're trying to make convincing arguments. I don't see the difference between a debate in real life to a debate.org one. Good conduct is required in real life and online in debates. It's odd that you cite yourself and your mother. Arguments Going to high school helps the average American's earnings. According to ""By the Numbers,"" the average hourly earnings of an American high school drop out decreased from about $13 to about $10. However, since the 1970s, it has been found that those who earned an advanced degree received an increase of 20% in earnings. If you go to high school and then move onto college instead of dropping out, you will receive benefits, namely money, and everyone loves money [1]. Benefits of high school: 1. Reasonable education 2. A job 3. More money (from job) 4. More informed about society and know how government works What I am arguing is that high school is beneficial to people and therefore, students should attend. Source: 1. http://www.boisestate.edu..."	CON	332
332	Sd0766dd3-A192413e7	Electoral college	"The Electoral College is a hybrid of direct democracy. No candidate would have won without the popular vote. the EC works on a confusing mix of politics and the public vote is a key part of that. Con doesn't seem to get that voting for Electors and Joe Schmoe is basically the same thing. ""Unfaithful Electors"" are rare, and some states have laws to deter them. Never was there a election was sidetracked from them. Con might say that there is a capacity of a election being sidetracked, and I would say he is correct. However, so can popular vote. So can a lot of elections can be sidetracked. A unfaithful elector can spell victory for one man and defeat for another in the same way a person could in popular vote. The EC ensures that the winner is fit for the job. Rarely will an Elector not vote anyone but who they are pledged to. They are diehards in their political party, and only not vote or whatever when making a point or a message. There should be no question that these electors who are voted in would vote anyone other then who they are pledged to. That being said, they are also there to ensure that the winner has at least fit for the job, lest the American people elect a total idiot. Now, I will lay out the frame work of what will be my rebuttals to Con. Here on out, Con will be in Bold. When the electoral college (EC) and the national popular vote (NPV) produce the same outcome, EC is an unnecessary complication in the process. When outcomes differ, NPV's outcome is right and EC's outcome is wrong. Either way, you have a reason to choose NPV and none to choose EC. Con asserts that EC would be wrong in their outcome, and NPV is right. Con doesn't say why this is, but I guess that comes later. Nothing much else here. You will find that NPV is justified by an uncontroversial principle and a coherent, mathematically valid argument, Personally, I think Con has much too trust in Democracy to the point of it being his argument. I find that silly that Con regards single issue voters or people who don't know basic facts about candidates is better then people who do. Again, Con asserts, but doesn't say why. EC is an unnecessary political compromise justified only by points that are fallacious individually and do not form a coherent argument collectively. And there is no way to derive EC from a solid theoretical foundation without doing incredible mental gymnastics. The EC is in no way flawless, but it is so that the next president is at least experienced in politics and I would argue it puts less focus on Urban areas and more or less other states. A smaller state would have a bigger impact under EC then in NPV. The purpose of any kind of election is to make a decision that represents the will of the voters. (To aggregate preferences, in more formal terms.) There is simply no other reason to have an election, except to deceive people by creating the illusion of democracy. I would think Con wouldn't agree with America electing Hitler Jr., so I would say it is to have a leader to lead. Sure, having the will of the people is heard, but that doesn't mean it is alright to elect an idiot, or Hitler Jr. Elections are there to elect someone trained enough to lead. There been quite a bit of faithless electors in the 1800s, but generally it is because they want to make a point or they made a typo Therefore, if NPV satisfies the criterion of majority rule when EC fails (over half of voters prefer A over B; NPV selects A over B; EC selects B over A), then you should choose NPV. Actually, there is no reason to believe that if NPV is right, then EC must be wrong. Con seems to think that NPV is infallible, which is just flat out wrong. The EC is there to ensure the right guy is elected, and Con doesn't seem to know that Electors almost never vote anyone other than Blah Blah. Voting NPV and the EC are basically the same thing, only that the EC ensure some quality. I'm starting to run out of space, so I will address whatever next round."	PRO	333
333	Sb1cf8ab-Ad895280d	Direct popular vote should replace the electoral college in U.S. presidential elections.	"This debate is becoming more and more distorted, somewhat like the Electoral College. Though I will do my best to follow my opponent's Fourth Round statement and reply. ""In response to my second question he said that America is a Democratic Republic, which is a type of Republic which means that America is in fact a Republic. However in response to question 2a he says that it is not applicable since america isnt a Republic but in the previous question he confirmed that America is a Republic."" The United States is not a democracy, it is not a republic, it is a democratic republic. ""In 3a he says that the Senate should not be ablolished because it serves the states. However, if you apply his answer of 3a to the question of 3b it would say that since the Senate should not be abolished because it protects states rights shouldnt the electoral college not be abolished because it protects state rights?"" The Senate of the U.S. Congress and the Electoral College are two very different topics. The Senate represents the states, the Electoral College is a presidential election device. This is illogical. The Electoral College does not protect small states, it damages some such as Indiana. The direct popular vote gives a porportional voice to all states. I'll attempt to make this as clear as possible for you: 1- Electoral College protects some states, hurts others 2- Popular vote gives porportional voice to all states 3-The U.S. Senate is an entirely different topic ""The sentimental attachment to popular majorities only in relation to the Electoral College basically means that if you have no reason to abolish the Senate even though it doesnt represent popular majority, then why only apply rights of the popular majority in attacking the electoral college?"" Again, the Senate is an entirely different topic. Senate serves the states, the House the people. The Electoral College is a presidential election device, stick to the resolution. The burden of proof still lies upon me to prove that the Direct Popular Vote should replace the Electoral College in presidential elections. I have shown how each of my contentions fixes fundamental flaws in the Electoral College. """"the Electoral College ALSO has integral flaws"" which means that he is implying that direct popular vote has integral flaws which means that it DOESNT fix the problem proposed by PRO in his third contention which makes his third contention void."" I don't follow you at all here. The Electoral College and the Direct Popular Vote are very different. ""if the Constitution is still applicable today (for example the Supreme Courts ruling of the Constitutionaliy of laws), then why is the Constitution not applicable only for the Electoral College? I would like to ask my opponent to briefly answer this question now that it has been clarified along with question 3c."" The original Constitution has been changed and altered many times. Each part of the Constitution has been reviewed at one time or another. Simply because one part is distorted does not mean the entire Constitution is distorted. ""Founding Fathers could have seen distortion since they purposefully placed it there. -Then let's fix the distortion. Electoral College is no longer applicable, but the rest of the Constitution is? How is the Electoral College no longer applicable, we still have citizens, states and a Federal government dont we? -Just because one part of the Constitution is debatable does not mean we have to remove the entirety of the Constitution. Don't be illogical. Impact is the harmful effects of democracy. -What harmful effects? You've failed to show any actual effects. Democracy is as harmful now as it was in the 1770s."" - What harmful effects? ""Refutations: Contention 1: Distorts our democratic process We are a republic not a democracy. --- We are a Democratic Republic. a) Imbalance of power voting was purposefully placed to protect small states. --- It also damages small states. b) Distortion must not be solved since it will result in the loss of small states influence in presidential elections."" ---- Instead of prioritizing Iowa and New Hampshire above all else, let's give each state a porportional voice. ""Contention2: The Electoral College is subject to the whims of the few rather than the public as a whole. That is the purpose of a Republic. 99% of electors vote accordingly to how they pledged. (U.S. Electoral College FAQ's) a) If it aint broke dont fix it. Faithless electors have never decided an election."" Why should we even take the chance of giving 3 people the power to change the outcome of a presidential election? ""Contention 3: The Electoral College forces candidates to ignore the majority of states and focus on a few closely contested battleground states, instead of the nation. I agree that this is a negative impact of the electoral college; however, as stated in my second contention, direct popular vote wouldn't be able to fix this problem either which he admits to be saying ""the Electoral College ALSO has integral flaws."" Therefore, his third contention is void."" Yes, the Electoral College has integral flaws, that is exactly why we must switch to the Direct popular vote. My third contention is not void in this manner. Direct Popular Vote, as I've said many many times, would fix this problem. It would make candidates speak to the nation, not just Iowa or New Hampshire. Let's give every state a porportional voice, vote Pro. I'll be honest, I did my best to follow my opponents rebuttals but they were rather twisted and difficult to follow. Regardless, I urge a vote in the affirmative."	PRO	334
334	S863dddcf-A993181f7	Formal education (K-12) ought to be compulsory in the United States	"Con C3 1. It's a completely rational thought and I explained why. Pro says that the need for degrees is rising due to global competition. Even if it was, that has nothing to do with the resolve because it clearly says in the US. It also is untrue because no source was provided and it's not a sound argument. Need for more advanced degrees is arising from more people receiving college education and getting their college degree for these specialized jobs which pro noted. However, it caught on though and many started getting college degrees. Competition could/is become/ing ridiculous. I'm not saying this should be considered as an argument but it is valid. 2. Your logic is to force feed those who cannot feed themselves or maybe those who don't want to eat. Not practical. Some people are bound to go hungry in both a pro and con world. That being said, education is still readily available in both a pro and con world. There would still be local school districts, public and private. Parents can enroll them there and voila. Pro keeps talking about the inconsistent adequacy of parenting but I refer to my analogy again. Parents provide food to their children; we can't say all but we can assume that it's natural to do so and the majority do. Food is a need. We can assume that most will provide education as well. I now present my final focus and would like to summarize *key points* in the debate. This round will not be used for constructive rebuttals or new arguments. However, new evidence may be provided. My opponent and I agreed on this so keep it in mind, voters. #1: Providing for the Underserved Original pro Argument: Without things like truancy laws, the poorest and most underserved students in the nation would be the ones to suffer without an education. Pro put a lot of value on these underserved children and held the position that CE is a benefit to them while non-CE is harmful. Pro defended the position with the following arguments. 1. Laws pertaining to CE get them to school. 2. Non-CE will deny E to them. 3. Blowing off the underserved is a violation of US rights. I defeated them accordingly. 1. Non-CE is still open to everyone which includes the underserved. 2. This argument was loosely based off my analogy, ""Education is a need. Food is a need. Both are needs. However, we don't see a law that says it's illegal not to eat because it's a person's right to decide that; just like it's a person's right to decide whether or not they wish to follow through with formal education."" Voters, re-read pro's attempted refutation in RD3 and you will see she clearly misinterpreted it which is why I rightfully labeled it as a strawman; she weakened my version of the argument by saying kids were being denied it but offered no insight as to how or why. 3. The underserved are not being blown off when we negate because no one is being blown off since both non-CE and CE are open to everyone. I've explained numerous times that the availability aspect of E (also, consider pro believes E to be a need) debunks the need for it to be compulsory. This goes hand in hand with my analogy. Pro defines E as a need. Food is also a need. There is no law against not eating even though it's clearly necessary to live as education is. #2: Education/Food Analogy Original argument posted above. Pro could not defeat this argument despite effort. I extend through with it as it destroys the pro side benefits. #3: CE yields more diplomas Original pro argument: If a student without a diploma can't earn a living wage, then you vote Pro because I give more people diplomas. Con response: You cannot prove that E, when made C, yields higher rates of graduation compared to non-compulsory education. Pro response: It's not even a logical stretch to say that [CE] will lead to more kids attending school, which leads to more kids with diplomas. Apply my analogy and the fact that pro considers E a need. It is not required by law to eat but just about everyone does anyway. Think the same for education. Pro failed to prove her point; points go to con. #4: CE vs. non-CE benefits weighing Pro benefits: provides to the underserved, ensures everyone a chance at education, yields more diplomas. All of these are just as possible within a con world and I explained why. Con benefits include further focus on education, not support and elimination of trivial truancy cases. The first con benefit is not possible in a pro world due to tax money being poured into schools to help the underserved rather than improve education for the majority. The second con benefit is clearly not possible in a pro world; truancy laws are a waste of time and in a con world, we avoid them. #5: Pro equates CE to public schooling Original argument: With regards to privatization, that is the only alternative to CE, since CE = public schools. I cannot argue against this because it would be a new argument but that doesn't change how puzzling this assertion is. Pro, you may not explain it either because we agreed on no new arguments. Conclusion: I have already proved through my rebuttals that con is the better choice. Now, in my final focus, I exhaustively conclude that con has won every single key point of this debate with reasons to back up my claims. Pro was a worthy debater but pro's arguments failed to achieve as much as mine. With the following information provided and all arguments considered, I strongly urge a con ballot. Thank you for the debate, pro. Thank you for reading the debate, voters."	CON	335
335	S1db3eaf8-Aa1fba13d	university education should be free	Individuals have a right to the experience of higher education	PRO	336
336	S7239d5ee-A973dd0a4	Education is perception of skills	Let me explain my point of view with an example: my mom cooked a nice dinner, served me beautifully, even feed me with her own hands but ultimately I have to chew it, engulf it and digest it. Same is with education; we are provided with education, it's up to us whether we chew it properly or not, whether we are digesting it or not. Here we need perception. When I saw food, I perceived it to be tasty and ate it. If I see bitter gourd which I dislikes than I cannot eat it. It depends solely on perception. If our sense of right and wrong i.e. perception says that what we learnt is not good so we would not adapt it in life. Thus quality depends on perception; quality begins with perception. An optimist believes that he is living in best of the worlds… a pessimist fears this to be true! When we transcends from our social prejudices, the false notions that we withhold, when we look beyond the cobwebs of our culture, that have groped us, that have taken hold, everything comes down to our perception. Perception is how we look at the things or own general outlook. It is our outlook that determines anything reality and value both of which are some of the many meanings of quality. Quality is relative virtue, based solely on perception. Look at this world from the eyes of pessimist, and you will see a world where everyone is born free but taxed to death. But look this world from the side of optimist, and you will see something so good, pure, beautiful, and valuable and awe inspiring that no language could describe it in words! Thus quality begins with perception… and as I said before, but skills are not quality they are ability…so perception is not at all related to skills. Educational innovations certainly do not come about automatically. They have to be invented, planned, initiated and implemented in a way that will make educational practices more adequately geared to the changing objectives of instruction and make them more consistent with the changing standards of instructions. (Here planning and perception have different meanings.) Skills are developed by passion, planning…. Not by educational perception. There are many people with skills and with knowledge and with an urge to succeed but somehow the urge is not forceful enough. Rather not passionate enough! Success and skills comes to people who are passionate about it… We don't starts learning the spare parts of bicycle before sitting on the seat of bicycle… We just ride it, practice to balance it, and gradually we develop skills to ride it… Where has education taken part here? It is so rightly said that essence of true education lies in drawing very best in you. but does the present system of education lives up to this ideal?	CON	337
337	Sf49a4f1e-Ada2743d2	An animal's life is worth just as much as a human's.	My first argument is that our pets have saved many, many human lives in the past. There are many counts of dogs and cats (especially dogs) saving their owners from a variety of dangers. Dogs have defended humans from wild animals, fires, and drowning. Cats, too, are good at alerting their owners to danger. Animals save human lives just the same as humans do. They also serve the police and fire department and have been extremely helpful to them. To sum all that up, animals save lives and serve our protection forces well. They have done no less than humans have. And yet we still regard them as being worth less than us. And don't tell me that animals have killed humans, too. That may be true, but humans do that too. A lot more than animals do, in fact. But homicide is unrelated to the topic, so I digress. Just wanted to point that out.	PRO	338
338	S10c0bcf4-A41c6ad12	Education should be funded by vouchers granted to individual families, not public schools.	"The point of providing a ""voucher"" instead of cash is that the voucher can only be spent in a certain way. Education vouchers could only be spent on education. If there are to be no standards on what qualifies as education, as you're suggesting, then there is absolutely no point in providing vouchers -- cash could be used instead. If there are some kind of standards to be applied to who can receive the vouchers, then this means the government will be setting the standards, thus regulating and controlling schools and turning all private schools into public schools -- just as has happened with colleges. The above is irrefutable. Your ""free market"" argument is laughable. The free market is what I'm arguing for -- you're arguing for wealth redistribution. Someone who has ten children would receive ten vouchers' worth of subsidies, while someone who has one child would only receive one voucher's worth of subsidies. If the vouchers can be spent on anything, then this is just a crude wealth redistribution plan -- and you're saying, yes, despite the fact that it makes absolutely no sense to provide vouchers that can be spent on anything (defeating the entire purpose of a voucher vs. cash), the vouchers in your system would be able to be spent on ANYTHING. It's doubly ridiculous to suggest that parents wouldn't make poor choices, such as sending their children to the Video Arcade Academy. Do parents not make poor choices now with their own money? Of course they do! Although a true free market would provide better quality education and more choices, there would still be parents who made poor choices. WHAT ABOUT HOMESCHOOLING? Would homeschoolers not be eligible for the vouchers? Would their taxes pay for them either way? If they would be eligible for the vouchers, to be paid to themselves, then isn't this obviously open to massive fraud and abuse? Unscrupulous parents could have ten or twelve children and collect $8,000 to $10,000 per year, PER CHILD, for ""educating"" them, whether they actually educated them or not! And if homeschoolers are not able to receive the vouchers, then is this not an outright assault on the freedom to homeschool? You are arguing for tyranny and cloaking your words in the parlance of freedom. It is truly Orwellian. It is downright blasphemous to use the ""invisible hand"" metaphor when you're talking about a big-government, wealth-redistribution program. Do you honestly believe your own rhetoric? Vouchers are a neoconservative transfer-payment apparatus. That conservatives and libertarians have fallen for this charade is one thing, but to disingeuously use ""free market"" rhetoric in order to justify the case for the socialization of education is downright insulting to people's intelligence. Your understanding of the Constitution and Original Intent is horrid. If the First Amendment's ""separation of church and state"" applied to the states, then why did official state churches in Massachusetts and Connecticut endure until 1833, and why were they abolished through state legislative process, not the federal government's enforcement of the First Amendment? You have a very liberal, big-government understanding of the Constitution. The Constitution clearly says ""CONGRESS SHALL MAKE NO LAW..."" That's what it says, and it doesn't matter what FDR's judges have said since. Of course, the above has nothing to do with the debate at hand, but it merely shows your lack of constitutional logic, and the Rooseveltian liberalism that informs your supposedly ""libertarian"" stand for wealth redistribution and state-sponsored education camps. A voucher system would take the partially monopolized education system and make the monopoly complete. There are only two colleges that refuse federal money. There are many more private schools at the K-12 level. If your system were adopted, then truly private schools would become as rare as truly private colleges, thus effectively abolishing the private alternative to public education. AND AGAIN, WHAT ABOUT HOMESCHOOLING? Every worthwhile argument you've made for a voucher system can also be made for a truly free market in education. You've done nothing to show why vouchers are better than a true free market. I have shown why a true free market is better than vouchers -- which are NOT a ""free market"" (PLEASE!). I will go further to say even the status quo is better, because at least now, parents are able to send their children to truly private schools. Under your system, that would cease to be the case."	CON	339
339	Sc7831446-Aa1fba13d	university education should be free	Individuals have a right to the experience of higher education	PRO	340
340	Sb1cf8ab-Aedbf0f4b	Direct popular vote should replace the electoral college in U.S. presidential elections.	"I'll first go over my opponents case then back over my own. Refutation for Contention 1: When looking at the history of our great nation, it is easy to see that the Founding Fathers played a very significant role in shaping the outcome of our nation. However, they were human. An integral characteristic of humanity is to make mistakes. We cannot pretend that our Founding Fathers were omnipotent, all knowing gods who could never make a mistake. That would be illogical. Rather, let's take each of their ideas and decide upon them individually. They came up with the Electoral College as a way to vote on presidential elections. However, back in the 1700s, they were unable to envision the future of our democracy. They could not have seen the distortion created by the electoral college. Yes, maybe the Electoral College was a good way to go in the 1700s, but times have changed. And it's the time the United States adopted a policy where every vote counts equally: the direct popular vote. Refutation for Contention 2: My opponent seems to believe that with a direct popular vote, small states will disappear from the map. This simply isn't the case. In an era of mass media, very few citizens actually get to meet a candidate, much less talk with them. Small states will still be vitally important to each and every election as there are millions of undecided voters within each state. Small states will still have a voice, yet with the direct popular vote, that voice will become more porportionate. Back to my own case: Contention One: The goal here is to get every state to have a porportionate voice, something not achieved by the Electoral College. A porportionate voice is exactly what the Direct Popular Vote would give us. Contention 2: In the Bush v. Gore election of 2000, the votes in Florida were still up in the air. The decision of the presidency came down to just a few people. Imagine had these few decided to go against popular opinion. They would have changed the course of this nation. Though yes, it is a rare occurence, we still should not chance the fate of our nation with just a few people. Let's not take the risk. Vote for the Direct Popular Vote. Contention 3: My opponent fails to realize that the Electoral College also has integral flaws. Look to my Duke Chronicle evidence, it shows that states like Indiana are still left out of the races. Instead of arbitrarily mandating which small states should recieve a disporportionate amount of power, we should allow candidates to freely choose where to go and give all states a porportionate voice. I'll simply list my questions, my opponent must answer each question. 1) Were the Founding Fathers always right? 2) Could the Founding Fathers have predicted the distortion in our democracy today? 3) You said ""Any form of democracy is not desirable because it assists in the gradual destruction of a republican government..."". So please explain why our citizens vote at all if democratic voting is inherently detrimental. 4) Please cite an instance in the U.S. that democracy has turned ""into a government rule of the few that denies individual liberties""? 5) Was the Bill of Rights not meant to protect individual liberties? 6) Can we not have democracy and liberties? 7) Why do smaller states have to be represented disporportionately? 8) Wouldn't small states shall have their voice, their vote, during elections? 9) Shouldn't the most citizens be represented? a.k.a the larger states? 10) In an era of media, it is necessary for all citizens to get up close and personal to each and every single candidate? 11) Is the Electoral College not, in essence, a direct popular vote by state? 12) Why should a vote in Wyoming be worth 4 times as much as a vote in California? 13) What is the ideal vote value? 14) As you well know I'm sure, in the Bush/Gore election, the crucial votes in Florida came down to a few electors. Would we even want to chance the outcome of an entire presidential election by giving all the power to just a few people? 15) Should voting power be porpotional to population? I urge an affirmative vote."	PRO	341
341	S5346a370-A99a9f00f	Free Education Lowering Poor Rates	"I believe that free education can lower poor rates through minor discrimination against the poor. Education or the lack of education is the roots of poverty, so making it available for everyone means that we have already eliminated most of the problem. The other half of the problem lies in the majority of poor people who, given free education, don't take advantage of it and live off of government money. These ""lazy"" poor people can be solved by a slight form of class discrimination that will be healthy for our economy. Similar to the Poor Laws in England 1839, we will make being poor undesirable by not funding them. This will force them to accept the education or live on the streets. By doing this, we will become more efficient and will improve our overall living conditions and nation."	PRO	342
342	Sc9466f76-A827f10b5	Single Sex Education is Better than Co-Education	I would like to thank my opponent for accepting this debate and posting their construct so punctually. Here are my expansions: Expansions Students at single-sex schools perform better than those at co-ed schools. The Florida Comprehensive Assessment Test tracked the performance of students in co-ed and single-sex classes. Before I read the results it should be noted that these students were learning the same curriculum. Girls in co-ed classes were 59% proficient, while girls in single-sex classes were 75% proficient. Boys in co-ed classes were 37% proficient while boys in single-sex classes were 86% proficient. Again, the co-ed and single-sex classes had the same demographics, the same class size, and the same curriculum. Males and females have different learning styles which must be treated differently. Here I quote Leonard Sax, an advocate of single-sex education who is a an American psychologist and family physician, famous for three books he wrote on gender issues. He speaks of the differences of learning styles between the two genders. “If you don’t understand those differences and you teach boys and girls as if they were the same, the end result is a kindergarten classroom where the boys tell you drawing is for girls and a middle school classroom where girls tell you computers are for boys.” Kids learn differently depending on whether they are male or female. You can see it for yourself. Boys and girls are different. From an early age until high school and beyond they act differently, so treating their education separately is more effective than not. Single-sex education promotes gender equality. As we all know, gender stereotypes are a big issue in the world today. Many people believe that women are not suited for professions in sports, IT, contractors, electricians, soldiers, and more. Having an all girl school can help promote ideas of gender equality. Girls in single-sex schools are less likely to see subjects like computer, or physics as “boy subjects” if there aren’t boys in the immediate environment to exaggerate these gender differences. Students have a life outside of class. Many students take extra-cirricular activities, summer camp, church, even students that have siblings of opposite genders get to spend time with children of the opposite gender. They are not shut off completely from kids from the opposite gender. Even kids with siblings spend time with the other gender. Please post your expansions and refute my points! I look forward to this debate.	PRO	343
343	S1db3eaf8-A973671d4	university education should be free	The cost to the state is far too great to sustain universal free university education	CON	344
344	S1db3eaf8-A1be053d4	university education should be free	Maintaining a system of free university education leads to an inefficient allocation of state resources.	CON	345
345	S1db3eaf8-Aa6c0d0cd	university education should be free	Free university education unjustly benefits one subset of society at the expense of everyone	CON	346
346	S1ec571b6-A215fdcab	Should We Keep The Electoral College	MY OPPONENT DROPS MY COUNTERPLAN As my opponent has dropped my counterplan, he concedes it is the correct course of action, and I win the debate. MY OPPONENT HAS DROPPED THE CRITICISM OF DIRECT POPULAR VOTING. As my opponent has dropped this, he has conceded that the issues with a direct popular vote is correct. He only response to voter recounts, and thus drops the argument that we don’t want a system with majority rule. Third Parties: I am not saying that third parties are nonexistent in the current system, but that their efficacy is significantly blunted if we have an EC system. The reason for this is that when three or four candidates emerge, it makes it hard to win an outright majority in the electoral college. There have been prominent third party runs--Ross Perot and Ralph Nader are obvious examples--but the EC has prevented any significant third party threat from emerging since 2004, and the EC has effectively reduced our political system to two parties. The example of Bernie Sanders actually supports my position; it does not refute it. Sanders was able to run as an Independent and be successful in a popular voting scenario (he ran for Senate, and that is decided by a popular vote). Now, he is running as a Democrat because that is the only way to be a viable candidate. Of course, Biden and Hillary are the only two serious candidates either running or contemplating a run, suggesting that the parties usually coalesce around a moderate establishment candidate (which is arguably a good thing). My opponent drops the majority of my argument here, which is that even under my opponent’s system people who would become president would rarely win through a majority, but instead a plurality, which reduces the ability of the populace to rally behind the future president. Swing States, Small States: I never said that swing states were unimportant--of course swing states are the most important! The fact is, small swing states--Iowa, New Hampshire, New Mexico, Colorado, and Nevada can sway election results. As I noted, if person were to vote in a small state, their vote has more weight than a ballot casted in California, meaning the electoral college system works. - I never said Virginia was a small state. Colorado is the 22nd largest state, making it about middle of the pack [http://www.enchantedlearning.com...]. New Mexico only has 5 electoral votes, New Hampshire has 4, Nevada has 6, Iowa has 6, Colorado has 8--which is small. My opponent criticizes my arguments on extremely weak ground, ignoring the actual statistical data on the subject--and the statistics show that small states are worth more and weighted heavily. The EC is working. Winner Takes All is Unfair: I actually refuted this. My counterplan eliminates this concern--as well as the concern of an undemocratic outcome, and it also preserves Federalism. My opponent’s plan does nothing to preserve Federalism, so my plan should be preferred. Not only that, but this argument is silly. The argument--that if Texas votes republican by 1 vote, so all the democratic votes are wasted--is insane. This happens NO MATTER WHAT in an election. Gore barely won the election in 2000 using the popular vote, meaning that all of Bush’s votes would have been a waste under a direct popular vote system. So, in effect, if we take my opponent’s argument as truth, all elections are unfair by the same mechanism. Voter Recounts. Literally my opponent’s argument against this was that Al Gore would have been a better President. This is not true, because Gore supported military interventionism as well. Gore, in a 2002 speech, argued that “Iraq does pose a serious threat to the stability of the Persian Gulf and we should organize an international coalition to eliminate his access to weapons of mass destruction.” He simultaneously supported the war in Afghanistan, saying that “[we should stay]the course in our war against Osama Bin Laden and his terrorist network.” [http://www.gwu.edu...] It should be noted than an analysis of Gore’s and Bush’s fiscal plans found that Bush’s plans were superior to Gore’s [http://www.ipi.org...]. It should also be noted that Bush’s economic record wasn’t that bad, either. Productivity grew faster under Bush than Clinton and even Reagan, wages increased, and income inequality grew at a slower rate than under Clinton [http://money.usnews.com...]. Bush also saved 100 million lives through AIDS funding and research [http://www.cnn.com...]. Bush was not the best president ever, nor was he the worst. But tell one hundred million Africans that he should have lost the 2000 election, and you would get berated out of that room.	PRO	347
347	Sac752d39-A4ff31bd7	Parents/guardians should be in control of their child(ren)'s education, not the state.	"I. Pro counters that persecution is relevant, but his reasoning, that the state ""abuses"" its power, is questionable. The family broke the law; they were punished. That is not an example of ""abuse"". Disdain for a law does not equal exemption. Pro does not mention with regards to the PISA the math that I used to show that public schooling has a higher potential than home schooling, so that point stands. The PISA is discussed more in this point in III.C. II. The over 60% religion statistic is in fact important. The fact that it is considered an important factor, even if not the most important, clearly shows that religion holds a strong influence over these decisions. A plethora of home schooling sites are religious, and the HSLDA itself identifies as Christian (found in the FAQ of 1) The fact that over 60% say that religion is at least important also definitively proves that over 60% over home schooling parents are in fact religious. See III.B. for more on this. Also, the HSLDA poll cited by Pro (3, in his list of sources) serves to contradict Pro's argument, as an even higher amount of people on that poll cite religion as a primary reason for home schooling. III. With regards to the make-up of the top countries, constitutional monarchies are effectively democratic republics, as the people ultimately do hold a lot of power. Using a source from the CIA to define democracy is a bit America-centric; the Merriam-Webster definition defines democracy as ""government by the people; especially: rule of the majority"" (2). Also, many parts of China are included, as they are technically different nations; however, they are controlled by the same government, and thus should not be considered separate entities in terms of forms of government. Singapore is a parliamentary republic, a form of democracy. Taiwan is a republic. South Korea is a democratic republic, a form of democracy. Japan is a constitutional monarchy; that""s a form of democracy. Liechtenstein has a constitutional monarchy with elements of direct democracy, a form of democracy. Switzerland has direct and representative democracy. Netherlands? Form of democracy. Estonia? Form of democracy. If we""re to say that only direct democracy counts as democracy, then even the United States is not a democracy. Pro attempts to misconstrue my claim that the state is often ""fairer in education because more people have a say"". What it means is that multiple people have the opportunity to vote on education through representatives or referendums, whereas in home schooling a child is at the mercy of parents; therefore, my original rebuttal stands. I also challenge the notion that parents cannot count as a single entity because they can""t educate a state""s worth of children. That is irrelevant to the fact that a parent with autonomous control in fact has a much more rigid control over a child than a state that doesn""t have the resources to indoctrinate so heavily; the parent relatively speaking can do more harm with the resources to his/her child than the state can to a state full of children. A. I concede that my interpretation of the statistics was an exaggeration; however, Pro""s interpretation is as well. He states that ""Yes, only 1% of students out of 1000 colleges polled were home schooled"" the statistic is probably closer to 1 out of 5 home school graduates not continuing their education at college, because at the time this 1% home schooled graduates were being home schooled, there were half (1.5%) as many home schooled students as there currently are (3%)."" Given the statistics cited in that paragraph, the 1 out of 5 statistic has no evidence supporting it at all. 1 out of 1.5 as a proper fraction is 2/3, which is approximately average, according to the NCES (3, can be found under the heading ""Enrollment""). The NCES also states that the number of public high school dropouts is decreasing dramatically. B. Pro attempts again to misconstrue my arguments, linking my argument against abuse to my argument against indoctrination. They are two separate points. He even acknowledges this by rebutting the former separately at the end of this point, despite linking them together twice. I""ll start off rebutting the indoctrination with a quick reference (4). The evidence presented in that study, coupled with the 60% statistic earlier, are strong indicators that parents utilize home schooling to impose their religious views on the children. Pro also shows a lack of understanding of the law. The ""separation of church and state"" means only that ""Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the government for a redress of grievances."" (5) Forbidding home schooling would not prohibit the child from exercising his beliefs; contrary to popular belief, people can pray in schools, it just cannot be teacher/administrator-sanctioned (6). The parents are not prohibited either, as they can exercise it themselves at any time; it only limits the contact time they have with the children, and there is no constitutional right to control another person""s religion, anyway. In terms of abuse, Pro actually rebuts his own ideas. Giving the state the responsibility to discover and stop child abuse and neglect in effect gives the state control over education, since they ultimately define what that entails; home schooling would thus become ""state-run education that occurs at home"", defeating the whole purpose. C. Pro attempts to misconstrue my point again. He makes no mention of the theoretical math done in which home schooled children here are compared to publicly schooled children abroad, so it should be considered resolved that public schooling in fact has a higher potential for educating students than home schooling. See III.A. for my response to the ""botched statistics"". D. Pro does not rebut skimming with any sources; therefore, the point that private schooling and school choice create a derogatory skimming effect is affirmed. IV. It is not exactly proper form to introduce a new argument late in the debate, but I""ll respond to it regardless. There is no source cited in this paragraph, and Pro has the burden of proof to show that variety improves education. He has not provided proof; therefore, this argument should not be taken into consideration. Pro misconstrued my arguments on several occasions, such as linking my abuse argument to my indoctrination argument, and also provided no rebuttal for several points. Ultimately, Pro still has not provided enough proof to counter my arguments against parents being in charge of education. I have shown that school choice is not as beneficial compared to public school as Pro believes. Meanwhile, my points about skimming, indoctrination, and abuse all stand, and Pro has not definitively demonstrated why parents and guardians should be in charge of education, not the state. Sources: 1.http://www.hslda.org... 2. http://www.merriam-webster.com... 3. http://nces.ed.gov... 4. http://www.iejee.com... 5. http://www.law.cornell.edu... 6. https://www.au.org..."	CON	348
348	Se45fb8ba-A38493f6	Is Indian Education System Is Justified	IN this current scenario in this cut throat competition ,Is indian education system is justified	CON	349
349	Saf13dc4a-Aa7f765a2	That a human life is intrinsically worth more than the life of an animal	"Thanks to Pro for accepting the debate, and for providing his opening arguments. Statistically speaking, it might be reasonable to expect that the human child *could* have lived longer than Harambe. But I have to ask ""so what?"" Is the length of a life an indication of its worth, as Pro seems to be implying? John Keats, an extraordinary man of letters, theorist, and writer of sublime poetry died at age 25 [1]. Gerhard Sommer, a Nazi war criminal who murdered 560 innocent people in a single day, including 119 children, is still alive at age 95 [2]. Which life was worth more? Galapogas tortoises and koi fish live for around 200 years [3] - does that make them more valuable than Americans? If the argument is solely that due to living longer than a gorilla (or most other mammals), a human could ""accomplish a lot of stuff"", it must be pointed out that this could include growing up to be the next Genghis Khan, Adolf Hitler or Jeffrey Dahmer. There is no reason to believe that any given child will grow up to be any particular mix of good or evil, thus this doesn't seem to be a valid argument. I don't accept the argument that the ability to breed makes a life more valuable. Is a sterile man's life worth less than the life of one who is not? And in any case, the only reason Harambe hadn't bred is that he hadn't yet reached sexual maturity, not, as Pro claims, he was past it [4]. To quote Pro: ""Humans accomplish more than animals and have the brains needed to keep the world stable. If you say the lives of animals are equal to humans, then why can't any wild animal that are mostly left alone by humans perform anything to save the world? Wild animals have their own space and often, humans do not bother them but have they done anything to benefit the world?"" The world was stable for billions of years before humans got here. Before humans arrived, the world didn't *need* saving. The planet was doing fine, animal species were coming and going in accordance with natural events. It is only the arrival of humans (which the movie ""The Matrix"" refers to as ""a virus"") that the Earth has been in danger. It is humans, not gorillas, nor any of the other millions of species, that threaten the very existence of the planet and all life on it. Humans aren't saving the world - they're destroying it. You say that ""animals have their own space"", yet in 2005 it was reported that the world's forests were being destroyed at the rate of 13.5 million hectares per year *by humans*, resulting in 2,000 species of mammals alone being threatened with extinction [5]. Thanks directly to our actions their ""space"" is diminishing at an appalling rate. If I wanted to be callous, based on the above I could respond to your question ""How will it benefit the world if the three-year old child was left to die at the hands of Harambe?"" with the simple answer that one less human equals one less force for destruction, based on the evidence. But instead, I'll just say that the death of Harambe was tragic. The death of the child would have been tragic. But while we can pretty much guarantee that left to his own devices, Harambe would have done nothing to harm the world, we can't say that with as much certainty for the human child. [1] http://www.biography.com... [2] https://sussle.org... [3] http://10mosttoday.com... [4] http://www.sciencealert.com... [5] http://www.wwf.org.au..."	CON	350
350	S95535bbc-Af81f6444	The Electoral College is a logical system	It is only logical if you have contempt for the democratic process and ts asic premise one man one vote, Oh excuse me one person on vote, What defined a man or a person has changed in the days when the electoral college, Only white christian men with property were considered people, And slavery was legal women were considered chattel, What sort of sick freak endorses such a perverse world view, A olot of people think Hitler made a lot of sense, Are you one of those jew hating monsters, I don't care what reactionaries consider logical, Democracy is basically one person one vote, Constituional guaratess to protect rights of minorities are fine. . But rich people don't have thee ordained rigt to ruel thats the divine right of kings, Not democracy, So f you! Those that make peeaceful revolution impossible make violent revolution inevitable.	CON	351
351	Sc7831446-A973671d4	university education should be free	The cost to the state is far too great to sustain universal free university education	CON	352
352	Sc7831446-A1be053d4	university education should be free	Maintaining a system of free university education leads to an inefficient allocation of state resources.	CON	353
353	Sc7831446-Aa6c0d0cd	university education should be free	Free university education unjustly benefits one subset of society at the expense of everyone	CON	354
354	S32cc52fb-A61bf10e6	Health care/education is NOT a right	"I thank con for accepting this debate! Lets look at the ""rights"" con listed. A ""right"" to a trial by jury or a ""right"" to an attorney. This falls flat when we understand that a right can only be a ""right"" if it does not violate the ""right"" of another human. The use of force is carried out to make people sit as a jury, who would otherwise spend their time doing what ever else they wish to do. It is irrelevant if a group of people say ""this is now a right!!"". If it violates the right of another human, it cannot be a ""right"". The ""right"" to an attorney falls flat as well. Public attorneys are paid with taxes. By definition, public attorneys are paid with stolen money as theft is when something (money) is taken from someone without their consent. Therefore, a ""right"" is not a ""right"" simply because a police officer or judge says ""you have a right to an attorney"". It violates the ""rights"" of other people. Con goes on to say the right to bear arms does not apply to felons. Well in many states this so called ""right"" written by man fails people on a daily basis. In New York state, a judge can be as arbitrary (which is why man cannot create a right) as he/she wants. If a person has too many parking tickets, the judge can declare the person cannot have a handgun. This is besides the fact that a handgun is a firearm, yet in New York, one must apply for a permit. See a small group of people who claim the ""right"" to rule over 300,000,000 other people cannot create ""rights"" simply because they arbitrarily choose when to uphold or toss out those ""rights"". The ""right"" to marry for example was tossed out for gays for a long time. Now the small group of people who rule say, ""ok we guess you can have these rights too"". Rights are not given to people by courts, police, politicians etc. This notion that people have a right to education implies that someone is forced to educate. Otherwise they are violating the ""right"" of the person wanting to be educated. Rights are not given. They just are. Man can recognize these ""rights"" or not. That is irrelevant. I do not argue that people should have a good education. I do not argue that people should have good health care. However, to say these are ""rights"" would imply someone must give the education or health care, which is an irrational thought to have. People have the right to educate themselves. People have the right to provide their own health care, but that is not what this debate is about. It is about people saying other people should be forced to pay or actually do the educating because a small group of rulers declare its their ""right"""	PRO	355
355	Sb295af9a-A4f3a176f	The Electoral College Should Be Abandoned	"Most people who favor abolishing the Electoral College (EC) believe that a Nationwide Popular Vote (NPV) for the presidency is ""more fair"" because it better reflects the will of the people as to who should be president. This is an age old issue which goes back to the Founding Fathers. In the early days of the United States there was a debate among the States as to ""how much representation"" each State should get in the federal government. States that were more heavily populated felt they should get more votes because they represent more people. States that were less populated disagreed as they did not want to have to bend to the will of the larger States around every corner. The structure of the EC provides the best compromise to this issue when determining who should be president. The number of electors for each State is determined by the number of members it has in the House plus the number of members it has in the Senate (which is always two regardless of the State's population). Therefore the Constitution was drafted to grant more representation to larger States while, at the same time, preventing tyranny of the majority. Points of Interest: 1. A nationwide popular vote assumes that all States are equal in population. All States are not equal in population. Some States are more heavily populated than other States. If we were to go to a nationwide popular vote then there are enough people in the States of California, Illinois, New York, and Florida to decide every election. Without the EC, what voice would people in Wyoming get in who should be president? The EC forces each presidential candidate to win over people in ALL States. If we were to have a nationwide popular vote, people living in smaller States would be ignored which could lead to disruption of our union. Furthermore, abolishing the EC involves an amendment to the U.S. Constitution which requires ï¿½ of the States to agree. How absurd would representatives from Wyoming and Nebraska sound if they went to their people and told them, ""We're giving up our say in presidential elections?"" While States like California and Florida may favor abolishing the EC, it's unfair (and unrealistic) to expect smaller States to give up their advantage. If smaller States didn't want to do this 233 years ago, I don't think they will want to it today. 2. Each individual vote in smaller States carry more weight than they would in a direct election. Think about it. In smaller States each vote is more important because there are fewer people in those States. In order for a candidate to win the presidency he/she has to win a majority of the EC votes which translates to a majority of States. Therefore, in order for a candidate to become president he/she has no choice to but to address the concerns of people in smaller States because he/she can't become president without the support of those States. 3. The EC helps ensure that voices of minorities are heard in the election. Large States, like California for example, are referred to as ""Majority-Minority"" States. This means that the majority of the population in California is comprised of ethnic groups which only represent a minority of people nationwide. i.e. Hispanics, African Americans, Asians etc. Reference: http://www.census.gov... If we were to have a nationwide popular vote then the interests of minority groups would be ignored as they don't represent a majority. However, given that California has 55 electoral votes it's an important state. Consequently, if a candidate wants to win CA, then the voices of minorities need to be addressed. Minorities would completely lose this advantage in a nationwide popular vote. On the surface, the Electoral College may seem like it's taking away the people's right to choose the president, but it's really not. In most cases the candidate who wins the popular vote wins the election. Opponents of the EC usually site the handful of instances when the popular vote lost the election to the EC vote. These are rare occurrences, and over the course of history they only prove our commitment to representing all people and not just the majority. I like to think of the EC as being like Handicapped Bowling. The player who is underdog in a bowling match is given some ""extra credit"" at the beginning of the game in order to help even the playing field. However, in most cases, the person who is the better bowler still wins the game. On occasions when the underdog wins the bowling match as a result of his ""extra credit,"" this is a legitimate win because the opportunity was spread evenly among the players from the beginning. Any flukes that have occurred with the popular vote losing previous elections are the exception and not the norm. So why give up the protections the EC provides just so we can get a system we think is ""more fair?"" The safeguards provided by the EC far outweigh any of its' perceived disadvantages. The EC represents the will of the people while at the same time preventing tyranny of the majority. And that, my friends, is in the best interest of all."	CON	356
356	Saf208634-A89e48ef1	This house would abolish the Electoral College	General rebuttal: There is a better way to attain Pro’s goals than abolishing the EC Pro has an eye toward the popular vote and sees the EC as an impediment. Pro “would amend the United States Constitution to abolish the Electoral College” (resolution) and replace it with a direct election. Supposing for the moment that I shared Pro’s vision of having the popular vote determine the outcome of presidential elections, abolishing the EC isn’t how I would go about attaining that goal because there is a better way. Article 2 of the constitution provides that “Each State shall appoint, in such Manner as the Legislature thereof may direct, a Number of Electors […]”. [4] “The State legislatures also decide how to allocate the electoral votes within their States. While it is common practice today for States to award all of their electoral votes to one candidate on a winner-take-all basis, they are not required to do so. In Nebraska and Maine, the electoral votes are not awarded entirely on a winner-take-all basis. In those States, the winner of the statewide popular vote is automatically awarded two electoral votes. The remaining electoral votes are earned by winning the popular vote in each of the States’ congressional districts. It is therefore possible for more than one candidate to win votes in the Electoral College in Nebraska and Maine.” [5; pg 6] So, theoretically, a state legislature could instruct all of its electors to cast their votes in favor of the presidential candidate who won the national popular vote. If a sufficient number of state legislatures decided to do that then the outcome of presidential elections would be determined by the popular vote. (Call this “my way” for simplicity’s sake; It’s not really my idea) This would effectively give Pro everything he wants without abolishing the EC and the concomitant burden of amending the constitution. My way is a lot easier than abolishing the EC. My way merely requires a sufficient number of state legislatures to pass bills instructing their electors to cast their votes in favor of the presidential candidate who won the national popular vote. The number of state legislatures required is sufficient when the combined total of their allotted electors amounts to a simple majority within the EC; Currently 270 electors (“270 to win”). As I explained in the prior round, Pro’s way requires “abolishing the EC” which “requires a constitutional amendment” and, beyond that, “such an undertaking requires the consent of two thirds of both houses of Congress or a convention upon the application of the legislatures of two thirds of the states. After that, such an amendment isn’t effective until it’s ratified by the legislatures of three fourths of the states or by conventions in three fourths thereof.” That’s substantially more difficult. Clearly, my way is easier. If that doesn’t convince you that my way’s better then what should is the fact that my way is already being implemented by legislatures across this country. The measure is known as the National Popular Vote Interstate Compact (NPVIC), [6] and it “has been enacted by 11 jurisdictions possessing 165 electoral votes - 61% of the 270 electoral votes needed to activate it.” [7] My way is already 61% done. Pro would have us to start all over again and abolish the EC using the burdensome amendment process. No. Sources - 2 - https://goo.gl... 4 - https://goo.gl... 5 - http://goo.gl... 6 - https://goo.gl... 7 - http://goo.gl... 8 - https://goo.gl...	CON	357
357	Saf208634-A595db494	This house would abolish the Electoral College	Meh. The notion that the argument could be a kritik didn’t occur to me when I argued it, and I don’t see that it is one. Although Pro’s assertion that my argument was a kritik wasn’t supported by Pro within the debate, upon inquiry Pro did say in the comments that “[the argument] is a kritik as it attempts to challenge the assumption of the resolution (i.e. abolishing via constitutional amendment as opposed to NPVIC rather than the ultimate goal which is an abolition of the electoral college.” After reading things like - https://debate.uvm.edu... - and listening to this guy - - I still don’t see that my argument was a kritik. Though, there doesn’t appear to be any definitive test for determining whether or not an argument is a kritik. In any case, perhaps if the argument was framed a bit differently it would be less likely to be viewed as a kritik. So, I will do that now. The resolution is “This house would amend the United States Constitution to abolish the Electoral College.” This is an all-or-nothing resolution; It leaves no room for reasonable alternatives to abolition such as the NPVIC which would address some or all of the concerns of people such as Pro while maintaining the federal nature of the presidential election and without having to go through the burdensome amendment process. This argument was not put forth in opening arguments because Pro desired to use the popular vote, and citing the NPVIC as an alternative would create the appearance of rebuttal. I sought to avoid that because round 2 was for opening arguments only. Whether the argument is framed as “reasonable alternatives” or “Hey, we should do it this way” shouldn’t matter that much; It’s essentially the same argument – Acknowledging that the current state of affairs is somewhat problematic but seeking to avoid the burden of the amendment process while preserving the value of the EC. Pro’s response to the argument is to bring up the issue of the constitutionality of the NPVIC, the issue of trusting the legislatures to honor the NPVIC, and to assert that “the NPVIC would be far more chaotic than an amendment. It seems that an amendment to the constitution would be far more effective and far less disruptive than an interstate compact.” My response to these arguments is this: 1. The constitutionality of legislative acts is not an issue unique to the NPVIC; Bills are always subject to judicial review. The NPVIC may or may not be constitutional, but this issue has not been ruled upon by the courts. There is disagreement among the experts as to whether or not the NPVIC is constitutional - http://www.fairvote.org... - The NPVIC may or may not require congressional consent under the compact clause. However, even if it does, then what’s required is a majority vote in congress. This is still substantially less burdensome than the amendment process, which requires a two thirds majority in congress and ratification in three fourths of the states. As to the issue of violating the electors clause, that argument is weak on its face. The fact that electors being appointed on the basis of votes casts outside a state has never been done before doesn’t matter from a constitutional standpoint. 2. History indicates that trust isn’t a real issue here. Red and blue legislatives have consistently honored the popular vote of their respective states in the past, assigning all of their electoral votes to the winner in their state, even if the winner wasn’t of the same political party as the party in control of the state legislature. 3. Pro’s allegation of the NPVIC being ineffectual and chaotic doesn’t make sense to me. It strikes me as entirely unsupported.	CON	358
358	S10c0bcf4-A71b4b61f	Education should be funded by vouchers granted to individual families, not public schools.	"Thank you for challenging me to this debate, Mr. Logos. I can only assume you did so upon viewing my profile and seeing I was AGAINST vouchers. You probably also noticed I am a libertarian, so the perspective I'm arguing from should not be surprising to you. You say: ""Education should be funded by vouchers granted to individual families, not public schools."" I agree that public schools are dreadful and should be abolished. My argument is that vouchers effectively turn all private schools that accept them into public schools. Instead of arguing for the abolition of public schools, you are thus actually arguing for the abolition of private ones! By what standards would the government decide a school was eligible to receive a student's vouchers? There would have to be some standard, right? I mean, I couldn't open a school at the video arcade and accept vouchers as ""tuition,"" could I? Whatever the standards, since virtually all ""private"" schools would do whatever necessary to accommodate (and get that government money), then clearly, the government would be in control of these schools -- just like they're in control of the public schools now. The Supreme Court ruled in 1984 (Grove City College v. Bell) that any college or university with even one student receiving government money is thereby subject to government regulation. Do you trust the government to not exercise this power when it comes to K-12? Later, the Supreme Court ruled that vouchers for religious schools did not infringe upon the First Amendment's supposed guarantee of ""separation of church and state."" That was the correct decision in my opinion. But do you want the government subsidizing religious schools through its vouchers? Think about the implications of this: We could have Wahabiist madrassas like they have in Saudi Arabia, and taxpayers would be footing the bill for them. Actually, this brings up another point: Although the First Amendment merely says ""Congress shall pass no law respecting an establishment of religion,"" many state constitutions have specific laws outlawing taxpayer funding of religious schools. How do you plan to get around this hurdle? If religious schools were excluded, then obviously, there would still be people who footed the bill for the voucher system (through involuntary taxation), and yet had to pay out-of-pocket to send their children to their school of choice. Finally, it seems you are arguing for a voucher program implemented by the federal government. Thus, I have to ask you: Where does the Constitution grant the government this authority?"	CON	359
359	Saf208634-A8760ea4b	This house would abolish the Electoral College	Re: Cost In my opinion, this is by far con's best argument. Although amending the Constitution is indeed a timely procedure, I would argue that anything that will substantially improve U.S. democracy and give the people a greater say in the government is worth the time and cost. In 2013, a Gallup poll reported that over 60% of Americans favor abolishing the EC (1). What would it take to get Congress to pass an amendment to abolish the EC? Perhaps a loss in the Presidential election if their candidate got more votes, but lost in the EC. The last time this happened was in 2000 and, as I cited in the first round, this has happened a total of 4 times. Another possible way this could happen is if we see a 269-269 tie. In almost every election, there was a very real possibility of a 269-269 tie. In the current 2016 election, there are at least three ways in which the EC could end up as a tie (2). Because of the way the EC is set up, the Democrats have a signifigant advantage in the EC (3). If the Republicans suffer a loss in the EC, as the Democrats did in 2000, we could very easily see a bipartisan call to repeal the EC. Re: Federalism Con argues that the EC maintains Federalism. The problem with this argument is a fundamental misunderstanding of Federalism. The EC does not maintain or enhance the power or soverinty of states. Federalism is based on representation in Congress, not on the EC. Federalism can be maintained with or without the EC. Con also argues that abolishing the EC would be detrimental to the interest of small states. Ironically, bigger states already have a slight advantage in the EC as opposed to small states because candidates focus on the states that give the biggest payoff. Consequently, they ignore states such as Alaska and Wyoming that have such small popuations (4). But the bigger issue is with the one-person-one-vote principle. Although the EC may be more or less favorable to big states, a vote in smaller states is worth far more (see my arguments in round 2). Is it really fair that a vote in a small state is worth far more than one with a bigger population? Re: Risks In my opinion, this is con's weakest argument. Cons argument is essentially an argumentum ad antiquitatem - appeal to tradition (5). Although the EC has been intact since the Constitution was ratified, it is time to move on from an archaic system. In the original Constitution, Senators were elected by the state legislator, not by a direct election. This changed with the ratification of the XVII amendment in 1913 (6). The old system no longer worked and increased corruption and deadlocked Congress. Likewise, the EC is outdated and should be changed. Thank you con for a good debate. I look forward to your reply! Sources 1. http://bit.ly...; 2. http://bit.ly...; 3. http://wapo.st...; 4. http://bit.ly...; 5. http://bit.ly...; 6. http://bit.ly...	PRO	360
360	S64c53e3d-A6d18adb3	Higher Education ought to be private and indiviuals ought to pay for it themselves.	"1)Free education is not the solution to more experts. This much is evident. In fact, since free education makes it difficult for one to have a ‘second chance' it could cause just as much as a problem. Also not the argument of education as an investment and capitalism is a self-regulatory market, so even if there is a shortage of experts, increasing the salary of these experts or finding alternative ways to find experts will work itself out better than a free education. 2) The market is self-regulatory. It follows basic supply and demand. If one wants a higher paying job, he or she can invest in an education. While some forms of labor are ""overpriced"" and some forms of labor are ""underpriced"" people will switch fields or decide that a degree in a certain field is not worth the salary and decide not to pursuit it. Some people might decide not even to pursuit a degree. Eventually people will make choices not only by salary but by ‘easiness of field', benefits and job satisfaction and the market will work itself out. This is known as the ""efficient market hypothesis"". http://en.wikipedia.org... For example, I like chemistry, but I am getting a degree in Chemical Engineering over chemistry. Why? Chemical engineers make more money than chemistry majors and also need less years of schooling. 3)If your years in higher education cannot be paid off by a lifetime of work (Which one can get a higher paying job or find a job), then obviously one should not bother with higher education and higher education is not helpful to the economy in the first place. Also one can find cheaper alternatives, like online education. 4)In the United States, one finds investors or banks to loan money to start up a company. The system works fine. 5)Sorry, but I do not believe I made it very clear what I meant by good: a.Good – something that can be bought or sold that has a value. For example, food is a good. The slogan ""Education is not for sale! Knowledge is not a commodity!"" is just that, a slogan. It has no reasoning behind it. It's just an appeal to emotion argument. Of course education has a cost. Teachers, school supplies, and administrative have costs. Of course Education has a value. Why has something that does not have a value? Also, knowledge is actually quite readily available. It's called the internet and libraries. I can go onto Wikipedia and Google and find almost all information I want. I can even find more information at the library. 6) People will find ways to work around these ‘ever study'. Every system that can be corrupted will be corrupted. Those students that are there not to learn will just try to do the bare minimum to stay in higher education. Also, you also run the risk of trying to figure out how strict these regulations should be. What is permissible to be considered expelled? What's an appropriate punishment for the act? If one for some reason does badly for a semester or makes a mistake, should you expel him or her forever? How do we determine if someone deserves a ‘second chance'? If someone makes a mistake, he or she will no longer be able to get into higher education again, causing a major problem for that person. However, if we do give the person a second chance, people will take advantage of this system. Having students pay for education is the best method to solve this dilemma. Students will be able to have a second chance if they make a mistake or fail but at the same time take their second chance more seriously since he or she will have to pay for education. Furthermore, by setting behavioral regulations on education you increase the cost of enforcing these regulations. The more money education costs, the worst society is off. Conclusion: Privatization and individuals paying for education is the free market at work. The free market has been very effective in regulating itself. I have given many examples of how this system is effective in education as well. Education is available to everyone, contrary to CON. It's just that one has to go to the banks, charities or other financial markets to pay for one's education. Businesses run on the same principle and it works out fine for them. One might not be able to pay for the best school in the world, however the best school in the world, however the best school in the world cannot be provided by the public sector anyhow. Someone is always paying for the education anyways, so education is never free. The fact is, education IS for sale, since someone is PAYING for it. Education is not a commodity, since there are many different types of education. However it is a ""good"" since it does provide utility and costs money to produce. Allowing free higher education is a form of socialism. Socialism has been proven throughout history to be a failure. The resolution is affirmed."	PRO	361
361	Sb552379f-Aff1cab0b	U.S. schools should teach comprehensive, sex-positive sex education instead of abstinence (Part 2)	Mr. Debater, you want US schools to teach sex education to students because you believe that it is effective in reducing unwanted pregnancies and preventing the spread of STDs; however, you failed to explain what is “effective” in this debate, you should show certain measure that would support the effectiveness of sex education, not simply stating its noble purpose. You have to show me real evidence that shows the effectiveness of sex education, but you didn’t. Facts (abstinenceworks.org) 1. Comprehensive sex education purports to promote both abstinence and condom use, yet we see no evidence that school-based CSE programs are effective at improving both of these outcomes. 2 School-based CSE programs have shown no evidence of effectiveness at decreasing teen pregnancy or STDs, or increasing consistent condom use. 3 Only a few school-based CSE programs have increased any type of condom use (e.g., at first or last intercourse) for a significant period of time. 4 Four school-based abstinence programs have produced broad-based and sustained increases in the percentage of youth who remain sexually abstinent. Rebuttals: In conclusion, comprehensive sex education is the only reasonable course of action if we want to prevent and reduce teen pregnancy and the spread of STDs. I will concede that abstinence is the best way to truly prevent teen pregnancy and the spread of STDs. Thank you for conceding Condoms and other contraceptives do fail, and nothing can be guaranteed to work correctly 100% of the time. But while abstinence is the best option, it is almost completely unfeasible. Again, thank you for saying that abstinence is the best option. Huh? What’s not feasible? Abstinence has been there for many years now, so what’s not feasible? Please provide evidence how abstinence is not feasible. We live in a highly sexualized society where there is constant social and cultural pressure on teens to have sex, and often. Don’t believe me? Then you’ve been living under a rock. I don’t want to be harsh, but this is a serious problem: very few things are as dangerous as a lack of knowledge. Ad hominem! Teaching them sex education will only increase their desire to have sex, and since you said that there is no 100% effective contraceptive, then it’s like encouraging them to have sex without a full guaranty that they are safe. This is the real dangerous scenario. But sex is a powerful biological drive, even if you don’t ever want to have children. The best way to reasonably prevent the spread of HIV is with condoms. How can it be the best way to prevent the spread of HIV when you said that there is no 100% accurate contraceptive- no guaranty of safety. But in abstinence, there is no chance of failure, it is 100% effective in preventing the spread of HIVs. Points There are many different groups across the United States advocating for abstinence-only sex education in the schools. They include Concerned Women for America, the Eagle Forum, the Family Research Council, Focus on the Family, the Heritage Foundation, the Medical Institute for Sexual Health (MISH), the National Coalition for Abstinence Education, and STOP Planned Parenthood International. These and other proponents of abstinence-only education argue primarily that sex before marriage is inappropriate or immoral and that abstinence is the only method which is 100% effective in preventing pregnancy and STIs.1 Many such groups emphasize that condoms are not fool-proof in preventing pregnancy or STIs, and that sexual activity outside marriage can result in “serious, debilitating, and sometimes, deadly consequences.”2 In addition, many abstinence-only advocates are deeply concerned that information about sex, contraception and HIV can encourage early sexual activity among young people.63 These advocates credit the decrease in teenage pregnancy largely to the advancement of the abstinence-only message.3 An article on the Concerned Women for America web site states that “[t]his is not simply an issue of morality, but a matter of public health. The problems that have become so entrenched in our country, such as AIDS, illegitimate births, poverty, increasing crime and the breakdown of the nuclear family, can all be attributed to the debilitating effects of a public policy that condones sex without love or responsibility. … As research clearly indicates, America is not suffering from a lack of knowledge about sex, but an absence of values.”4 Abstinence-only proponents point to studies concluding that the abstinence-only education message has played a central role in the decline of adolescent sexual activity, and related negative health outcomes, over the last decade. One study reports that “…abstinence and decreased sexual activity among sexually active adolescents are primarily responsible for the decline during the 1990s in adolescent pregnancy, birth and abortion rates. Attributing these declines to increased contraception is not supported by the data.”5 Sources: [1] Concerned Women for America. Abstinence: Why Sex is Worth the Wait [Internet]. July 1998. Available at: www.cwfa.org/library/family/1998-07_pp_abstinence.shtml. Accessed October 16, 2001. [2] Ibid. [3] Abstinence Clearinghouse. Data confirms that the abstinence message, not condoms, is responsible for the reduction in births to teens [Internet]. May 17, 1998. Available at: www.abstinence.net/ArticleDetail.cfm?ArticleID=168. Accessed October 16, 2001. [4] Concerned Women for America. Abstinence: Why Sex is Worth the Wait [Internet]. July 1998. Available at: www.cwfa.org/library/family/1998-07_pp_abstinence.shtml. Accessed October 16, 2001 [5] Jones JM, Toffler W, Mohn JK, et al. The declines in adolescent pregnancy, birth and abortion rates in the 1990s: What factors are responsible? A special report commissioned by The Consortium of State Physicians Resource Councils [Internet]. January 7, 1999. Available at: www.abstinence.net/ArticleDetail.cfm?ArticleID=224. Accessed October 16, 2001.	CON	362
362	Sccfc1c03-A4d901ce2	Localize Education- get rid of the Department of Education and Common Core	"My thanks to Pro for instigating this discussion. Pro's argument hinges entirely on the mistaken assumption that the US Education system is a Federal education system. Pro wrongly supposes that the Dept. of Education is the architect of the US Education system and wrongly imagines that the Common Core initiative is a Federal instrument. In fact, The US school system is already what Pro argues it ought to be. Pro proposes 50 different school systems governed by 50 states among which competition ought to foster innovation and adaptation. But Pro demonstrates no awareness that the American school system is and always has been governed by a far more localized, granular, independent, and diverse set of political entities known as school districts. There are roughly 15,000 public school systems in the US, of which roughly 13,500 (90%) employ local school district governments to establish school curricula, budgets, and policies for 87% of K-12 schoolchildren. Most of these special-purpose local governments are overseen by independently elected school boards and the majority maintain significant discretionary powers to raise taxes, disperse funding, etc. Private schools and home schools educate the remaining 13% of children with even more independence and diversity. Most states reserve a fair amount of authority to establish educational standards, mandate testing, and maintain accountability within these local governments. [1] With a high degree of variability, school districts raise about 44% of funds themselves, another 44% comes from states, city, and county coffers and 12% comes from Federal dispersements. [2] Con maintains therefore that education in the US is already significantly localized and to a greater degree (by two orders of magnitude) than recommended by Pro. Con refutes the notion of a ""one size fits all"" Federal curriculum. In fact, the 1965 Elementary and Secondary Education Act explicitly forbids the establishment of a national curriculum. [3] Pro correctly asserts that the 10th amendment limits Federal oversight of education. Con further refutes Pro's unsupported assertion that the Common Core initiative is either unconstitutional or irrational. Common Core standards and testing were developed by the National Governor's Association for the purpose of improving consistency and comparability between the wide diversity of school systems. This was in direct response to business leader's complaints regarding large regional and local educational deficiencies in graduated students. Constitutional restrictions on the Federal Government don't apply and moreover, the 2015 Every Student Succeeds Act prohibits the Department of Education from attempting to influence, incentivize, or coerce State adoption of the Common Core State Standards. [4] Con's characterization of Common Core as ""irrational"" undermines his support of innovation through competition since competition without consistent benchmarking is non-determinative. To illustrate, let's employ a foot race metaphor in which each student is a runner. Teams are free to train, coach, and support runners as they see fit but require competition to evaluate performance relative to other teams. State Governments host competitions and serve as referees but if each referee uses a different set of standards, the results can't be compared nationally and local descrepencies cause some regional teams to never receive professional consideration. Therefore, a consistent set of standards (Common Core) is developed to allow the evaluation of competitors across the board. Losing teams are likely to find faults in the rules and some adjustment to the standards may prove necessary but such is the nature of competition and fault-finding doesn't make the necessity of standardization any less rational. The debate title suggests that the US do away with the Department of Education but the text of the debate does not take up that subject. Perhaps we'll see some arguments to support this proposal in the next round. If we were to place the Department of Education's role in the above metaphor, we might see that Department's function as the principal record-keeper and publisher of rules and results. Pro and Con agree that competition between a variety of educational curricula encourages innovation and improvement but Pro's characterization of education in the US as monolithic is simply not consistent with the facts. Competition exists today and serves to improve our present system. Removing (admittedly ammenable) devices designed to facilitate that competition such as Common Core or the Department of Education, would only weaken the competition Pro wishes to promote. [1] https://en.m.wikipedia.org... [2] https://www.newamerica.org... [3] https://en.m.wikipedia.org... [4] http://www.usatoday.com..."	CON	363
363	S99e6abf2-Af1562e9	What to study in college & why? [Career Challenge]	Introduction In my last argument, I proposed 7 study fields with 7 examples off of each one. In this round, I will argue why my choices are sound. In addition, I will state two more career options. I will also explain why some of my opponent’s choices are poor. Every individual is different, so don’t let this list limit you. I will state again, check my cited sources from my first argument. Section 1: Defense of Special Education Teacher, Massage Therapist, & Writers 1a. Special Education Teachers: My opponent puts too much emphasis on what must be done to become one. He ignores the fact how this would affect you at an emotional level. Individuals, who love to help others grow, would do whatever it takes to do so. Showing compassion to the special needs children is a way to make our world a better place. An individual would be fulfilling a wonderful purpose in life. 1b. Massage Therapist: My opponent puts the enjoyment of this career by sheer chance. If an individual loves relieving other’s people stress, they will make sure chance doesn’t decide their faith. Plus, there are a lot of salons and other locations that are suitable places for this career. Along with meeting a lot of nice people and working with great coworkers. May I remind you, one year of education will start you off making well over $50,000 annually! 1c. Writers/ Authors: Although this career: This field is risky, and yet flexible. It is comfortable, but only if you have the passion to write. To make this a career, you must be constantly writing. Don’t let my opponent scare you away from your dreams. If you love making up stories, do it. Don’t let anyone say you can’t do something, just embrace your creative side at a high level. Section 2: Defense of Financial Managers, & Police/ Detectives 2a. Financial Managers: I state again, my opponent is way too technical in his argument. He leaves no room for the viewer to consider what is optimistic about a field. This field does require hardwork, yet it’s all worth it. It’s worth it because you gain prestige and respect from your colleagues/ coworkers. Plus, you have plenty of room to climb the business latter. You could even become a CEO if you’re that good at your job. Being a financial manager is fun, because you can analyze the profitability of each section of the business. Using pie graphs, charts, and statistics; you begin to show how smart you are to your employers. Finally, the odds of dating that hot secretary just got even better! 2b. Police/ Detectives: To wear the uniform of the law is an honorable thing to do. The price of keeping you, your family, and your community safe is by risking your life to protect them. My opponent tries to make it sound like that’s a bad thing. The only bad thing here is to let good people do nothing to stop evil. Our law enforcement will always receive the degree of respect as heroes to society. Section 3: Defense of Aerospace Engineers, & Medical Scientist 3a. Aerospace Engineers: To be an engineer will NEVER lock you out of a job! With that said, it is true that aerospace in particular, does provide a strong challenge. However, those that want to be the best shall endure such a challenge. Individuals that are adventurous, strong-willed, and seek to defy the limits will excel in this field. Do not give up a career because it’s too hard, embrace the challenge! 3b. Medical Scientists: What if you could be the one who finds the cure for cancer? Or HIV? Or even immortality? The world would definitely try to discourage you into believing it’s highly impractical. DON’T be afraid to say it’s POSSIBLE! Do what you love, experiment as much as you can, & remember people are counting on your work to save them! Section 4: Against opponent’s first 5 careers 4a. Elevator Installers & Repairers: To sacrifice creativity for repetitive tasks, that itself is a sin! 4b. Brickmasons, Blockmasons, & Stonemasons: You work out there on the construction site in the hot, humid weather. You listen to orders from the architecture, and use your strength to do it. Intelligence should never be substituted for physical strength. Instead of working for the man, be the man! Become an ARCHITECT instead! 4c. Sheet Metal Workers: It provides no personal growth like the rest in this section! 4d. Plumbers, Pipefitters, & Steamfitters: Humans shouldn’t be machines that only set & repair things. We need growth in a spiritual sense. Don’t do this job for the money, only if you truly love it. 4e. Electricians: There’s an even better career then this. I call it ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING! Section 5: Supportive of opponent’s other 4 careers 5a. Pharmacist: Well…someone has to give out the medicine. 5b. Registered Nurse: It is a very good choice for its high employment rate. It is actually a pretty good choice. 5c. Software Developer: In this economy, I have nothing to complain about this field. 5d. Nurse Anesthetist, Nurse Midwives, & Nurse Practitioners: I actually don’t have anything bad to say about this. Section 6: 2 additional careers 6a. Study Field 8#: Entertainment & Sports ~ Actors Actors are like artists, they paint a picture by their performance. They express emotions suitable for the character. Don’t be discouraged by my opponent. What matters more is the passion rather than reliance on chance. Those that love what they do, will do what they love (& get paid well for it too!). You could potentially reach stardom and make it big! I know you can, but do you know you can? 6b. Study Field 9#: Arts & Design~ Industrial Designers This career choice is a blend of technical and artsy styles. You’re practically an engineer designing things. You get to manufacture products ranging from toys to as big as airplanes. You also get to work on teams to do innovative projects! Whatever is needed, you get to design it! A bachelor’s degree is required in industrial design, architecture, or engineering. Average Annual Salary: $60,000 Conclusion In the previous round, my opponent attacked me with just requirements. He emphasized stress and argued low job prospects. He also listed careers that are considered blue-collared jobs, along with additional careers that were far better. For his first 5, there is no creativity but pure servitude. My viewers please acknowledge that the value of passion outranks money. My career picks are good, but I know each one of you are different too. This is why I greatly suggested checking my previous cited sources. Consider this, most of my opponents sources branched off one of my sources. I helped him, so I surely can help you. I care more about what you, the viewer, would like to do in the future. Even after this debate is over, please continue your research to discover yourself and your enjoyments. I rest my case. Cited Sources: Last argument will provide additional sources to continue the viewer’s growth! Stick around to see them all!	CON	364
364	S45570f76-A1da3d413	In the United States, the Electoral College should be abolished.	"- Introduction I am going to once more tear down my opponent's arguments and rebuttals and show why my case remains firmly unscathed. - Regarding My Opponent's Initial Arguments 1. A coin analogy wont work as it does not embody Pro's original sentiments about how once a 50% threshold of votes is reached the others do not ""matter"". The fact remains that more people that vote for a specific candidate, the higher the chances of that candidate winning. Regardless of whether or not every vote is directly responsible for a win, every vote still counts from a probabilistic standpoint. Ergo, Pro's arguments here still fail. 2. I never once stated that giving more power to smaller states makes it more democratic, just that it makes it more fair from a holistic standpoint. Also, my opponent cited no sources or reasoning for his 19.4% calculation so it can be disregarded. I provided sources for my claim that half of the country populated only 146 out of the 3000 counties in the country in my first round. If half the population resides in only 4.86 % of the the counties, then if the winner was decided by popular vote, and everyone from those 146 counties voted one way hypothetically, a candidate could get half the votes just from just 4.86% of the counties that exist in the whole country. Since deciding the winner by popular vote isn't fair to the vast majorities of counties in the US, it should not be implemented as a replacement to the Electoral College which works so well. 3. An objective court could prosecute electors for biased voting if there was proof of such conduct. However, it is next to impossible to prove as biased electors could conjure up multiple reasons for the bad vote. Also, there is no reason to think the non-practice regarding my opponent's issue will not continue in the future so his concerns are unfounded. Pro still hasn't shown why a pure democracy is better than the Electoral College, just stating ""Democracy is the best system"" doesn't cut it. 4. Most of the time simplicity is a form of efficiency, especially considering how long it would take to calculate votes if the FPTP was abolished. Pro has not proven that his reasons against the FPTP system outweigh the efficiency of easily calculated votes. His argument still fails. 5. Pro argues against my teleportation example because the universal laws would have to be re-written to make it possible. This is false, teleportation is possible in this universe via quantum entanglement. Either way, third-party candidates have an little chance of winning presidential elections anyway, so if the Electoral College makes it even harder for that to occur there is no practical difference as the outcome would most likely be the same regardless. 6. My opponent's calculation involving population distribution this round wasn't backed up by anything; mine was. Pro implies that the democratic aspects the Electoral College embodies are exactly what it hurts but offered no argument for this. My opponent's baseless assertions can be graciously ignored. 7. I never implied that some people are more important than others, just that some voters have more motivation to make an educated vote than others. Since my opponent straw-manned my position he fails to establish any relevant point. 8. One of the main reasons those 43% of households don't pay federal income tax is because they didn't make enough income to qualify. This isn't the same as being exempt from income tax because they live in a territory; my opponent is drawing a false equivalence. So, Pro's objections miss the mark once again. - Regarding My Initial Arguments 1. This objection has been addressed in this round already. 2. Pro claims the STV is still a simple system but it is not; all one needs to do is look at what happened in New Zealand in 2004. It took over a month to calculate the votes because of the complexity involved in vote calculations. As New Zealand party MP Nick Smith writes: ""STV is a system designed for political scientists and mathematicians not voters... The local government elections were a disaster and an international embarrassment."" The STV is not practical in any sense. 3. A rebuttal is a form of arguing so one cannot rebuttal without making a ""new argument"". Either way the no new argument rule only applies to this round according to the rules outlined. My opponent also once again states that if the Electoral College doesn't match with the popular vote that it is not ""correct"", in order to argue for deciding the winner by popular vote. However, this assumes already that deciding the victor by popular vote is correct. Since Pro assumes his conclusion to argue for it, this amounts to nothing more than begging the question and circular reasoning. 4. The Electoral College is not anti-democratic, it is just less democratic than other potential election methods. This is not necessarily a bad thing though, because a pure democracy would force us to deem a handful of counties and states as more important than most of the country. That is unacceptable, because issues like the water crisis in Flint, Michigan would go largely ignored. 5. My opponent says that the efficiency comes at the price of more democracy. However, a pure democracy isn't the greatest thing since sliced bread like my opponent implies, as majority of the country is vastly uneducated on political issues. So, leaving important choices like who becomes the president to the majority of Americans is more scary than anything. Therefore, just because an election done via the Electoral College doesn't match with the popular vote doesn't mean it wasn't successful. If anything, in many cases, it could be considered a good thing. 6. What my opponent fails to realize is that the idea of the Electoral College is inherent to American Federalism, so his reasons for wanting to abolish the Electoral College are irrelevant to my point here. It still stands that we might as well get rid of Federalism and states in general if we get rid of the Electoral College, because the Electoral College is the only system which can embody those principles accurately. 7. My opponent argues that the Electoral College has caused more bad presidents to win the election than good. Thus, in his mind, this point alone shows why the resolution has been proven. This fails for two reasons: (i) It is debatable whether or not the presidents he mentioned were actually bad presidents (ii) It invokes a quantity over quality logic which is flawed With regards to (i), Benjamin Harrison for example did much good, like forcing Chile into paying reparations to Americans. The War on Terror stopped many terrorist cells from causing harm to American cities. Also, what Trump said before he got elected does not dictate what he will actually do once president. With regards to (ii), it could be argued that abolishing slavery trumps whatever bad a handful of presidents might have done. Therefore, based on (i) and (ii), Pro's logic falls flat. 8. Again, just because X is not as democratic as Y, that doesn't mean X is less desirable by default. This is a false axiom Pro uses in many of his arguments that simply hasn't been shown to be true. - Conclusion ""Equal voting rights"" would mean a handful of counties and states would have half of the voting power, and it would be a crime to ignore the needs of the majority of states because they have less people; this would be catastrophic. My opponent simply doesn't realize that the US was never meant to be a pure democracy, and there is no reason to assume a pure democracy is to be desired."	CON	365
365	Se0dd9576-A357fc612	are the constant phone tappings and violations of privacy worth it? (adressing the NSA and PRISM)	"Every single day we face a breach of our rights in exchange for a slight chance of dealing and intercepting ""terrorist acts."" Is it worth it in the end? I choose to believe it isn't, but what about you?"	CON	366
366	Sd68885cc-Ad315aa3c	School does not an education make	"School attendance is not a positive outcome in and of itself. It should be encouraged only if it is conducive to learning and acquiring the meaningful education needed to break out of the poverty trap. Blaming the poverty cycle on kids failing to attend school ignores the fact that schools are failing children. Public schools are often overcrowded, with poor facilities and lacking the resources necessary to teach children with challenging backgrounds. In 2011, 80% of America's schools could be considered failing according to Arne Duncan who is the secretary of education1. Schools in developing countries often lack qualified teachers, and can suffer from very high staff absenteeism rates2. A more effective school system would result in fewer kids dropping out, not the other way around. Additionally, involved parents are integral to effective education3. Simply blackmailing them with money to do the right thing will not work. In fact, you might actually experience backlash from parents and kids, who'll see school as a burdensome requirement that is met just so you can keep the electricity on. Throwing kids into school where they do not have confidence, support, and the necessary facilities is not productive. 1Dillon, Sam (2011), ""Most Public Schools May Miss Targets, Education Secretary Says"", New York Times, [Accessed July 21, 2011].  2 World Bank, ""Facts about Primary Education"",[Accessed July 21, 2011].  3Chavkin, Nancy, and Williams, David (1989), ""Low-Income Parents' Attitudes toward Parent Involvemet in Education"", Social Welfare, [Accessed July 21, 2011]."	PRO	367
367	S3b05a433-Adf72b2e1	Physical Education should be taught differently than it currently is.	"Sorry I had to forfeit round 3, I was in the Appalachian for a week...Anyways.... 1. My opponent claims that 'Kids have less and less time to be able to 'consolidate', or process information. If PE gives more homework than kids will have nearly no time to consolidate. The public school system will fall further' However, evidence proves that: - Kids who are more physically active tend to perform better academically. - Eight health surveys involving population-representative samples of children and adolescents from the United States,15-17 United Kingdom,18-20 Hong Kong21 and Australia22 observed statistically significant positive correlations between physical activity participation and academic performance. -A national study conducted in 2006 analyzed data collected from 11,957 adolescent randomly chosen the U.S. To examine the relationship between physical activity and academic performance. Adolescents who reported either participating in school activities, such as PE and team sports, or playing sports with their parents, were 20 percent more likely than their sedentary peers to earn an ""A"" in math or English.17 -Time Management expert and author of the best-selling book, The Seven Habits of Highly effective people, Steven Covey, states that the average teenager spends nearly 21 hours a week on TV, video games, etc. That averages out to be three hours a day. An hour or so a day may be a debatable good relaxation time, but three hours is undeniably a waste of time. 2. My opponent claims P.E. Is not failing because there are a decent amount of fit people in the world (75%) -Childhood obesity is over 50%. If you are on a standard grading scale, under 50% in a grade is a terrifyingly low 'F' -Even if it were hypothetically 75%, a 'C' averages out to a 2.0 GPA. No good College will accept a student with a 2.0 GPA. My opponent, with all due respect, feels a 2.0 GPA is acceptable in the arena of physical fitness. America is equal to a mediocre community college in terms of physical health. 3. My opponent accuses me of being discriminatory towards certain body types. Required physical fitness is discriminatory to one's body type and personal choice concerning appearance. Furthermore, this includes dieting logs under the same logic. Furthermore, he has directly and indirectly claimed dieting and exercise to inevitably fail for certain body types. - There are three major body types : Ectomorph, Endomorph, and Mesomorph. There are specific weights, exercise methods, dieting methods, etc. For each type. However, ALL types require physical exercise and nutrients. If my opponent would deny this fact, I have the statistics to prove the facts correct. However, I believe it is obvious that everyone requires physical exercise for maximum health benefits. My fitness logs and diet are adjusted to different body types so they can reach their maximum physical and health potential. 4. My opponent accuses me of advocating socialism through diet logs. However, diet logs never excluded one type of food or another, they only require a healthy balance of food. If the diet logs succeed to an extreme, food companies may compete with one another, to an even greater degree than they do now, to produce healthful food products. Competition, by definition, is an important and vital aspect of capitalism, not socialism. Furthermore, I do not exclude unhealthy foods from diet, but advocate a lessening amount of them. I also anticipate the degree of cheating that will be on the diet logs. I never claimed the diet logs to be perfect, but only to improve health. 5. My opponent further claims that the lack of PE leaves time for students to be Physically Healthy on their own. However, school systems require students to be at school for a certain amount of hours a day. If their time is not consumed with physical activity, it will be consumed with rigorous academic work. As previously proven, this is not good for either the student or the education system. It will further prevent them from further physical activity. For many people, physical activity is the 'consolidation' my opponent has proven people need. 6. My opponent has further assumed that his statistics lead to proving that Physical Education drives students to participate in physical activity less. I have further looked over his statistics and there are, with all due respect, to many holes and assumptions to take his argument seriously. For example, we do not know when the two statistics leading him to this conclusion, http://www.drwoolard.com...... and http://calorielab.com......, were made. They could have been created three years ago, allowing things to drastically change. Or they could have been created three years within each other, giving no real correlation between the statistics due to possible change in time. A second example is my opponent further assumes that physical education is the reason why Colorado and Mississippi have such a drastic difference in their quality of health. He ignores other factors, such as the fact people from Mississippi have a less healthy diet than those in Colorado, especially due to fried foods. There are many other examples, but for now, the argument can sufficiently give two. 7. My opponent also claims that 'Strict PE requirements leave kids in gym classes that turn them off from the idea of being physically fit and healthy since they are quite strenuous, fatiguing and an overall annoyance to the students. This leads them to become fatter and fatter'. However, successful physical fitness is meant to be strenuous at times. Health experts, such as Dr. Oz, agree that, although gradual increases in strenuousness are necessary, easy physical exercise gets people nearly nowhere. A muscle, when exercised, is meant to be strained. If it is not it can not break down and therefore become stronger. If kids' physical exercise is not strenuous, it explains why obesity rates are so high and why it is so vital for strenuous exercise to become a requirement. 8. My opponent further claims that it is good for people to decide whether or not they exercise or eat properly. Although this has been previously addressed in previous rounds, I will address it again. There is an undeniably vital connection between health and happiness. If my opponent denies, I will be glad to bring out the evidence. A necessary part of health is both exercise and proper dieting based on the individual's body type. Reforming the education system will increase both health and happiness. It is vital for a happy and healthy generation to reform the Physical Education System. Sources: http://www.activelivingresearch.org... http://www.doctoroz.com... https://www.stephencovey.com... http://www.hotexercise.com... National Association for Sport and Physical Education and American Heart Association. 2006 shape of the nation report: Status of physical education in the USA. Reston, VA: National Association for Sport and Physical Education; 2006."	PRO	368
368	S3b05a433-Aba1a4d6d	Physical Education should be taught differently than it currently is.	Physical Education is a fantastic idea. Improving the health and fitness of individuals is absolutely vital to their overall personal success in the world. However, the methods used to teach Physical Education in High Schools have made the class worthless. Those that are already fit and in shape are those that participate in physical education. However, those that vitally need exercise and good nutrition often do not participate. The New York Times recently reported that Murray High School in Provo, Utah recently had PE teachers bribed by students to exempt from Physical Education. I propose: 1. There be a 'fitness log' requiring students to cardio and muscular exercise X minutes a week for at least four times a week. Granted, there will be excessive cheating and lying. However, there will be a significant increase in those participating. Many band and orchestra classes require similar sheets called 'practice logs'. For the past twenty five years without exception, each band or orchestra winning state required a practice log. This attests to its effectiveness. 2. Physical Education teachers become stricter concerning participation. Currently, kids that loaf around and half exercise often have an 'A' in PE. PE teachers should only give students 'A's if the student completely, 100% participates in PE and complete practice logs.	PRO	369
369	S32cc52fb-Ad678ef0a	Health care/education is NOT a right	"Thanks for your response, Pro. First of all, I'd like to note that Pro has not offered a defense of his initial argument that ""In order for something to be a right, everyone must be able to exercise the 'right' at the exact same time."" At most, Pro has challenged whether a few of the rights I identified (from the Bill of Rights) are actually ""rights,"" since they depend on compulsion. I'll get to that in a bit. But I also identified several rights which Pro has not rejected - the right against self-incrimination, freedom of speech and religion, and the right to send children to religious school. As I demonstrated above, none of these rights can be exercised by every person at the same time. That line of reasoning by Pro this stands rebutted. But let's get into the meat of this debate, which turns on how we define a ""right."" The rights I identified all come from sources of positive law - the U.S. Constitution, Supreme Court case law, and international law, specifically. My opponent doesn't coherently define a ""right"" - he says instead that ""Rights...just are."" They are not something that can be ""given,"" but only ""recognize[d]."" ""They just are"" isn't even an argument; it's a bald assertion that nobody should accept on any topic. What is the source of rights? God? The state? Natural law? I would reject all of those answers, for various reasons, but we need to make the effort to define what a ""right"" is if we're going to argue about whether certain things - like healthcare, education, or jury trials - are rights or not. So to answer this question, let's contrast how my opponent and I are applying rights theory. For my opponent, all rights seem to boil down to a single right - the right to not be compelled or coerced to do anything one does not wish to do by anybody, limited only to the extent that one must honor the reciprocal right of others to be free from coercion. But this is not a right that has ever been broadly - or even narrowly - recognized within any society. Setting aside for the moment whether this is workable at all in practice (it isn't), it represents a deeply ahistorical understanding of what ""rights"" are, because woven into the very concept of rights is the concept of Rule of Law. While this space is much to restrictive to examine the full history of rights theory, two historical examples will suffice. The Magna Carta - probably the first legal implementation of rights as we conceive of them today - protected every ""free man"" from being imprisoned, striped of possessions, exiled, or made the object of force ""except by lawful judgment...or the laws of the land."" Five hundred years later, the US Constitution does similarly. It doesn't put a blanket restriction on being deprived of ""life, liberty or property"" - it instead requires such deprivations to be made according to ""due process of law."" Rights are - as a matter of history, common understanding, and common implementation throughout the world - a legal concept. Thus, my opponent is incorrect when he states that, for instance, taxes are theft, because although he is being deprived of his property, it is through the operation of due process of law. Our democratically elected representatives established a legal taxation scheme that applies to all equally, and it is administered according to the legal standards developed by Courts and agencies in applying that law. Simple, consistent, rule of law. Taxation does not violate my rights or Pro's, because due process is accorded. And if one of us were to cease paying taxes, our liberty might be taken away, but again, only after a criminal trial in a court of law represented by an attorney before an impartial jury of fellow citizens, and according to rules and sentencing guidelines that have been publicly established and made freely available. Rule of law. The jurors' rights are not being violated, for they are compelled to attend by legal process. Rule of law. Rights are, then, are not like a scientific law - they don't pre-exist, awaiting discovery. They are created by us, by the consensus of society over time and implemented in our legal codes. Like ""honor"" or ""detective stories"" or ""Tuesday,"" they are socially created concepts that only have meaning only to the extent that we agree as to what they mean. These meanings may be firmly culturally entrenched, perhaps, but subject to changes in our collective understanding. As a modern understanding of human rights was codified into international law in the aftermath of World War II, we, as members of an international community, identified healthcare and education as among the human rights worth furthering and working to ensure for every person. Every democratic nation on the planet - and many that are not - has implemented systems via government to ensure that these rights are satisfied. They have become part of the consensus of rights protected widely throughout the world. Because of that broadly shared consensus, I hold that healthcare and education are rights."	CON	370
370	S2ea51f9-Ade598b3f	University education should be free	"Apologies for my absence in the previous round, this will be my opening arguments. Premise: Economic disparity increases poverty Economic disparity (or income disparity) is defined as ""The difference between the incomes of the richer and poorer parts of society. The more unequal the distribution of wealth in an economy, the greater the income disparity"" A country with higher rates of economic disparity will tend to have a larger lower class, no matter the general wealth of the population. This being because since lower classes have less, this means the wealth of the country in general would be more concentrated on the upper class, Hence, increasing the poverty rate of the country regardless of the collective GDP. This can be seen in the United States. The following is graph of the US poverty rate from 1960 until 2010: http://1.bp.blogspot.com... As of 1979 (when taxes were at their lowest) this saw the increase in the US poverty rate. (Assertion of this premise is necessary for my next argument). Argument: Free Tuition reduces economic disparity A main reason deterring people from going to University or other forms of post-secondary education revolves around cost. As many potential students are unable to afford the tuition of the university. By being unable to access Universities, a large number of job opportunities are shut from them. A lack of a better job than leads to a lack of a lower income, The correlation between post-secondary education and higher incomes can be seen in the graph below: http://www.ccl-cca.ca... A lower income, combined with a lack of education then leads to the inability to pay for any possible education, hence leads to poverty and an inability to escape said poverty. Or in other words the ""Cycle of poverty"" (https://learningequality.org...) With Free tuition, it is possible for low-income students to access universities and have acess to far better job opportunities. As a result, this lowers the gap between the upper classes and the lower classes. This can be seen when comparing the US with various other countries with Free (or Subsidized tuition). In the Nordic countries (Sweden, Denmark, Norway and Finland) there universal to free tuition for post-secondary education and healthcare, along with no tuition fees students are received a monthly grant to help cover living expenses. While yes taxes are much higher in the Nordic countries the populace is more educated and economic disparity is much lower, leading to a stable economy. And since this would lead to a higher income on average, it therefore compensates for the high tax rates. Compared to the U.S where students are going into more and more student debt. As of mid-2000""s the average American student debt is above $24k. This would lead to greater economic disparity as less people are able to access any form of post-secondary education (as previously mentioned). In November 2012 the U.S. Census Bureau said more than 16% of the population lived in poverty, including almost 20% of American children, up from 14.3% (approximately 43.6 million) and in comparison to Sweden whose poverty rate was 3.7%, one of the lowest in Europe. And this is all despite the fact that The U.S is over 30 times larger than that of Sweden (Swedish GDP as of 2013: $557.9 billion USD. American GDP as of 2013: 16.8 trillion USD) In conclusion, Economic disparity increases poverty, and Free Tuition reduces economic disparity, hence decreasing poverty. Sources: 1.lexicon.ft.com/Term?term=income-disparity 2.http://higheredstrategy.com... 3.https://en.wikipedia.org... 4.http://1.bp.blogspot.com... 5.http://ftp.iza.org... 6.https://learningequality.org... 7.https://en.wikipedia.org... 8.https://www.google.ca... 9.https://www.google.ca... 10. http://www.inequalitywatch.eu..."	PRO	371
371	Sb1cf8ab-A74066d79	Direct popular vote should replace the electoral college in U.S. presidential elections.	"To start off, a few clarifications: 1) I agree that the United States is a democratic republic. THIS MAKES IT A REPUBLIC. Democratic is just an adjective describing Republic. For example, happy bread. Just because a piece of bread is happy doesn't mean that it isnt still bread, it is just happy bread. 2) The Senate DOES have to do with the Electoral College because it protects state rights, as does the Electoral College. 3) Popular vote gives porportional voice to INDIVIDUALS not STATES. The voice of the smaller states with direct popular would NOT be porpotional to the larger states. 4) PRO- ""The burden of proof still lies upon me to prove that the Direct Popular Vote should replace the Electoral College in presidential elections. I have shown how each of my contentions fixes fundamental flaws in the Electoral College."" However, this is not true. When I attack your third contention by saying that direct popular vote will force candidates to ignore states too, your defense is that the Electoral College has the flaw of ignored states by candidates, NOT that direct popular vote fixes the problem. 5) The Electoral College and Direct Popular Vote are similar in regards to the fact that neither of them solves the problem of ignored states within campaigns. And since Pro had the burden of proof to say that direct popular vote solves the problems of the Electoral College, this point goes to the negative. 6) Distortion doesn't need to be fixed if it is put there PURPOSEFULLY to protect small states. 7) My opponent asked me what the harmful effects were of democracy, and that I failed to show any actual effects. Therefore, I will list all the harmful effects that I have shown throughout the entire debate. ""Democracy itself is not a stable form of government, instead it is the gradual transition from a limited government to the unlimited rule of an oligarchy."" ""the founders had good reason to look upon democracy with contempt because they knew the democracy of the early Greek city-states produced some of the wildest excesses of government imaginable. In every case they ended up with mob rule, then anarchy and finally tyranny under an oligarchy."" 8) Small states aren't prioritized through the Electoral College, they are made equal to the larger states through the Electoral College. I dont see how equality of states is a bad thing. 9) Faithless electors have never decided an election. Therefore, why ""fix"" a problem that has never occured before and statistically probably never will. 10) This seems to be one of the more important points of the debate which is why I will answer it again even though I already answered it in #4. I agree that the Electoral College has flaws in regards to some states aren't recognized during campaigns. However, in order for this point to be awarded it to Pro, Pro must prove that direct popular vote can solve this problem. It doesnt though, because as I proved in my second contention, with direct popular vote, the candidates will only focus on larger states, ignoring the smaller states. Bob Nutting of the Maine House Republicans affirms this by saying, ""In the election of 2008, because all votes in the electoral college are important, Maine saw candidates and their surrogates. If the criteria for winning were the popular vote, they would have camped out in California, Texas, New York, Florida and other populous states."" Since Pro started the debate, I would like it if he only used the final half of the fifth round to say a couple closing sentences at most. Thank you I can only see a negative ballot for today's debate."	CON	372
372	S9f212a53-A83bb59a0	Voucher Education	"While I agree that the status of public education is appalling, your implication that poorly performing public schools need be closed is nonsensical. Schools perform poorly because of poor funding, and subsequently, less funding is given to poorly performing schools through taxes and grants. Does that seem like a plan for success? No! And let me paint a picture to show you why. It is a well-known fact that the vast majority of a school's income is derived from property taxes collected from the surrounding area. The issue here is that often times school boards purchase property in poor areas because the land is cheap and then erect massive schools that cannot possibly be supported by the poor households that surround them. Then the slippery slope begins. These under funded schools perform poorly on standardized tests because they cannot support their respective school population on their current income and good teachers are let go because their jobs are evaluated based on their student's performance on these tests. The government also uses these tests to decide what schools are afforded federal assistance, and funding is often yielded to schools that perform well. Then the bad schools are put on hiring freezes because they get no help from the Federal Government and as a result they limp along with 30-40 kids in each class. My home state of Florida tried to rectify this by passing an amendment to the state's constitution in 2002 limiting class sizes to 18 for classes from pre-K to 3rd grade, 22 from 4th to 8th, and 25 from 8th grade to graduation. Upon first glance, this seems like a great idea except for the fact that teachers now have to take pay cuts to supplement the additional hiring and because they are government employees they cannot strike because it's grounds for immediate termination. Unhappy teachers are unmotivated teachers and unmotivated teachers suck! So now, depending on which state you live in, you have the choice of being paid more and having standing room only in your room or getting paid less and having proper class sizes. Keep in mind that whether you go with the former or the latter, the pay doesn't come close to properly compensating you for the hours put in. It's a vicious cycle and I don't think that bulldozing the under-performing schools and allowing parents to choose where their kids go will make things any better. The parents will all choose the ""good schools."" These schools will then be hampered by overpopulation and the fact that their new students, who have suffered from a poor education since kindergarten, delay the learning process of kids who have been properly educated. Parents of the properly educated students are then put in the same position that those who wanted out of the bad schools were in. If your plan ever comes to fruition the only result will be the spread of bad education. A possible solution would be to privatize School Boards into Not-For-Profit Organizations. I agree with your deduction that private schools are far more efficient then their public counterparts. So why not give competent businessmen (and women) an opportunity to execute a proper business plan? Obviously the election of individuals is not working out. The majority of people never properly evaluate candidates of any position other than President or American Idol Winner and this willingness to fall into the wave of bias political advertisement makes citizens incapable of making a sound decision. And honestly, the proposed candidates usually aren't worthy of the position to begin with because the people with the money to run for office can usually afford to live in a good school district. I agree that there is a problem, but your solution is the answer!"	CON	373
373	S1ec571b6-Ae64eaffa	Should We Keep The Electoral College	First of all, your argument that 3rd part candidates can arise with popular vote, lets take the 2000 election, if we used the popular vote, than Al Gore would win, like he should have, but with the electoral college, Ralph Nader was going to be able to get to 1 state like Florida, take some of the votes from Al Gore, and have Bush win it. If you are saying that you do not think that is fair that someone with only 30% of the vote can win the election and 3rd party candidates will take advantage of that, one, out of all of them, most of them still chose that candidate, and two, what is so wrong about having 3rd party candidates? Canada has 10th our population and they have 5 parties, and Israel has 10 parties and only 8 million people. Also, with the two party system, it has made it IMPOSSIBLE for people third party candidates to get elected president. In fact, Bernie Sanders, an independent in the house for 16 years, and an independent senator for 8 years, he had to run as a democrat just to be electable. I know this does not have anything to do with the electoral college, but I just had to point out the weakness in your statement. The reason they have been visiting places like New Hampshire, Iowa, and Nevada is because they are swing states. As for Vermont, I do not know, maybe they are trying to turn it around, but New Hampshire, Iowa, and Nevada are swing states. Also, later you said, Colorado, Virginia, and New Mexico, first of all, Colorado has 8 electoral votes, and Virginia has 13, so they are not small, and second, as I said before, they are swing states. Even though some are small states, swing states can matter, like New Hampshire in 2000, just 4 electoral votes, and if Al Gore won it, he could have one the election. Yes. recounts are a pain, and they do cost a lot, but what is more important, getting the right president, or saving money on recounts. We would not know what president the people really wanted, and if you look at Bush, he the electoral college, and look what he did to this country, much more damage than a couple million dollars. I would also like to add this, it is unfair that just a couple hundred votes would mean that they would get 100% of the votes. And, if we have the popular vote, then candidates won't ignore the rest of the states, they will not only focus on the swing states, they will focus on all states, for example, though they will never win the majority in Texas, guess what, in 2012, Obama still got 3 million votes, and for republicans, though they will never win a majority in California, in 2012, Romney almost got 5 million votes, so they will not ignore any state, because they will know they can still get a lot of votes.	CON	374
374	Sa05dcf19-Ad255269d	The Electoral College Voting System In the US Should Be Replaced	"""The founding fathers new that most people would try to steal this presidency."" I don't understand what Con is getting at here. How does one steal a job? Especially a job that most people don't want. There are a lot of people who would love to be president, but that's a vast minority of people. I've never heard of a 500,000 way election. ""A popular election in this case is radically vicious. The ignorance of the people would put it in the power of some one set of men dispersed through the Union, and acting in concert, to delude them into any appointment."" This quote is reffering to the lack of information that most people had at the founding of the nation. It could take weeks for information to get from Washington, DC to voters in rural Georgia. Horses were mostly used for short distances of transportation. [1]. Also, I'd like a citation of the Constitution, because people are not quoted in the Constitution. ""The Founding Fathers knew that that Electoral Colleges would be able to fix corrupt federalism."" ""That which can be asserted without evidence can be dismissed without evidence."" -Christopher Hitchens ""By the constitution, people are required to choose their leaders that will represent them in the U.S. State Congress"" People are not required to do anything. ""in the U.S., about 60% of the voting eligible population votes during presidential election years, and about 40% votes during midterm elections."" If only 60% of people vote in the biggest election year we have, and 40% vote on off year elections, that doesn't sound like a requirement. [2]. There are many countries that have compulsatory voting, the USA is not one of them. [3] ""Richard Nixon received 43% of popular votes, but won 301 votes in the college system. Electoral colleges will always have the ability to elect the right leader for this nation"" I'm going to break this down one part at a time: ""Richard Nixon received 43% of popular votes, but won 301 votes in the college system."" This is precisely what's wrong with the system. A minority of voters got to choose the President. 57% of people wanted somebody that wasn't him. Also, even though he won a lot of states, he only had a few thousand more votes than the other major candidate. [4]. The Electoral College system is very disproportionate when giving votes. ""Electoral colleges will always have the ability to elect the right leader for this nation"" Well it has failed tremendously. The use of the term ""always"" means that if I can find one instance where it did not pick the right leader, this claim is untrue. The Electoral College gave us Bush in 2000, even though he lost the popular vote. Bush was probably one of the worst presidents we've ever had. The economy had it's worst recession since the Great Depresion because of him [5]. He forged evidence that Saddam Hussein had WMDs in order to help out the Vice President's company Haliburton [6]. Also, 13 embassy and consulate attacks resulted in hurt/killed Americans during his time in office [7]. ""Everyone will have the opportunity to be involved in the governmental system."" This would be true whether or not we had the Electoral College. ""For instance, Obama had 61.7% of popular votes while Romney had 51.3% of popular votes."" I feel as though if 113% of the country voted, somebody would have noticed. Putin won his last election after the highest voter turnout in the history of ever. 140% of all Russians went to the polls. I don't think that Con successfuly refurted any of my claims. I extend all arguments. [1] http://en.wikipedia.org... [2] http://www.fairvote.org...; [3] http://www.theguardian.com... [4] http://www.270towin.com...; [5] http://thinkprogress.org... [6] http://www.truth-out.org...; [7] http://thedailybanter.com...; [8] http://www.economist.com..."	PRO	375
375	Sfe4e6726-A7672a41	Resolved: Affirmative action should be practiced in college admissions.	"Go ahead and extend case. I have nothing further to add at this point, so i'll use this round to reiterate my arguments. C1: AA is just reverse discrimination. It's not just to attempt to correct the past by punishing the present. Minorities have faced discrimination in the past, I don't think anyone can deny that, but it's against America to favor anyone over anyone. This makes it against America to practice AA. ""We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal."" When you value minorities over the majority, you destroy that equal creation. We need to stop living in the past. Yes, we've all done some bad things in the past, but reversing the roles today won't help anything, and as later contentions prove, it makes things worse. C2: By practicing AA, you destroy any meaning of its accomplishments. Instead of bringing to the publics eye just how competent minorities are, you create the image that they aren't good enough to get into college on their own, and they need government assistance. You essentially build yet another barrier to those who face discrimination. C3: When you practice AA, you undoubtedly exclude some definitely worthy students. Colleges can only accept so many people, and when they have to reserve spots, you take up some of those spots. America is a country that has (since WWII) been recognized as a superpower. Slowly, we've been losing this spot, and having ingenuity is a huge factor. By excluding these ingenious people out of the college of their choice, you destroy this ingenuity and the whole country suffers as a result. As I said in the comments section, I don't mind if my opponent posts a new argument or two in the final round. Once again, as long as it realistically fits in the character limit, it's cool. I look forward to the response from my opponent and wish them the best of luck"	CON	376
376	Sab7e692e-A1601da9c	a penny is worth more then a dime	If you continue to refuse to go first I can wait tell round 4 to post an argument and thus be the only one who argued and by default my argument would be the best. Its your turn, go first.	CON	377
377	Sed52489a-A7d846ab4	A university degree has far less worth than it once did	Distinctions can be still be made between those who entered university simply for a more ‘rounded’ education or as a stop gap before working full-time, and those who attended university for the sole purpose of furthering their career. It is beneficial that a crowded marketplace means that people are having to stay on at university longer in order to gain more unique qualifications – this means that those in the top jobs have far more knowledge and education than they would have 50 years ago when further qualifications were not needed for distinction.	CON	378
378	S5dd7d039-A737da003	We should abolish the electoral college	I believe that the electoral college is quite useful to our country, in that it is very rare that the popular vote majority is not the same as the electoral majority. Many people who do not believe we should take the time to count the popular vote are correct, for it is quite possible for the machines that would probably count it may either be rigged or naturally malfunction, leaving again with a president the popular vote did not actually want. Also, if we did change to the popular vote, many regions that may be solidly Republican and highly populate would have a major advantage over the other states. The electoral vote limits that and helps make sure that the voting is truly a democracy.	CON	379
379	Sb1cf8ab-A9ad00474	Direct popular vote should replace the electoral college in U.S. presidential elections.	"Thomas Jefferson once said, ""Democracies have ever been spectacles of turbulence and contention have ever been found incompatible with personal security or rights of property and in general have been as short in their lives as they have been violent in their deaths."" Because I agree with this quote I negate the resolution: Direct popular vote should replace the electoral college in United States presidential elections for the following reasons. Direct popular vote goes against the intent of the Constituiton and it protects the rights of small states. For the purposes of today's debate I would like to provide the following definitions: Democracy: rule by the majority (merriam webster dictionary) Republic: A political order in which the supreme power lies in a body of citizens who are entitled to vote for officers and representatives responsible to them. (the free dictionary.com) Contention 1: Direct popular vote goes against the original intent of the Constituion and the Founding Fathers. Direct popular vote should not replace the electoral college because it is a step of democratization for the United States. Supporters of direct popular vote argue that democratization is desirable. However, it is the opposite. Joe Wolverton author of The New American says, ""any democratization of the presidential election process is an affront to the express intent of our Founders. The men who constructed our federal government zealously guarded against permitting the harmful influence of democracy to infect the inner workings of our nation."" The United States should not taking steps towards democracy because America is not a democracy for good reason. Alexander Hamilton once said, ""We are a Republican government, real liberty is never found in despotism of the extremes of democracy."" Any form of democracy within the U.S is not disirable. The John Birch Society's documentary, Overview of America, affirms this by saying, ""Democracy itself is not a stable form of government, instead it is the gradual transition from a limited government to the unlimited rule of an oligarchy."" Any form of democracy is not desirable because it assists in the Gradual destruction of a republican government like that of the United States and turns it into a governmental rule of the few that denies individual liberties. Contention 2: The electoral college protects small states influence within the presidential elections. According to Kristina Dell, ""with a direct popular vote...the selection of the president would often be the biggest, most populous states with little attention paid to smaller ones."" Without the electoral college the voices of small states would be drowned out by the larger ones. Bob Nutting of the Maine House Republicans says, ""In the election of 2008, because all votes in the electoral college are important, Maine saw candidates and their surrogates. If the criteria for winning were the popular vote, they would have camped out in California, Texas, New York, Florida and other populous states."" The electoral college is a necessity in order to give small states the right to have a voice in presidential elections which is why i urge a negative ballot for today's debate. And now to attack my opponents case: In response to his first contention sub-point A, he says that ""the electoral college produces an unfair scenario in favor of small states."" However, without the electoral college, the small states would get no say in presidential elections at all, they would be drowned out by the larger states (see second contention). He also says that ""free and fair election is an imperative condition that a democracy must have as a foundation. However, as i proved in my first contention America isnt even a democracy, so obviously this point doesnt stand. In response to his first contention sub-point B, he basically says that the distortion of the electoral college must be solved, but this isnt true since the distortion was specifically put in place to create ""free and fair elections"" with regards to equality of states. In his second contention he says the electors that are voted for by the people can go against the popular vote of their state. However, according to U.S. Electoral College FAQ's ""Throughout our history as a nation, more than 99 percent of electors have voted as pledged(1)."" Which means that electors voting against their states is the exception to the rule. Also, according to Joe Wolverton, ""In the ease of the Electoral College, the Founders inteded the electors to be a deliberative convention of wise men brought together for the sole purpose of soberly choosing a President form among the available candidates."" This shows that the intent of the Founders was to trust electors more than the people to choose the President. In his second contention sub-point A, he says that direct popular vote fixes the problem of faithless electors Dramatically change the outcome of Presidential elections. However, how can faithless electors ""dramatically"" change elections if they only occur 1 percent of the time? He also states that ""the election needs to be put back in the hands of the people for which it was intended."" However, the original intention was for the electors to elect the president not the people. The people only influence who the electors will vote for. In his third contention he says that because of the electoral college, candidates focus all their attention on a few batleground states; however, as I stated in my second contention if direct popular vote decided presidential elections, then candidates wouldnt need to pay attention to small states, only large ones with high populations which means that although the electoral college doesnt solve the problem of candidates ignoring certain states, neither does direct popular vote which means that this contention doesnt prove why direct popular vote should replace the electoral college. Therefore, it is void. (1) http://www.archives.gov..."	CON	380
380	S574204c1-Ad15f7321	Personal Bankruptcy is worth doing	"Personal Bankruptcy is one of the worst choices a person can make. To be fair and honest, I""ll say there are benefits, much in the same way doing heroin feels great""for a while""then things start to go downhill. Benefits: You will be protected from the majority of a wide array of debt collectors. You will, on a chapter 13 plan, be able to pay back mortgage, etc., etc., at a chosen rate. Consequences: Bankruptcy will destroy your reputation. By law, bankruptcy is on the public record. People all around you will find out about it. Many of these people will not be kind, including people in your circle of friends, or even your family. You can bet it will be truly stressful. First off, your credit will be absolutely destroyed for some time. Credit companies will make life hell. Banks and the like won""t give out mortgages, car loans, etc., so good luck buying things. It will become more difficult to get a good job, being that many employers nowadays check credit information before hiring. Future landlords will decline you, because they will check your credit. Your insurance may very well take a leap into the heavens, and, if you discharged medical debts, your health is at risk, because hospitals and the like won""t want to treat you. If you discharge a mortgage or a car loan, you may lost them to the bank. Aside from those reasons above, you must calculate how you will feel, as a person, who cheated the system, which is what you are doing. You are a failure and a liar in some respects. Unfortunately, many folks are forced into bankruptcy, but to choose to declare bankruptcy to worm your way out of paying off debt""that is not okay. That is how the U.S. got itself into its current state."	CON	381
381	Se6ffa8fb-Ae2d810f5	Tuition fees will improve education recieved.	Universities are facing testing times at the moment. The recession has left public finances in a mess and universities are facing cuts in their funding from the government. Lecturers are losing their jobs, spending on research is being frozen, and with a record amounts of applications to universities, there are fears that many could miss out. [[http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/8491729.stm]]. Tuition fees are needed by universities to pump money into their institutions to provide a consistently high level of education for their students. It is clear that public money cannot wholly sustain universities in the future.	PRO	382
382	S7519549b-A731fd63d	Animals are worth more	"Darwinism-1.the theory of the evolution of species by natural selection advanced by Charles Darwin. My opponent acknowledges that humans evolved superior to the other animals. My opponent argues that this does not give us the right to treat them like nothing. He claims that there should be laws and regulations that make it socially unacceptable for humans to manipulate animals to ways they see fit. I will argue that humans have every right to manipulate animals to ways they see fit. I will argue first that there have been a number in incidences where animals do not care how humans feel. Than I will prove that the only reason why humans have thrived for so long is because of our manipulations of these inferior beings. Animal Moral- This argument by far is the weakest. First of all, morality is an idea that humans made to keep stability and order. Animals do not have a clue of what this idea is, and will never understand what this idea is. The basic instinct of an animal is to survive. Humans have surpassed this need. Let's just say humans were forced to live in the jungle again. There is a chance that the smarter and stronger humans will survive, but the weaker more compassionate humans will die. Here is the reason why: ""Although wolf attacks do occur, their frequency varies with geographical location and historical period. Gray wolf attacks are dangerous not only for the victims, but for the wolves, who are often subsequently ended, or even extirpated in reaction. As a result, wolves today tend to live mostly far from people or have developed the tendency and ability to avoid them. The country with the most extensive historical records is France, where nearly 7,600 fatal attacks were documented from 1200""1920.[1] In modern times, they occur most often in India and neighboring countries. There are few historical records or modern cases of wolf attacks in North America. In the half-century up to 2002, there were eight fatal attacks in Europe and Russia, three in North America, and more than 200 in south Asia.[2] Experts categorize wolf attacks into various types, including rabies-infected, predatory, agonistic, and defensive."" https://en.wikipedia.org... 7600 fatal attacks were documents from 1200-1920. Try compassion for these animals. Couger(Lion, Panther, and Bob Cat attacks) At least 20 people in North America were killed by cougars between 1890 and 2011, including six in California. More than two-thirds of the Canadian fatalities occurred on Vancouver Island in British Columbia. Fatal cougar attacks are extremely rare and occur much less frequently than fatal dog attacks, fatal snake bites, fatal lightning strikes, or fatal bee stings.[citation needed] Children are particularly vulnerable. The majority of the child victims listed here were not accompanied by adults. Here are ten murders by Snakes: Canadian Boys while sleeping: The 2 boys were sleeping in an apartment that was above an exotic snake store. The owner had a python, and the python climbed up a series of vents. The python killed the 2 little boys. Boa Constrictor Almost Kills Texas Woman: Luckily, her daughter called the cops. Pet Python Turns on Owner in New York Australian Mother Finds Snake in Bed with Daughter http://www.epicadamwildlife.com... As I have stated, animals do not really cling to the ideas of morality. A lot of deaths stated were killings of owners. Why would a snake kill its owner? Don't you think the owner and the snake would have bonded? One might be thinking these are stupid questions, because they are stupid questions. Animals are proven to be incapable of feeling the emotions compassionate people do. Note(Animals kill animals too. I cannot provide statistics on how many animals kill animals per year, because it goes without saying. Animals survive off of eating other animals. My opponent cannot deny this truth.) Wasted effort-Note(If animals are endangered, than they should be cared for because it benefits humans) What do you have to gain when you are caring for animals that are not endangered. Nothing. It is really pointless to continue an effort that has no use. Animals sub-consciously follow Darwinian laws that state: 1.water 2.food 3.living space 4.homeostasis ( stable internal conditions/environment) If anything, people that start these organizations are doing more harm than good to animals. Animals have already found their place in the world. They live in jungles, forests, and deserts where they can survive. They don't need more protection. Stop watching cartoons. Stop looking at apes, and contemplate on what personality they have. Stop trying to edit natural laws that suit your sympathy for animals that don't even need it. Stop being na""ve."	CON	383
383	S7519549b-A8fd01b3b	Animals are worth more	As my opponent points out that animals follow their instinct of survival and doesn't care about anything else. He also says that wolf attacks occurred a lot in some countries but that it has decreased. He mentions that they have developed the tendency to stay away from people, this means that they want nothing to do with humans. When the attacks occurs it's in the habitat of the wolf. A wolf doesn't go in to a city and attacks someone for fun. They attack or defend themselves if they feel threatened like every other animal and humans. Obviously they attack when we enter their territory and their home, so would we if someone entered our home and we felt threatened by them. Wolfs are pack animals, meaning that they live in groups of 5 - 11 wolfs. They are social animals, they live with their family and their mate and they hunt together as a group. My opponent mentions that 7,600 fatal attacks happened over a period of 520 years, in the year of 1883 about 1,386 wolfs were killed from hunting or poison in Central Europe. https://en.wikipedia.org... My opponent asks me why would a snake kill his owner? A phyton can grow up to almost seven metres long. Keeping it in a small terrarium is not fair and it doesn't fulfill its natural needs, if it is a long phyton it cant even move properly. Therefore it might attack its owner it it feels trapped. Not all animals are fit to be pets, if you keep a dangerous animal as pet you cant expect that it wont feel threatened.	PRO	384
384	Se6ffa8fb-Ab897ffa1	University education is an investment.	But the government does benefit from people going to University. People who go to University will earn more and therefore they will pay more tax. It is in the government’s interests to pay for people to go to university. They should see it as their investment, not ours. Regardless of whether the loans are available or not, people do see the finances as a hindrance to their education. Many will think that their family cannot support themselves and so they need to earn money to keep their family afloat. If the Government made education free, then these people would be enabled to go to university and they will be able to get educated. Surely an educated nation is in the government’s benefit as well? Therefore, the investment yields a greater return for them on their capital. And quite aside from the national benefits of an educated population, there are absolutely no guarantees of future profits comparable to the outrageous tuition costs of some universities (particularly in the US). President Obama paid back his student loans only after becoming a US Senator and publishing a best-selling book [[http://www.foxnews.com/politics/elections/2008/04/09/michelle-obama-baracks-book-sales-paid-off-our-student-loans/]]. How many far less successful and wealthy alumni are saddled with a comparable debt? Income is never guaranteed, while interest on student loans is guaranteed to accumulate.	CON	385
385	S26722052-Ae33efe64	anything worth talking about	"I think individualism is great. Its a real way for people to show who they are and not be like ""every one else"". I personally think that I am an individualist. I do not like most mainstream music or books or even people.... I like going off the map and exploring. That's my view whats yours?"	CON	386
386	Sf5635870-A4716be8a	A National Curriculum: Lower Education for a Lowerclass??? I think not...	"""People in lower classes dont deserve a lower education!!! Thats not fair to them. Dooming them to the same fate as their parents because the state wont offer them a better education only contributes to the poverty problem. Not to mention it passes judgement on people based their social class. This is america!! Its not a aristocratic caste system where only the elite can get a higher education."", It is fair, they are obviously dumb, which is why they are lower class. Why should we lower the standards all the time. It can only lead to a dumbing down of America, we should get rid of the dumb people in society. ""There are so many advantages to this. My biggest point though is EQUALITY... Giving people lower education because they are in a lower class is not equal. It is only setting a lower level of expectations on kids who dont deserve it."", Equality can never be achieved ever. Their is always going to be some students disenfranchised by this system, which will lead to lower standards. All in all forget the dumb people, we need elites to run are soceity."	CON	387
387	S68f43582-Abbfed28c	Public education in America is the death of freedom	"Ad Hominem: Pro makes a personal attack on me, assuming I have not had to pay taxes. Untrue, I have had a job and payed taxes and I don't care if illegal immigrants benefit from me paying taxes. Free Lunch: Im not sure my opponent understands free lunch.This is a saying in economics. ""To get one thing that we like, we usually have to give up another thing that we like. Making decisions requires trading off one goal against another."" Free lunch is a system in which I don't have to give another thing. Were already paying taxes, so why are you against the benefits of others? I have no idea what free lunch morality means. My version of morality is that acts that promote the most well-being are moral. Allowing immigrant children to have an education promotes the most well being, so it's moral. Immigrants And Taxes: Once again illegal immigrants pay taxes. 1.Sales tax 2.Income Tax 3.Property Tax. Illegal immigrants are tax payers and are entitled to the benefits of tax payers. Did you even care to look at my chart? So it's not hey jump the border and get free stuff. It's actually hey come over, contribute to society and you are entitled to your benefits. Most Important Point: EDUCATION IS A BASIC HUMAN RIGHT. P1: The universal declaration of human rights, declares all humans have a right to education. P2: Children of illegal immigrants are human C: The children of illegal immigrants have a right to education Liberal Guilt: As for as I'm aware liberal guilt is a derogatory term used to describe the left who want to make the world a better place for those less fortunate. What's wrong with wanting all people to enjoy a good standard of living? I'm not understanding how this is an insult. I'm an atheist, but wouldn't jesus want these poor immigrant children to have an education :)? Pro says: ""Just try that approach in Mexico and see what kind of education you receive for free."" I don't want to do that, but I might try that with: 1.France 2.Norway 3.Sweeden 4.Denmark 5.Spain 6.Germany States that actually have free, high quality education. Just To Be A Cool Kid, I'll Use The Utilitarian Calculus To Substantiate My Claim Of Morality: R = P * [(I * D ) + (F * E) - (X * E)] In case you are unfamiliar with the hedonistic calculus, I shall explain. R is results I is intensity (scale of 1 to 10) D is duration (scale of 1 to 10 for simplicity) F is fecundity(1 to 10) E is Extent ( 1 to 10 for simplicity) X is Impurity (I change the scale to avoid cantor and set theory) I=10. I'm sure immigrant and immigrant children are extremely happy for education. D= 10. The benefits of receiving an education, would last for all future generations. F= 8. The well being of future generations will be gained but the far right will be pissed. E= 10. All immigrants and immigrant children and tax payers are involved. X= 2, because of the far right :( R= (10^2) + (8x10) - (2x10) R= (100 + 80) - 20 R= 160 Conclusion: Providing immigrant children with education is moral. The only way to change that is to drastically change the values, which there is not rationale for. Final thoughts: 1.Pro has not responded to the fact that illegal immigrants are tax payers. 2. Pro has not refuted that providing illegal immigrant children with education is moral. 3. Pro has not responded to the fact that denial of education never leads to freedom. 4. Pro has not responded to the universal doctrine of human rights. Once again for emphasis: YOU CANT DENY EDUCATION, IT'S A BASIC HUMAN RIGHT. Sources: http://en.wikipedia.org... http://en.wikipedia.org... http://www.itep.org... http://en.wikipedia.org...'t_no_such_thing_as_a_free_lunch http://www.hcad.org..."	CON	388
388	Sb1cf8ab-A6b3fea0d	Direct popular vote should replace the electoral college in U.S. presidential elections.	"First of all, I would like to apologize, I should have declared if one of my questions was a clarification question. It seems that by me not declaring what questions were clarification questions my opponent got confused about what I was asking. In response to my second question he said that America is a Democratic Republic, which is a type of Republic which means that America is in fact a Republic. However in response to question 2a he says that it is not applicable since america isnt a Republic but in the previous question he confirmed that America is a Republic. In response to my third question he agreed that popular vote represents the popular majority which was a clarification question. In 3a he says that the Senate should not be ablolished because it serves the states. However, if you apply his answer of 3a to the question of 3b it would say that since the Senate should not be abolished because it protects states rights shouldnt the electoral college not be abolished because it protects state rights? And finally in response to question 3c he simply asks for me to define sentimental attachment instead of answering the question which I will do. The sentimental attachment to popular majorities only in relation to the Electoral College basically means that if you have no reason to abolish the Senate even though it doesnt represent popular majority, then why only apply rights of the popular majority in attacking the electoral college? And now I ask my opponent to answer this question now that it has been clarified. In response to my fourth question he accuses me of not reading his case; however, this is a clarification question that AGREES with him. It simply asks if the burden of proof is on PRO which as he displayed throughout his entire case he agrees with that question. 4a is another clarification question...it is asking that since the burden of proof is on PRO then if one of his contentions doesnt prove that direct popular vote fixes the problem should the contention be void? I am asssuming he affirms this question considering he says that it is in his case. And finally in 4b he doesnt respond at all he simply says that I didnt read his case. However, since he agreed to question 4 and 4a in his case which means that if he doesnt prove that one of his contention fixes one of the problems proposed in that contention, it is void. Question 4b is questioning the validity of his third contention since he admitted that ""the Electoral College ALSO has integral flaws"" which means that he is implying that direct popular vote has integral flaws which means that it DOESNT fix the problem proposed by PRO in his third contention which makes his third contention void. In response to question 5 he only answers the second part of the question which was that the Supreme Court is still applicable. He also asks where this question came from. It came from my opponent's entire rebuttal to my first contention which is basically saying that the Founders werent always right and the electoral college is in a different situation now than back then. My fifth question is simply asking, if the Constitution is still applicable today (for example the Supreme Courts ruling of the Constitutionaliy of laws), then why is the Constitution not applicable only for the Electoral College? I would like to ask my opponent to briefly answer this question now that it has been clarified along with question 3c. Defenses: Founding Fathers could have seen distortion since they purposefully placed it there. Electoral College is no longer applicable, but the rest of the Constitution is? How is the Electoral College no longer applicable, we still have citizens, states and a Federal government dont we? Impact is the harmful effects of democracy. Democracy is as harmful now as it was in the 1770s. Refutations: Contention 1: Distorts our democratic process We are a republic not a democracy. a) Imbalance of power voting was purposefully placed to protect small states. b) Distortion must not be solved since it will result in the loss of small states influence in presidential elections. Contention2: The Electoral College is subject to the whims of the few rather than the public as a whole. That is the purpose of a Republic. 99% of electors vote accordingly to how they pledged. (U.S. Electoral College FAQ's) a) If it aint broke dont fix it. Faithless electors have never decided an election. Contention 3: The Electoral College forces candidates to ignore the majority of states and focus on a few closely contested battleground states, instead of the nation. I agree that this is a negative impact of the electoral college; however, as stated in my second contention, direct popular vote wouldn't be able to fix this problem either which he admits to be saying ""the Electoral College ALSO has integral flaws."" Therefore, his third contention is void. I can only see a negative ballot for today's debate."	CON	389
389	Sfe4e6726-Ab5da056c	Resolved: Affirmative action should be practiced in college admissions.	"I stand in affirmation of the resolution. Resolved: Affirmative action should be practiced in college admissions. ==== DEFINITIONS ==== D1: Affirmative action (heretoforth referred to as AA): action favouring those who tend to suffer from discrimination. [1] [1]Oxford Dictionary, http://www.askoxford.com... ==== OBSERVATIONS ==== O1: To affirm the resolution, PRO need not show that AA should be practiced in ALL college admissions. If it should be practiced in any considerable group of college admissions, then the resolution is affirmed. O2: To affirm the resolution, PRO need not support a specific implementation of AA - PRO is free to choose to support any implementation that fulfills the resolution. O3: AA does not refer to any specific groups of people, it simply refers to people who tend to suffer from discrimination. If a person does not suffer from discrimination, AA cannot be given to that person. O4: If by the end of this debate there is at least one resolutional advocacy that has not been negated, then the resolution is affirmed. CON's burden will be to negate every resolutional contention PRO brings up, where PRO is required merely to have one undefeated argument that affirms the resolution. ==== CONTENTIONS ==== C1: AA PROMOTES EQUALITY OF OPPORTUNITY. As noted in D1, affirmative action applies only to those who ""tend to suffer from discrimination."" People who ""tend to be discriminated against"" tend to have opportunities taken from them. Therefore, in the interest of everyone having equal opportunities, AA seems like a balancing factor. In fact, the extent to which this implementation of AA gives extra opportunities can be directly balanced against the amount of opportunity that person has had unfairly taken from them due to discrimination. In this sense, it is like a type of 'reverse' discrimination, the equal and opposite force necessary to put a person's opportunity equation back into equilibrium. = I reserve the right to add another contention or two next round. This is not an abusive tactic, since I have not and will not be flooding my opponent with more arguments than he can realistically argue against in 8000 characters."	PRO	390
390	S5e977bfe-A360d49bd	Public Education is Better for Society than Private Education	"Ok, pro is forgetting some key elements of a private schools that make them better for the student. Also remember that the premise of the debate is for you to prove that ""public schools are generally better than private schools for the public"". I'm proving that private schools are good for the public. 1. Private schools do not always promote different social classes You have to understand the reasons parents send their kids to private schools. A huge amount of the reason is because of religion. The rich don't even send their kids to private schools as much as you think. It's about 1/8 of ""rich"" families choose private, and that's not rediculous. Also, look at this chart (1). Average Private School Tuition: 2011-12 All Levels Elementary Secondary K-12 Schools All Schools $10,740 $7,770 $13,030 $13,640 Catholic $6,890 $5,330 $9,790 $10,230 Other Religious $8,690 $7,960 $16,520 $8,160 Non-Sectarian $21,510 $18,170 $25,180 $22,440 You didn't even look at the religion aspect of private schools. That's the main reason kids go to private schools, and you only looked at the non-sectarian ones. Check out this chart (2). The overwelming majority for private school education is religion and the families that do sacrifice a lot to send their kids there. The classes aren't generated by the schools because of that. Sometimes, they can be torn down. 2. Private schools generate a far better learning experience You are selectively including religious and non-sectarian private schools in your data when you need them. The reason that teachers take that paycut (especially at religious schools) is because of the religion element. They share religious beliefs with their students and can relate with them better. They choose to take the paycut because they care more about helping the kids, and there is obvious proof to this. Look at this chart (1). Private schools do better in all aspects except the last one, and that is excepted. Public schools should help kids with understanding kids from different backgrounds because they have more kids, and that means more diversity. They don't, as it's a tie. Also, kids at private schools do a lot better on the SAT (1): Saying that the private schools are less stellar in the learning experience is silly. Here's even more info about how much of a landslide in education quality all from source number 1 (1). Percent of kids at various levels in reading: Grade 4 Private Public Basic 82 67 Proficient 49 34 Advanced 14 8 Grade 8 Private Public Basic 91 77 Proficient 57 34 Advanced 10 4 Percent of kids at various levels in math: Grade 4 Private Public Basic 87 82 Proficient 48 41 Advanced 9 8 Grade 8 Private Public Basic 83 73 Proficient 47 34 Advanced 14 8 For all other subjects it's more of the same landslide except in most cases, more extreme. 3. The option of private schools give parents flexibility Parents can choose whether they want to take a sacrifice in their lives or not in order to get a better education experience. Since most reasons for the private school is religious, then the option is certainly helpful. Parents who are religious often want their kids to be in that enviroment, and that creates less controversy between kids at schools. Also, some kids do better in a smaller class. Maybe their personality fits that better. 80.5% of parents who send their kids to private schools think that the smaller class size is important (3), so I'd say that aspect gives flexibility as well. Conclusion: The benefit in education quality, the connection between the students and teachers, and the flexibility all point to the existence of private schools being a positive to society. It also all points to there being a huge benefit of private schools versus public. (1) http://www.capenet.org... (2) http://nces.ed.gov...; (3) http://eagnews.org..."	CON	391
391	S816da028-A60cda6b7	Resolved: Direct popular vote should replace Electoral College	"Hi I would like to make this a Public Forum debate, where you argue mainly based on evidence. I hope that's ok because I usually debate in this style. The old saying goes, ""If it ain't broke, don't fix it"" well, the side proposition says, ""If our democracy is broke…. Fix it!"" Resolved: Direct popular vote should replace electoral vote in presidential elections. Definitions I would like to define direct popular vote as voting done by members of the public directly, through a system where all votes are considered in the final decision. I define electoral vote as the current voting system within the United States, where the members of the Electoral College represent each state vote for the presidency. As the proposition, I support the resolution for the 3 following reasons: -the system of Electoral College is inherently flawed -the system reduces American agency -Direct popular vote maximizes collective liberties. 1. The system of Electoral College is inherently flawed and must be discarded Sub point A the system right now does not follow the principles of democracy. A truly democratic government is one in which all people have an equal say in deciding who is to represent them. The Electoral College structure as it stands, essentially ignores the political will of the minority of any given state. Through a system of direct popular, similar political opinions from multiple states could band together to contribute to the over-all number of supported for their party. Unfortunately in status quo, the supporters of a particular party are isolated from their counter-parts in other states; reducing the overall value of their vote should they lose. This means that the voice of the 51% of the people is infinitely louder than the voice of the 49% which is fundamentally unfair. Source: (Democratic, Henry Liddell, Robert Scott, ""A Greek-English Lexicon,"" at Perseus) Sub point B many people do not agree with this system It is the opinions of the citizenry which matters most in regards to the method of democracy. Should the majority of Americans prefer an alternative system, than it would be entirely counter-intuitive to keep the current system. The vast majority of the Americans want direct popular vote. The real question isn't whether we should change the system to direct popular vote, but rather why is it that we have not changed it yet! We have to replace the Electoral College system with the direct popular vote. In Gallup polls going far as 1944, only about 20% of the public has supported the current system. This meniscus percentage has not increased significantly since then. The people have spoken and it would be wise to listen. Source: www.nationalpopularvote.com/ Sub point C people will either stop voting or contribute to the polarized political culture of the United States The Electoral College awards electoral votes based on a winner-take-all method: the candidate with the highest number of votes in each state gets all of the state's electors. This causes millions of votes to be effectively uncounted. The sad reality is that if an individual lives in a state where the vast majority votes for a party that they do not support, there is absolutely no incentive to vote. When a person knows it is essentially impossible to have their vote make a difference, there really is no point in participating in the political process. This forces the politically passionate to physically move to another state if they want their vote to matter at all, which we think is entirely unreasonable. Even if they do move, we think this is not in the best interest of the country. When you only have vastly polarized states with highly segregated political opinions, this tends to further isolate citizens from the opposite party and heighten political tension between the parties which hurt the political process as a whole. Source: Michael E. McGrath explains why in ""The Electoral College Inhibits Democracy,: written fro electionreform.org 2. This system selectively reduces the agency of marginalized American citizens The Electoral College system fails to show nation popular will In 2000, George W. Bush had 271 electoral votes and Al Gore had 266 electoral votes, but he had 50.2% of the popular vote while George W. Bush only had 49.8%. The narrowness of the results in California caused anarchy within the political structure resulting in a decision by the Supreme Court which was fundamentally undemocratic. Had a direct popular system had been implemented; the entire country could have distributed the hyper-burden placed on Florida, mitigating the problems caused by the political stress. Source: 2000 Official Presidential General Election Results, State Elections Offices, December 2001 3. Direct popular vote maximizes the democratic liberties of all Americans (John B. Judis concludes in ""Shut down the College,"" written for the American Prospect) Eliminating the Electoral College and nationalizing presidential elections could promote the proper use of the 14th and 15th Amendments by guaranteeing that each citizen enjoys equal access to voting opportunities through uniform ballots and voting machinery, and the availability of polling places. The Electoral College prevents the United States from compliance with Article 21 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of the United Nations which calls for ""...elections which shall be by universal and equal suffrage..."" as a basic, unalienable right of all mankind. The US is not alone in failing to comply with this universal human right."	PRO	392
392	Sd0a8ad59-Aa355a39a	Animal Testing for non-medical reasons. Are the deaths worth it>	Life on earth has evolved for billions of years. From the tiny prokaryote to the Dinosaurs of old to our current population species have relied on others to survive. There is a shortage of resources in this world and we all compete for them. Plants for example undergo temporal separation and spatial separation so that they germinate at different times of the year (so every plant can get enough sun) and so they don't grow in inefficient environments. What plants also do is allelopathy which is a nice word for poison. They poison their neighbors so they can survive. From Walnuts to Sages to Marijuana, poisons are made. What does this tell us about humans. We, like all life, are in a race with every other living thing. Some things help us for now and some things hinder us. In a world where 15 million human children die of hunger per year, having something organic to test experimental crop techniques on is great. In a country where malaria kills millions, testing irradiation techniques on animals to kill the sperm let us perfect this technology for use on tsitsi flies which killed their populations (and stopped malaria). God forbid we ever needed to kill off our own sperm (I read a great short story with this premise) we know how we can do it. What about the birds we sent down into the mines to test for gas. Countless human lives have been saved b/c of this. What about DDT testing on birds. If we didn't do this DDT might still be slowly killing us all, animals included. Then there is the profit gained from animal testing. Money that can go towards helping others. If I test an animal and buy a car its bad but if I test an animal and save 100 others its good? I can give plenty of examples of how testing has saved humans and/or animals. I am interested to know your framework for deciding who wins. Do you want to maximize biomass or total cells? Is a cow worth a human life? On to some rebuttals. 4. Morality We humans agree that we all have rights. We do not inherently have them. Our rights are on a piece of paper. We consent to these rights for many reasons. Should animals have them too? Maybe, but currently they don't have them. That is why it is morally acceptable to kill/test an animal. 3. Cash is king and who says it is bad. The best course of action is based on a cost/benefit analysis. Sometimes computers work better than animals. Sometimes not. 2. Humans and animals catch diseases much in the same way. Marijuana developed its psychoactive qualities to poison insects from eating the plant. Marijuana affects insects almost exactly how it affects us. Our nervous systems are even more similiar in animals. Computer simulators sometimes fall short and there aren't adequate labs often where outbreaks occur. We can quickly test animals albeit inefficiently w/o labs. Sometimes the cost/benefit favors a lab, sometimes it doesn't. 1. So this is inefficient science. It still tells us something for little cost. I hope to convince you to that animal testing can be good for humans, bad for animals, good for animals, bad for humans, or any combination of the three. Banning the testing outright would deprive us of many benefits. More humans would die and even if computers could be used studies would cost more (hence more people would be deprived of the study for longer or prices cost more so more people indirectly suffer).	PRO	393
393	S51e5652c-A73335946	Education nowadays should be mostly computerized	"In the last round, I am not going to reiterate what I counter-argued in the last round. It would be a waste. You could read the last research that he posted. It has more valid points pertaining to the arguments or point of view that I adapt. 2009 - Ferguson, J., Tryjankowski, A. Online Versus Face-to-face Learning: Looking at Modes of Instruction in Master's-level Courses Journal of Further and Higher Education Vol. 33, Issue 3, August. 219-228 or you can read the extract that I posted in the previous round. About how long term memory works and the techniques behind storing something in it, you could read online. Use google or forums to find out, dont enroll to any courses ;) Research also the difference between a causal relationship and a simple correlation between two variables. I am not going to lecture the debate on what I studied years ago, he is too ignorant to listen. In this round, I will talk about a possible applicability of the technology to a university. I will take harvard and its business management course. I took a business management course in kings college London university, so I am familiar with the difficulties. I will outline some the difficulties that existed back in the time. I dont think it would be so wise for the debater to deny my experience, because it was and is pretty common to many other places. So here what the difficulties were: - Not enough resources for all students. Books in the library were limited to few students. You had to wait for students to return particular books or order them online. - Lectures werent recorded. If you missed a particular point in the lecture or simply didnt attend it (perhaps was ill), thats it, there is no other way to refer to it. That could mean that you could write irrelevant things in the exam, which would lower your score. - Lecture notes most of the time didnt become available online. - Some lecturers were very bad, which lowered the score of all the class or big part of the class. - Sections of the material were difficult. Some sections in managerial finance and managerial economics were difficult even to bright students. - There was no assistance (or extremely very minimal) from the lecturer outside the class or from any of the member of the group. - There was no preparation before the exam. So how some of the points that I mentioned can be fixed? - Put as many resources online.. So accessibility is very easy by all students. - Record all lectures. Dont record new ones unless they are better than the old ones. That also means, bad lecturers should not participate in the recordings. If a student, decides to go to classes, and he finds out the lecturer is bad, he can always fall back on the online previously recorded lecturers. - Use university forums to create a community that helps. - (Preferable) Create some web apps to help students drill some of the material. So for example, if you are taking a spanish course. Create some Spanish quiz apps. So how can all that be applied to a university such as Harvard. Such a university needs to shift its business model to cover greater number of students. From a hundred to thousands or even more. That means shift learning online. Through online courses. I know the debater will bitch about he fact that he provided some research for face-to-face learning being superior to online learning. But lets assume it is true, and there is a difference of lets say 10%. All what a student has to do is try 10% harder than the student that is present on campus. .. or alternatively attempt to come to US and pay quarter of million tuition fees (or $158,800 if you decide on taking MBA). My opponent will ignore that point and go back to reiterate his old statement ""that face-to-face interactions are necessary for long term memory encoding.."", that is because he is either totally oblivious to what I write or simply ignorant, or thick as a brick.. I dont even know. Okay, so Harvard, could transform to online learning gradually without hurting its profitability. First, it could shift all its resources (apart from the books) online, including recorded lectures. Wait a generation of students and conduct research to see the effects of the change that it made. If the change didnt havent a bad effect or if it had a positive effect it should keep the change, and incorporate it to an online program, which would allow it to profit more and make education accessible and cheap to a lot of potential students. Online students would mostly have to travel to the campus to attend the exam, and pay for the marker to check his/her exam. With time, the university could build an online community that would support different students, and build apps that assist students in their learning. Thats it! a very easy implementation."	PRO	394
394	S32cc52fb-Afa9f7c5b	Health care/education is NOT a right	"In the last round, my opponent articulated at least a partial theory of rights, based on the idea that rights are grounded in the physical ability of people to perform actions - these actions are then ""rights,"" like the ""rights"" to speak, walk, grow food, etc. that my opponent identifies. But there are several immediately obvious problems with this theory of ""rights"": -First, one cannot coherently derive from this theory the primary ""right"" relied on by Pro throughout this discussion - the right to be free from coercion. Some people are physically capable of physically coercing others - why is it not their ""right"" to do so? Now, my opponent might appeal to universality in order to negate this point - that not *everyone* is capable of such domination, and therefore the ability of some to coerce others is not a ""right."" I would point out that not everyone is physically capable of speech, or of walking, or of growing food - do the mute, the wheelchair-bound, or the physically weak negate the rights my opponent listed? If not, is it simply because the *majority* of people are able to exercise these rights? If so, then we are back to simple majoritarianism, which my opponent rejects. -Second, how does a theory of rights based on physical capability reject a right to education or healthcare? People are capable of learning. People are capable of healing. How are these not then rights? -Third - and this is merely a side-point for my opponent's consideration, since it does not directly respond to any specific argument above - how does one derive a right to property merely from physical capability? If people are physically capable of growing food on the same land, how does this justify one person fencing it off and appropriating what had been used in common? -Finally, even if we accept the non-coercion principle as a second theoretical axiom, there are plenty of awful things we can do to each other without coercion. Do people have a natural right to masturbate in front of children just because they are physically capable? If you say yes for the sake of consistency, then I must reject your theory of rights as incapable of recognizing what I suspect is nearly universally a morally revolting notion. I suspect my opponent is incapable of articulating a coherent theory of rights because his primary interest is in developing a philosophical fig-leaf for a radical anti-government ideology. But my opponent's rejection of law as a source of rights - and therefore of Rule of Law as a positive force in human history - is deeply misguided. My opponent abhors force and coercion, but doesn't seem to realize that these are, to all available evidence, an inherent part of the human condition. Without a government in place, the human condition resembles Hobbes' state of nature, or perhaps present-day Somalia - the war of all against all, with life nasty, brutish and short. Governments - even many repressive ones - are generally an improvement on this situation. Even better are those governments in which leaders are constrained by a public set of rules (laws), and even better still are those in which citizens have a say in what those rules are. I reject my opponent's argument that government lacks authority except through force - government (and even more so, constitutional, rights-based government), is a restriction on force. Compared to my opponent's never-tested theory which rejects Rule of Law as a premise, I can point to the successes of democracies around the world in advancing human rights, even as those records are not perfect. I'll take the real-world evidence of Rule of Law any day. People aren't under ""illusions"" about the source of governmental authority - they simply rationally prefer a regulated monopoly on force to an unregulated, entrepreneurial model of violence. So, to the last point, which is again whether education and healthcare can be recognized as rights. My opponent correctly notes that these rights are routinely denied by nations around the world - and the crisis of women being restricted from education is particularly pointed. He also asks a fairly profound question - ""Which arbitrary group of laws created by man should we adhere to?"" It's a great question, but my opponent is apparently blind to the fact that his idiosyncratic philosophy of voluntaryism is just as arbitrary and man-made as any other. But recognizing a concept as man-made, or even arbitrary, does not limit its usefulness - just like the days of the week are arbitrary, man-made, and useful by common assent. I do agree that rights, as defined by law, are man-made. So what? They have greatly increased the measure of human flourishing in the world. Show me a better system - and more to the point, demonstrate a way to leverage power in favor of human development superior to legal rights - and sure, let's go with that. But my opponent has failed to do so. I don't agree that rights are arbitrary. They've been developed over centuries, through institutions designed to maximize democratic legitimacy, to further the goals of human freedom. That some nations violate these rights is no reason to throw them out the window. Rather, that serves as an incentive to strengthen rights through governmental and international institutions, so that when rights are violated, the violators can be held to account. Thus, I stand resolved that education and healthcare are rights, for the reasons stated in the first two rounds. My opponent has failed to provide a credible rebuttal as to why the international recognition of these rights should be rejected. I thank my opponent for this debate, and would be happy to debate him in the future."	CON	395
395	Sd5ad7f78-A4a2f9a81	John jay College is the best school ever.	Well, a lot of students at John Jay would agree that they are getting their money's worth and more. The quality of the school out weighs the cost.	PRO	396
396	S863dddcf-A7bf965de	Formal education (K-12) ought to be compulsory in the United States	"PRO 1A 1. Yes I can. It's not even a logical stretch to say that compulsory education will lead to more kids attending school, which leads to more kids with diplomas. Your case's benefits directly entail kids *not* going to public school, which reduces graduates. 2. The US is rights-based, yes? I.E. it's all about individual citizen's rights and welfare. That's to prevent tyranny of the majority. We can't just blow off the minority because Con says so. Also, given that our job market is driven by education level, making sure that the most individuals succeed is the only thing that can maximize benefit to the state as a whole. I don't know how to make it clearer. Pro maximizes both individual and collective benefit. 3. That still invalidates your source as a piece of offense, since my 1A says that the diploma is a gateway for employment, not a college degree. We covered this in RD 2. 1B 1. First of all, not a strawman. Second of all, yes there is. Privatization is exactly that. Since capitalist institutions seek to maximize profit, rather than social gain, students who can't foot the bill on their own are denied education. You cannot maintain the benefits of CE while not having CE. See 1B-2 (below). 2. Then why the heck are we debating? You assert, again, that you can claim all the benefits coming out of the Pro advocacy but you don't ever tell us how you plan on motivating a privatized school system to do this. I'm not asking you to make plan text. But the voters and I *expect* you to be able to, logically or otherwise, prove that a privatized education system will offer all students an education without the incentive that CE provides. 3. I was. That was my warrant that states can mandate participation in activities that better the state as a whole. 1C 1. I'm not presupposing anything. Look to RD 3. I don't believe anything is perfectly equal now. I'm saying Con results in a loss of equality. With regards to privatization, that is the only alternative to CE, since CE = public schools. Hence, you are de facto arguing for privatized schools. 2. First, the American public dubbed it as such. Big difference. And, per previous arguments, Con does shut school doors by fundamentally changing both the goals and obligations associated with public schooling. Kids spend 7+ hours of their day at school. How does that not warrant it being a support system as well as an educational institution? 2A 1. Problem solving and critical thinking skills are universally useful. According to all of my evidence in 2A, schools teach skills, not subject areas. Look at the standards I posted. Who doesn't need to read, or write complete sentences, or speak coherently? The subjects are used as ways to diversify cognitive thinking skills. Not everyone may want to read, or write, or speak, but that doesn't mean that they don't need to. I've already proven that a diploma is a necessity, but I'd say cognitive higher thinking is right up there, too. 3. It actually has everything to do with the resolution. We can't universally apply educational standards without a CE model. Again, look to the harms of privatization. Without government oversight (in this case, at the state level via departments of education), standards *cannot* be enforced. That's just a reality of the US education system. 2B 1. Already did prove otherwise. I'll make this a voting issue so that I don't have to repeat what I've said already in RDs 1-4. 2. This is also going to be a voting issue, readers. See the above 1B-2 response again. 3. Besides the whole parents who are incapacitated issue (and that child services is hardly an appealing option), do you suppose that our welfare system can handle all the new cases you'll be throwing its way? We are talking about millions of people. Ex: 30.5 million children were on a free/reduced lunch plan in 2007 alone. Con says just let them go hungry, which, as the WFP states, will severely affect their ability to learn all these awesome new concepts he wants to forward in the Con world. However, my 2A proves that we get the education reform he touts, but only if we stick to CE. But, food isn't even the most important issue at hand. Look at his ""benefits"": we get an educational system that is actually focused on educating and we eliminate trivial truancy cases. First, the focus is where it needs to be right now. Second, what is the real monetary harm of trivial truancy cases? How is this even quantifiable in the round when compared to the loss of rights? Homeschooling options within CE basically solve for any rights abuses he can claim, so I'm still outweighing. CON C1 1. First, if you are educated under the system described in 2A (which right now kids are), then you are far more likely to be educated than if you just didn't go to school. Second, that really doesn't matter at the point where you cannot succeed in the US without a diploma. No, the two don't *always* correlate, but in general, they do. We aren't debating absolutes. 2. Way to glance over everything important that I said about public school obligations. Food is a necessity to a good education, says WFP. So, if you want your educational system to be equal access, you are obligated to provide students with the meals they require. And lunch is sort of essential, dude. Even if you aren't aiming for equal access (which is a rights-based obligation via the USFG, so you don't really have a choice), human beings need food. And you have these human beings in your possession for 7 hrs min. per day. 3. Remember this from RD 4: ""The benefits when we negate are 1. an educational system more focused on educating and not supporting…"" To achieve this benefit, you have to prove that the Pro world contains little to no useful education. I'd say that's basically your C1 right there. If I prove CE provides the only useful education in the round, that's a voting issue for me. And you just admitted that I do since you just severed from that argument. 4. I don't really need to concern myself with your subtext. Say what you mean, or you are still a moving target. C2 1. You explicitly argue that all parents are equal when you try to use them as a way to prove that education levels will remain the same in a Con world. 2/3. This'll be another voter. Standards just can't function without CE. Note on C3: He talks about diplomas becoming obsolete, and then doesn't give himself enough space to properly defend this incredible claim. He's asking you to vote Con based on the hope that this *might* happen, despite the fact that the need for formal education is on the rise for reasons that the education system has no control over (foreign labor market competition, etc.). Also, He can't provide jobs for people who won't graduate, and he can't tell you how long it would take for the entire employment system to readjust (assuming it even can). Assigning a time limit to this is beyond our realm of discourse."	PRO	397
397	S51e5652c-Ab763b5f4	Education nowadays should be mostly computerized	"My opponent gets into the attendance argument again. Since attendance doesn't have anything to do with actual education and simply accounts for who's there for the education, it's really not important. 2. Yes, you can encode information into short term memory but it's gone in literally around 30 seconds. kind of pointless. Next he states that the student could choose their method of learning. however, the resolution states that education should be mostly computerized. Meaning that only a marginal amount of learning would be done traditionally and the rest would be compulsory virtual learning. your argument approaches counterplan status which doesn't make a lot of sense for you to do as pro. 3. There's a difference between education and supplementing education. again, the resolution that you wrote asserts that education should be mostly computerized not that students should supplement education with learning apps. those are entirely different things. You seem to think they're the same. They are not. 4. this is an argument pertaining to your claims. One more time. you are the pro in a debate about whether or not education should be mostly computerized. Under the resolution, Virtual Learning would be the primary method of learning. thus when I argue that these online tools could be a supplement rather than the primary method I am directly arguing against the resolution that you, as pro, support. 5 he states that short term memory exists for around 15 to 30 seconds. yes. I know. 6. He states that the idea that everything will be encoded after the lecture is ludicrous. it's not. encoding is recognized by scientists as the initial learning of information (Melton, 1963) after that comes storage and retrieval. this is where supplementation comes in. 7. He states that my research on ""the google effect"" is simple correlation and not causation. However, if you refer to my research you will find that actual brain scans have determined that relying on the internet actually changes the way your brain works and conditions you to forget information. that's not simple correlation. My opponent states that his plan is more structured to students needs but then goes on to state that the online system requires more disciplined students in order to be effective not just any student. to to compel ALL students to take virtual classes would undermine the potential effectiveness of virtual learning. He also states that my last source supports his arguments. this is false. the last study I cited found that face-to-face students did significantly better on identical exams in a class taught by the same professor. My opponent goes on to talk about IT courses. I would agree that in a course about working with computers that students should learn by working with computers. But again, the resolution is about ALL education not just IT. He also talks about a hybrid capstone project. If that means a mixture between online learning and virtual learning then I would be fine with that as you have the potential to get the best of both worlds. To conclude, I believe that we should maintain the status quo. Currently, we can choose between online classes, traditional classes, or a mixture of the two. But to change the system so that most classes are virtual eliminates the possibility for a student that learns best in a traditional environment to learn in a way that best suits that student."	CON	398
398	Se6ffa8fb-Af59f659b	education should be for everyone and not based on social background	In the United States higher education is so expensive that only people with wealthy families or scholarships can afford going to school. If you do not have money to pay you have to borrow money from the government which will give you a huge loan which you have to pay back after university is done. It is also important to remember the cost outside the school with housing and books. This is unfair for the people who do not have the family money or the wealth that other people have. This will lead to poverty in generations because your parents will not earn enough money to go to school, therefore you will not get education and have to say yes to a lower paid job and cannot pay for your children education again. If education is free everyone can go to school if they want to and that can help form the next generation too. If will strengthen families and the society. In the countries in Europe where education is free social background does not matter. If you have money and want to spend them on education you can choose to study at private universities that cost a lot of money. We live in a society where everyone should have equal rights, therefore education should be free.	PRO	399
399	S73548fe7-A3603b554	colonization of the moon would fail and not be worth it to humanity	I believe that this He3 material would not be worth a colonization because if it simply slows cancer all your doing is buying them time for their unstoppable death so why would people buy it to make their lives a bit longer. Also China and India are no threat to the United States military don't get me wrong the Chinese are strong but the United States has better infantry and commanders Chinese infantry would not stand up to a Marine or Navy Seal or a West point graduate, and India has a no recorded historical of any invasion of another country proving American military might is most likely superior to the Indian forces. As history shows it dose not matter how great your technology and society is if the other guy kills you or at least beats you down. Second China is overflowing with people to the point were they are limiting how many kids they can have which is hurting their farming communities they are to busy juggling their own problems to be a super power. As for over population the UN believes that the earth could hold another three billion people before it peaks. I also don't believe the moon could be a stepping stone to mars because I don't believe that we would even be able to build a major city on the moon given the fact that asteroid's are constantly smacking into it and humanity has very little experience with space travel trying to build a nasa base on a unstable piece of land would be very risky.	PRO	400
400	S53a43ac3-A73f16a9c	Life is not worth living, when you fear it more than death.	In reality, the heart is stronger than the brain. Your heart determines how you think with your brain. I think you are feeling with your heart rather than your brain, so i am inclined to follow accordingly. I'm not necessarily seeing the logic here. what does this have to do with life not being worth living when you talk about disobedience and dangers, etc.?	CON	401
401	S5dd7d039-Ad2de660a	We should abolish the electoral college	However, in the swing states, the ones with the most electoral votes, voters know that it is their region that can change the course of the election. Therefore they are more likely to put more thought into voting, so the swing states end up being the ones where the voters are the most educated and will vote more wisely. The electoral college also restores some of the weight in the political balance that large states (by population) lose by virtue of the malapportionment of the Senate decreed in the Constitution. This may seem paradoxical, given that electoral votes are weighted in favor of less populous states. Wyoming, the least populous state, contains only about one-sixth of 1 percent of the U.S. population, but its three electors (of whom two are awarded only because Wyoming has two senators like every other state) give it slightly more than one-half of 1 percent of total electoral votes. But winner-take-all makes a slight increase in the popular vote have a much bigger electoral-vote payoff in a large state than in a small one. The popular vote was very close in Florida; nevertheless Obama, who won that vote, got 29 electoral votes. A victory by the same margin in Wyoming would net the winner only 3 electoral votes. So, other things being equal, a large state gets more attention from presidential candidates in a campaign than a small states does. And since presidents and senators are often presidential candidates, large states are likely to get additional consideration in appropriations and appointments from presidents and senators before as well as during campaigns, offsetting to some extent the effects of the unequal Senate on the political influence of less populous states.	CON	402
402	S5d3f8690-A60729dfa	Curent high school education should not be mandatory	"I will add a contention, which really isn't new, but wasn't made clear in C1 and C2, so it is contention 5 (also a rebuttal on CON's 1st and some of 2nd argument in round 1): C5) Not everyone benefits from education. Rebutting CON's first argument/Proof of C5) ""People who graduate from high school continue on to college to pursue an academic subject they enjoy."" This is not the point. People who perform well in academics will pursue a high school education, not because it is mandatory, but because it will benefit him or her. Even if it was possible that everyone benefits from high school then everyone would go to high school, even if it was not mandatory so there's no point of making it mandatory in the first place. It's like making a law that requires everyone to eat. We do not make rules or laws that require everyone to eat food, since eating food benefit. However, there are many reasons not to pursue to pursue a high school education. The person might has job opportunities (ex: A rising actor/actress or musician that does not have time to pursue a high school education), wants to focus on other job skills not offered in high school, wants a simpler life, or finds school to be difficult. CON makes the fallacy of composition: ""What is good for the part is good for the whole"". Rather high school does not benefit everyone, only those that wish to pursue a job that requires book smarts. ""Just because you think someone isn't going to make it far in life, we should simply abandon them?"" This seems to be an appeal to emotion. It is only failing in society because you think it is failing in society. Maybe someone would rather be a janitor working an easy job than work in a stressful job that he or she hates. And even if everyone had a doctorate degree, someone would still have to be a janitor. ""you will receive benefits, namely money, and everyone loves money"" Then how do you explain how a song that says ""f*** your money"" is highly liked song with over 4 million views?[2] Proof of C3) ""This is very interesting. Because, in that exact website, when you look under ""Causes for Failure,"" you will find the answer…….."" It's a big contrast that US high schools are far worse than US universities. One reason US universities are better is because they are optional. So what if middle schools are also weak as well? How does that invalidate my claim in anyway? This is just a red herring argument. Yes those that have a division in high school perform better, which is why I stated ""CURRENT high school should not be mandatory"". High schools in the United States do not have this division. The source stated that a major problem is that there are not enough science high school teachers that have a good background in science. An atmosphere without disruptive students who do not want to learn, paying these teachers more and a smaller supply of teachers will cause a larger percentile of high school teachers to have a better background in science. Proof of C4) ""There are many things in society that infringe upon the freedom of people. So should we eliminate all these things because of lack of freedom?"" Only because these things infringe upon other people's freedoms or harms others. Again education does neither. A society that infringes upon many freedoms for unnecessary reason is a tyrant. ""Yes, indeed, you should. Because there is a benefit in that action. There is not benefit in taking someone to a horrible Justin Bieber (shudder) concert and the second inappropriate action doesn't do anything at all."" However sex and music both have benefits. People are even willing to pay to see a Justin Bieber concert or pay for sex. [3][4]. However forcing someone to do either one of these actions would be a serious infringement on one's rights, just like making school mandatory. ""As far as I'm concerned, I do not see how going to school will harm anyone in the world"" Over Six hours of having your speaking privileges revoked, doing stuff when you would rather be doing other stuff might be considered harmful to some. Rebuttal of second argument of CON from round 1) ""How else do you make money? Without education, you will do bad things to get money. No one hires a middle schooler."" Only if you're basing things on age, not education, since there are child labor laws. However there though there are still jobs around. For example child actors, babysitters, caddies, lawn mowers, etc. As one's age increases one can get higher paying jobs (with added job experience to the resume). I did list the various jobs one can receive without a high school diploma (ex: construction worker, driver, hair stylist, entertainer, chef) which there will always be a demand for, so yes people are willing to hire those without a high school education. It is true that statistically (although not a deciding factor) those without an education are more likely to commit crimes. However even if everyone had a PhD, jobs that do not require an education (or a traditional education) will still exist and someone will have to take these job. There will always be jobs that pay better than others, creating income inequality, creating those with less envious of the rich style, creating one reason for crime. Also, based on your logic actually, why not require everyone to get a doctorate since those with doctorate degrees live a more ""successful"" life? Also there are other factors besides poverty that causes crime. Drug addiction, heredity, gender, peers, and parenting also play much larger roles. [5]The point is you can't pre-determine whether one will be a criminal or not just by their education level alone. ""Do you see American children running around with textbooks on their free time?......... children would not want to learn things themselves"" Do you see an industry that profits off of selling non-fiction books? Yes. How do ""math camps"" or ""science camps"" exist if only these schools can show people subjects he/she will enjoys? How do museums exist if nobody is willing to learn themselves? How many people exist that have ONLY learned information from school? Very few, if any. People are naturally curious and want to explore, so it would be natural for people to stumble across a field they enjoy. There are people who build things or computer whizzes who learn about computer for their own interest and go on to become future engineers or computer scientists. Even for the video game enthusiastic, maybe he/she might find it interesting to make a game like this, and thus the person created an interest in computer science. And as I stated before, most subjects in school are not geared towards helping one find a career, since most careers require one to know other information not taught in high school. Rebuttal of a new argument from CON) ""In America, people vote for who they want as the president. What if these people vote for the most ignorant candidate? And he eventually becomes our president?"" The less educated make up a smaller voting population. [6] Since money contributions are very important for elections, those with the most money have a larger impact on who wins an election. From Wikipedia: ""One of the most important aspects of the major American political campaign is the ability to raise large sums of money, especially early on in the race."" [7] It should not be difficult for someone to determine if someone is an ignorant president (especially since negative campaigning would make an ignorant president clearly visible). Even very educated people have different political views on abortion, military action, social security, drug criminalization or gun rights, so even the educated do not know the overall the best policy. The government could actually use education for propaganda purposes causing people to make ill-based choices. ""It's odd that you cite yourself and your mother."" Do you consider these personal experiences invalid sources?"	PRO	403
403	Sfd3161b0-Afdee0eed	"Animal tests proceed only when animal suffering is ""worth it"""	"The potential human benefits of a particular animal test are typically weighed against the harms that it will entail for animals. Scientists are not wanton in inflicting tests on animals. Rather, they are often bound to meet specific ethical requirements in the trade-off. The harm of the testing must be thought ""worth it"" for the benefits that it will produce. animal research is justified because it has reducing human suffering."	PRO	404
404	Sb1cf8ab-Abe598fdb	Direct popular vote should replace the electoral college in U.S. presidential elections.	"To clarify, if you read the Round format, it does say I can post my questions to the debate. I did not break any formatting rules. 1) Well, if you look at the value of each individual vote per election, you see massive distortion created in each state. Wyoming has 600,000 people and have 3 electoral votes (600,000 divided by 3= 200,000). California has 36 million people and only 55 electoral votes (36,000,000 divided by 55= 654,545) Thus you can see that 1 vote in Wyoming has the representational power of 3.54 votes in California, a distortion of 354%. 2) America is a Democratic Republic, defeating both of your definitions. [1] 2a) Not applicable since America is not solely a Republic, but a Democratic Republic. 3) Popular vote represents the national majority. The Electoral College is the state majority. 3a) Of course not. I don't see your logic there. The Senate serves the states. That is it's express purpose. The House of Representatives serves the people. 3b) States are already represented. We need to put the power in the hands of the people, not the states. 3c) Your flow of questions is becoming unclear, please define the ""sentimental attachment"". 4) If you read my 1st round case, you can clearly see the Subpoints explained, in detail, how the Electoral College fixes each and every distortion created by the Electoral College. 4a) Throughout the Rounds, I have repeatedly shown how the Direct Popular Vote fixes these distortions. Please actually read my cases. 4b) Once again, you have to read everything written. It is clear you did not read my case. 5) Your flow of questions is illogical. The Supreme Court's ability to judge Constitutionality is still applicable. Not sure where this question came from. I offer an observations: 1)- My opponent has obviously failed to read my case, or he wouldn't have asked many questions. Let's look at the entire round today: (Round formatting does say I can respond) My opponent's only contentions for the Electoral College to remain is that it was the Founding Fathers' intent and Small states are being protected. Refutation 1: Founding Fathers' Intent This argument requires a few answers: 1: The Founding Fathers were not always right. 2: The Founding Fathers could not have seen the distortions created by the Electoral College. 3: The original reasons for the Electoral College are no longer applicable. 4: There is absolutely no impact for this point. 5: We need to look at what is happening today, not to the happenings of the 1770s. Refutation 2: Small States This argument also requires a fwe answers: 1. Small states aren't protected by the Electoral College. (Montana, Alaska, N. Dakota, etc. etc.) 2. Under the Electoral College, even larger states are being ignored (Indiana, in my Duke Chronicle evidence) 3. Small states are disporportionately represented. 4. Representation should be porportional to population. 5. Small states willl still have a major voice in elections. For these reasons, I urge an affirmative ballot."	PRO	405
405	Se6ffa8fb-Ae70ade08	University is not important in the same way that a basic education is.	University is not important in the same way that a basic education is, and so it does not have to be equally open to everyone like normal schooling. It is hard to succeed with no education but very many people are successful in life without going to university. Also, there has to be a limit to how much education a state will provide, otherwise people could just keep on studying forever and never give anything back to society. Once the state has given everyone the same basic skills it is the responsibility of individuals to care for their education, just as they do when learning to drive or speak another language etc.	PRO	406
406	Saf208634-Ac466c579	This house would abolish the Electoral College	"I am rather disappointed that my opponent has dropped my arguments and instead opted to kritik the resolution (rule 3 under rules). The resolution states ""This house would amend the United States Constitution to abolish the Electoral College."" The only way that one can entirely abolish the EC is through Constitutional amendment. The NVPIC does not abolish the EC. Nevertheless, let's look at the NPVIC that con has proposed. Among the issues with this is the fact that it will only trigger once a majority (270) of the electoral college signs on to the agreement. The second issue that comes up is whether or not the NVPIC is even constitutional. It could violate the Interstate Clause in Article I, Section 10, Clause 3 which reads: ""No State shall, without the Consent of Congress, lay any Duty of Tonnage, keep Troops, or Ships of War in time of Peace, enter into any Agreement or Compact with another State, or with a foreign Power, or engage in War, unless actually invaded, or in such imminent Danger as will not admit of delay."" [1] In arguing against the NPVIC, Hans A. von Spakovsky from the Heritage Foundation writes [2]: ""Supporters of the NPV claim that because the Constitution gives state legislatures the power to determine how electors are chosen, the NPV is constitutional and requires no approval by Congress. Such claims, however, are specious. The NPV is unconstitutional because it would give a group of states with a majority of electoral votes “the power to overturn the explicit decision of the Framers against direct election. Since that power does not conform to the constitutional means of changing the original decisions of the framers, NPV could not be a legitimate innovation.” ... ""The very purpose of this clause was to prevent a handful of states from combining to overturn an essential part of the constitutional design. The plain text makes it clear that all such state compacts must be approved by Congress."" Con cites the Presidential Election Clause in Article 2, but the NVICP can also potentially violate that clause as well. Norman Williams writes (3): ""Although the text of the Clause seems to give states unlimited power to select the manner in which each state’s presidential electors are chosen, a close reading of U.S. history suggests the need and propriety of limiting the scope of state authority under the Clause. Not only did the framers of the Constitution expressly reject the idea of a direct, popular election for President, but also not one state either in the wake of ratification or at any time thereafter has ever sought to appoint its presidential electors on the basis of votes cast outside the state, as the National Popular Vote Compact requires."" There are far more problems with the NPVC than constitutional issues. For one, the NPVIC would change the way we vote and change Presidential elections far more drastically than by abolition of the EC. Tara Ross from the National Review writes (4): With NPV in place, California still would have appointed 55 Democratic electors for Obama in 2012, because he won the popular vote nationwide. But in 2004 the pact would have required California to appoint 55 Republican electors for George W. Bush, even though John Kerry won 54 percent of the California vote, because Bush won the nationwide popular vote. Does anyone really think that California would tamely submit and appoint 55 Republican electors in such a situation? Are we really to believe that it would give its electors to Sarah Palin or Ted Cruz? Doubtful. Litigation would surely follow to determine whether California’s legislature could appoint Democratic electors after all. (The Constitution says: “Each State shall appoint, in such Manner as the Legislature thereof may direct, a Number of Electors . . .”) The chaos that would follow is just one of the many unanticipated ramifications of NPV’s plan. Conclusion Con's attempt at krikiting the resolution leads to more trouble for con. As Williams concluded: ""The only sole constitutional way in abolishing the EC is for an amendment to the constitution, not an interstate compact by a handful of states."" Furthermore, the NPVIC would be far more chaotic than an amendment. It seems that an amendment to the constitution would be far more effective and far less disruptive than an interstate compact. I hereby urge a vote for pro! Sources 1. http://www.heritage.org... 2. Although the author here supports the EC, he argues quite convincingly about the unconstitutionality of the proposal. Retrieved 2 August 2016: http://www.heritage.org...; 3. http://bit.ly...; 4. http://www.nationalreview.com..."	PRO	407
407	Sc1b61f69-A36544fe8	Mixed-sex dormitories should be the only dormitory type permitted at higher education institutes	"Bennet91 makes a good point to start off my argument. "" Given that a portion of parents pay for their child's college education, and given that there are some parents that have ""traditional"" views against co-habitation (even if they are not in the same room). Some parents would not feel comfortable paying for their child's education if they believe their child is being put in a morally compromising situation. In short; some parents might not want to pay for a college education that seemingly promotes fornication. Pro even acknowledges that co-ed dorms give people the opportunity to find a mate, or more realistically a ""friend with benefits"" situation. "" In response to your pro's argument: ""20 % of the population is attracted to the same sex"" doesn't mean they are entirely gay. As pro's first reference says ""plenty of people still feel pressured to hide their sexual orientation"" it seems less likely that anything would happen between to same sex adults who had gay thoughts. While ""survey givers are getting better at tricking us into being honest"" doesn't it seem likely that some people don't actually want to be gay, and therefore wouldn't do anything gay? The same website also says ""The veiled method also increased the rates of anti-gay sentiment. Respondents were 67% more likely to express disapproval of an openly gay manager at work (p<0.01) and 71% more likely to say it is okay to discriminate against lesbian, gay, or bisexual individuals (p<0.01)."" Wouldn't gay people be less likely to be comfortable to ""be getting it on"" with a room full of straight people? Lastly pro says ""straight couples should be afforded the same rights"". The whole point of my side in this debate is that those ""rights"" aren't a good thing. Colleges should try to avoid them as much as possible, to a reasonable extent. At least gays being together won't cause college pregnancies. In response to pro's second argument: People can mingle and ""meet potential mates"" at a more respectable time, it does not have to be while people are in their dormitories. For example people have conversations in changing rooms,but pro does not argue that only changing rooms that allow both genders should remain. Classes and campus however can have anybody occupying them. In response to pro's third argument: As pro has said, this is less of an issue in most European countries. This would mean the most in a country such as Saudi Arabia. In my opinion however, this would be the worst place to have mixed sex dormitories. The women would risk physical and sexual abuse, in the confines of a building that is filled with men who are used to a culture where it is acceptable. It worked with racism because essentially race is just skin colour. Gender however is a lot more. While women deserve just as many rights as men, the average man is stronger than the average women, so they are less likely to be able to defend themselves. I stress the point that this is not true for all men and women, merely enough that leaving a sexist group to sort it out together would probably not be the best policy. If not convinced remember that sexist men do get married. They live with a woman whom they probably love, and still consider themselves superior."	CON	408
408	S1f23449c-Aa4443238	Improving Education Will do Nothing To Solve Economic Woes	My premise is simple: While there may be correlation to the wealth of a country and its level of education, there is no proof that the latter causes the former. 1. It is often argued that getting more people educated will create more jobs, but how? There is no job cheaper laborers overseas cannot acquire, so we cannot make a workforce so skilled that it can't be undersold. 2. We often complain about what a wreck our educational system is, yet regardless of where our position in relation to other nations is in terms of math and science scores, our economic booms and busts aren't influenced. Terrible scores in the 80's built to a massive economic boom in the early 2000's. Ostensibly great grades in the 60's saw economic downturn in the 80's. 3. The correlation between high level of education and a robust economy is only due to the fact that richer places in the world can afford high levels of education. The money is the real answer to the chicken-and-egg question, not academia.	PRO	409
409	S95535bbc-Abc78b481	The Electoral College is a logical system	The United States is both a Democracy, And a Republic, Sorry but you are wrong, Dead wrong. The Founders dis trusted the mob they dis trusted the idea of a direct democracy, Few nations used that, All if not all them almost all Democratic nations are limited by a constitution. The problem is, You lack a basic understanding of those terms. And besides who the hell cares what the Founders intended? They condoned slavery, They felt women were chattle and the indigenous population were subhuman, By todays standards they were criminals, We'd put them all in jail. They were not good people. For their day the y wee very progressive and visionary, By todays standards they are totally reactonary. The whole problem with our society is people that think like you. . We can't arrest yo and put you in re education camps. . As tempting as that is, Because as you say. . We do have a constituion and thats good. . I suppose. . I'd really like to put you in a fema camp almost as much as you'd like to put me in a nazi style death camp like you did other jews and you did to the japanese. . Lets remember your wonderful constituion is just a piece of paper, It didnt stop you from commited genocide against the whole native population enslaving raping Africans by the millions, How dare you how dare you. . Do you remember licoln suspending habeoes corpos? In the civil war, The intern ment of the japnese? Segregation? Lynching? The way my immigrant ancestors were treated like animals when they got off the boat? So much for you rotten republic and its silly constotution, Its a piace of paper you applied mostly to rich white men only. . times change. . Since FDR god bless him we refer to this as a democracy because the whole nature of our society changed with him and much for the better, The constituion is a living documtent we interpret it differently than the founders did. . You don't like thta too bad. . We are taking over. . THOSE THAT MAKE PEACEFUL REVOLUTION IMPOSSIBLE MAKE VIOLENT REVOLUTION INEVTIABLE JFK it doesnt matter what your white ancestors intedned they are long dead, It doesnt matter what you want. . Your not in charge we are, The will of the masses is all that matters. . One person one vote. . Or else	CON	410
410	S738233f8-A13fe219d	Should All students after 2035 be required go to college by the law	before we argue that college should be must be mandatory we need to enforce completing high school, children drop out of school legally at sixteen, and the drop out rate is nearly 40-48% in some urban areas so we first need to address the issue of high drop out rates, before we can force people to go college.	CON	411
411	Sccfc1c03-A5aad4e99	Localize Education- get rid of the Department of Education and Common Core	In the examples about snow plows, it is representing the case where the federal government would have to plow ALL the roads. DC workers just don't care about the quality of their work unless it is specialized or if they have an attachment to the place they are working at. Just like the federal government controls ALL the education right now, they don't know what each state Is in need of. The National Weather Service does not affect the quality of the work being done, they only direct workers to their positions. Proving Cons NWS statement pointless. Money spent by the federal government for plowing roads also has nothing to do with the quality of the roads. THE NUMBER ONE REASON TO CUT FEDERAL DEPARTMENTS: Federal departments do give people benifits, but for a hell of a price. If Education is localized that means people are getting better benifits for a cheaper price. It is already shown that the quality increases In local areas, and the people of different states have more of a say in voting for education, allowing them to keep all of the benifits they want. It also gets ride of many federal employees who eat up OUR money. By the Way Con: math is by far my favorite subject, I am in trigonometry as a sophomore. That was only an example, my core beliefs are stated above. Do not put words in my mouth. Common Core was not simply a suggestion, it is required for states unless they want to be fined. The 50 state experiment that I outlined early demonstrates that state being specialized can learn from each other to create an evolving country.	PRO	412
412	S608cdede-A784d378b	Pressing a button that kills a random person in the world for a million dollars is worth it	I am assuming this is a joke debate? So a thing that can kill a random person for a million dollars is not worth it Why? One, if you would save lives with the money, you wouldn't be immoral enough to kill someone. Two, what happened if you killed yourself? Three, what happened if you killed one of your parents (and one was already dead) Four, what happened if you killed someone very important in the world, like MLK JR. and then you screwed over a lot of people	CON	413
413	Sb295af9a-A8f9e209	The Electoral College Should Be Abandoned	"While I appreciate my opponent's research on the population of each state, my position still stands. I can only conclude that those who disagree with the Electoral College do so because they simply just don't understand it. Almost like it's too complicated or something, and that people would prefer the nationwide popular vote simply because more people will ""get it."" >>>>>>>>>>> To in an effort to simplify things here is an example of a Divided Election (EC) vs. a Direct Election (Nationwide Vote) I found on the internet: Source: http://www.smm.org... Let's assume the United States was divided into three States: North, Central and South. Each state has one million voters. The nation has two major political parties: the Democrats and the Republicans. How much of a voice do you have in a nation-wide election? It depends on whether the election is direct or divided. In a direct election, it's easy to calculate the power of your voice. You have one vote. There are three million total voters. Thus, your influence is 1 in 3,000,000. In a divided election, it's a little bit trickier. Your vote helps your candidate carry your state. But in order for a candidate to win, they need to carry two of the three States. You need another state to join you. Let's assume you support the Democratic candidate. Your influence in your home state is 1 in 1,000,000—there are 1,000,000 voters, and you are one of them. If the Democratic candidate carries a second state, your influence there is 0 in 1,000,000—that state also has 1 million voters, but you aren't one of them. So, your influence in the two States the Democrat needs to win is 1 in 2,000,000. In other words, your vote is 50% more powerful in the divided election than in a direct election. Each vote cast in this system has the same power as 1.5 votes in the direct system. The same holds true for every voter in the country. The divided system has made the entire citizenry 1.5 times more powerful. How can it be that everyone gets stronger and no one gets weaker? It has to do with the minimum number of votes a candidate needs to win. • In a direct election, the candidate need one more than half of the total votes cast—in this case, that's 1,500,001. • In a divided election, they need one more than half of the votes in only part of the nation. In our example, that's 500,001 in each of two States, or 1,000,002 total—a smaller number. In each case, you as a citizen get one vote. Your vote moves your candidate one step closer to victory. But in a divided election that journey, though more complicated, ultimately takes a lot fewer steps. Fewer votes are needed to win, so each vote takes on more importance. OPPONENT: Considering that they (Wyoming citizens), don't have a voice now and are not represented what-so-ever I'd argue that their citizens under a nationwide popular vote would have just as much say as every other citizen. That's the Whole Point! The goal of the EC is to give the individual votes in Wyoming MORE power and MORE say than other citizens to help compensate for their smaller numbers. If you go to a nationwide popular vote you take that away and make their votes equivalent to the rest of the country. >>>>>>>>>>> OPPONENT: ""One should not be given 3x the vote simply because they were born in a different part of the country. We're basically saying that one persons say in how this country is run is less than others."" No one is saying that people in the smaller States have more say. The amount of say they have is being elevated up to the amount of say that people in larger States have. >>>>>>>>>>> OPPONENT: "" Abolishing the amendment wouldn't happen because the constitution requires a 3/4 vote to change and the smaller States wouldn't want to change it. 1. First I'd argue that they would want to change it because it's actually advantageous to them. 2. But more importantly this point just doesn't matter. The resolution asks whether we SHOULD change it. Not whether we COULD change it. Thus my only burden is to say that we should, whether we could has nothing to do with this topic."" This is irrelevant and my opponent completely missed the point. Why after 233 years has it not been changed if it's so unfair? The reason it hasn't been changed is because of the extra power it gives to the smaller States and they'll never agree to change it. I encourage my opponent to write letters to the Wyoming State Legislature asking for abandonment of the EC and let me know what response he gets. >>>>>>>>>>> OPPONENT: "" Minorities are called minorities because they don't have a large population. This is problematic in the Electoral College because the lesser votes of a state simply go away and the entire state's electoral vote goes to whoever won the popular vote in that state."" This is a crucial phalacy regarding the EC. A vote for the losing candidate is not a wasted vote. It's simply a vote for the losing candidate. OPPONENT: ""Minorities within States have extremely small chances of winning actual electoral votes by themselves and thereby their votes end up counting for nothing."" So you're in favor of stacking the minority's interests up against the entire nation when you acknowledge they're already underrepresented in their own state? >>>>>>>>>>> In regard to Faithless Electors the Supreme Court has already addressed this issue in Ray v. Blair (1952) where the court ruled in favor of States rights to punish faithless electors. There are laws in 24 States that punish faithless electors, and in States where these laws do not exist it's up to the people of those States to impose them. Furthermore, Faithless Electors have not changed the outcome of any presidential election to date. For example, in 2000 elector Barbara Lett Simmons of Washington, D.C. chose not to vote, rather than voting for Al Gore as she had pledged to do. That elector's abstention did not change who won that year's presidential election, as George W. Bush received a majority (271) of the electoral votes. Regardless, it is up to each States to handle faithless electors in whatever manner they see fit as the Electoral Votes belong to the States. >>>>>>>>>>> SUMMARY We seem to forget the structure of our own government. We've fallen into the idea that the Federal Government is the only government in the land and that people in California and people in Nebraska don't have individual governments of their own. We're forgetting about the States. Our country is a Federal Republic of independent governments united under one banner. Each state is free to govern itself and the role of the federal government is to preserve the union. Citizens fall under the category of their own States. This is why we have laws regarding state residency and other laws that vary from state to state. Each state is its' own independent government and the people directly elect the representatives for their States. The States then choose the president. Furthermore, the notion of ""majority rules"" isn't always the best approach in making decisions. The majority is not always right. Granting decision power to the minority some of the time shows our commitment to all people. Which is, after all, what we're supposed to be about."	CON	414
414	S5d3f8690-A3f3d203f	Curent high school education should not be mandatory	In this debate I am neither trying to prove that high school education is unnecessary nor that high school education should not be free. I am also referring to American high school education (only because I know very little about foreign education) My resolution is that the current high school education should not be mandatory. While technically, high school education is not mandatory, one is required to stay in school until 16, the age most people are in high school. My contentions are the following. C1: It will free up economic resources. The core requirements taught in high school: literature, science, higher mathematics (ex: Algebra), and history are rarely necessary, especially for blue collar jobs and lower skilled jobs (ex: cashier). Those that need it are usually white collar workers. Therefore, society is creating economic waste by providing a service that has little benefit to the majority of people. If high school education was not mandatory, less people would enter high school, therefore lowering expenses on education, and tax money could be used for other purposes (ex: financial aid for higher education, improving infrastructure, and surplus spending to pay off the debt) or tax breaks. C2: Most necessary information is taught through K-8. Skills such as reading, writing, basic math (arithmetic, basic probability, pre-algebra), basic science, American history and government are already taught. Students are given 8 or more years (depending if one goes to kindergarten or stays back) to learn these skills that are necessary in the United States. C3: It will improve high school education Since those that do not want a high school education will not be required to attend high school, those that want to learn will not have to deal with students who disrupt classes, or cause the lower standard of education since these students that do not care about high school education do not study, pay attention, and/or skips school. For example countries like China have better high schools since high school is not required. Also higher education, which is not mandatory, in the United States is considered vastly superior to high school education. C4: Mandatory high school education directly infringes on the freedom of others You are requiring people to spend at least six hours a day a facility. Not only that but one's freedom's are infringed. Prison, military, and school are the only three places where one's freedom of speech is severely hindered. Also one is required to do activities one does not want to do (ex: public speaking, tests or doing projects). Also one can be punished (receive detention) for almost any reason a teacher wishes.	PRO	415
415	Saf13dc4a-A76cfa5d3	That a human life is intrinsically worth more than the life of an animal	You have guessed right that I lost interest in this debate. My opponent did not post a single, distinct argument how animals are equal to humans in Round 1. All he did was refute my arguments starting from Round 2. 1) He missed out the critical fact about the long life of an average human. With long life and age of an average human, there comes the experiences and with the experience, there comes knowledge. Now why is he going to compare a human to a koi fish and a Galapagos tortoise? Humans experience a lot of things on the long run before they die. The koi fish or the Galapagos tortoise do not. 2) He missed out the fact about the appalling things humans do. Yes, I acknowledge humans are vicious creatures too. However, the point is that a human can eliminate as many animals if they could. 3) Intrinsically worth means just naturally worth and naturally superior. Humans have superior emotions since they can shed tear, feel betrayal, etc. My opponent said that we may not fully understand animal emotions. Then how is he and the experts sure that Harambe was trying to protect the three year old child? 4) I don't see how a harmonious society makes an animal equal to humans. Humans created civilizations that expanded and shaped the world like Ancient Egypt, Ancient Greece, etc. which created a very organized system (for example, modern democracy). 5) Humans know what is good or bad. If we are the only animals that know what is good or bad, doesn't that make us superior because we have our own knowledge? Con did not provide a single argument how animals are equal to humans. All he did was try to refute my points. Please vote for Pro. Thanks Con for letting me debate and for good conduct also.	PRO	416
416	Saf13dc4a-Ae90ddf7e	That a human life is intrinsically worth more than the life of an animal	I accept the debate. Now, I am an animal lover but I believe that a human life is worth more than the life of an animal. Though sad as it is and that the parents of the child are at fault, the three-year old child's life is worth more than Harambe's life. First, Harambe was a 17 year old gorilla (1) and gorillas, on average, live up to 40-45 years of age though they start showing signs of old aging at 35 years of age (2). The American male child could live up to 76 years of age, according to a 2013-2014 measurement (3). This shows that the child could live 30 years longer than Harambe and with an average of 73 years left, the child can accomplish a lot of stuff! Harambe was 17 and he had an average of 23-28 years left to live. You might say that gorillas are endangered so shooting it was not the best solution. Either way, Harambe was going to die childless since male gorillas are sexually dominant before the age of fifteen to twenty years old (4). As for the child, he can be fertile at his early teens and still remain fertile until he dies. Humans accomplish more than animals and have the brains needed to keep the world stable. If you say the lives of animals are equal to humans, then why can't any wild animal that are mostly left alone by humans perform anything to save the world? Wild animals have their own space and often, humans do not bother them but have they done anything to benefit the world? In fact, I want to ask you. How will it benefit the world if the three-year old child was left to die at the hands of Harambe? SOURCES: (1) https://en.wikipedia.org... (2) http://www.berggorilla.org... (3) http://www.worldlifeexpectancy.com... (4) https://seaworld.org...	PRO	417
417	S23e4ddc5-A68554bc3	The U.S. Federal Government Should Abolish the Department of Education	"Those were some great arguments! I'm debating this in real life, and I'm happy to admit that some of these I have not faced yet! So thank you for providing an intellectual challenge! So now, I will be addressing my opponent's three points. Point 1. Abolishing the Department of Education will not solve the problem. Point 2. 1.4 Trillion dollars will not be wasted Point 3. Reform is an option Now, let's move to the first point. My opponent says that my case is illogical because ""It is not practical to fix this problem..."" (That the Department of Education is Irresponsible) ""...By abolishing the Department of Education."" I would like to say that what my opponent is saying is illogical. My harm was that the Department of Education is Irresponsible. I did not explicitly mention this, but you can see through my evidence that the impact of this harm is that schools are not getting to choose their curriculum and it is harming students. So if the Department of Education is causing schools to not be able to help their students in the best way possible, then how would getting rid of the Department not fix the problem? For example, if your computer has adware that is causing ads to pop up all over your computer, the best way to get rid of the ads all over your computer is to get rid of the adware! So it is simply not true that is harder to solve the harms of a system without the system. Without the system, there are no harms! If the adware has a harmful effect on your computer getting rid of it will end the harmful effects. You can't argue with that. I'd also like to take some space to address my opponent's last paragraph, where he states that the schools would be in disorder because the order they are in does not exist anymore. I would like my opponent to read this mandate from my plan: Over a period of one year we will slowly but effectively dissolve all administrative functions and dismiss all employees, which would ultimately come to the conclusion of having no more Department of Education. This mandate was put in to ensure that schools would have ample time to transition. Now, let's move onto his 2nd argument. That 1.4 trillion dollars have not been wasted. I would like to read to you the Department of Education's mission statement: Our mission is to promote student achievement and preparation for global competitiveness by fostering educational excellence and ensuring equal access. Now I have shown you through evidence, that the Department of Education has not furthered student achievement and has not prepared students to compete in the global economy. In fact, we have seen little to no improvement in student achievement since the Department of Education was formed. So since the Department of Education has not gotten any closer to it's goal and done absolutely nothing that has furthered student achievement, then the money it has spent has been wasted. Now to my opponent's last argument. We should add regulations and reforms to the Department of Education in order to reform it. Many politicians have tried to reform the Department of Education with no success. So the past has proven that reforms do not work. Also, simply ""reforming"" the Department of Education would not solve one of the glaring issues my opponent forgot to mention. The fact that the Department of Education is glaringly unconstitutional. My opponent has neglected to mention this at all. And the only way to ensure that our Constitution is kept valued is to abolish the Department of Education. In review, abolishing the Department of Education shall ensure that the harms caused by it's existence shall disappear. Since the Department of Education has done nothing that has visibly impacted student success, it has failed it's mission statement, and we have spent 1.4 trillion dollars with no visible benefits. And lastly, reforming the Department of Education still does not solve for it's inherent unconstitutionality. It is for all these reasons that I stand firmly resolved that the Department of Education should be abolished."	PRO	418
418	S863dddcf-A22133942	Formal education (K-12) ought to be compulsory in the United States	"===PRO CASE=== 1A Con: Living wage means nothing in the big picture here. We're debating on whether or not formal education should be compulsory. Education is still provided even if it's not compulsory and therefore *the majority of people* people *can* still receive the necessity you assert as education and make a living. Despite what pro leads you to believe, I've already posted evidence that a college degree has seriously nothing to do with success. Refer to my earlier arguments, please. The extension of me agreeing with your specialization arguments doesn't mean anything because I've separated my stance from the pro viewpoint. 1B Con: Pro claims that they proved education must be compulsory in their 1A. To summarize, the pro 1A argument consists of how specialization has reigned supreme in the US and the importance of a high school diploma. I confirm the pro 1A has nothing to do with affirming the resolution. Allow me to give you an analogy. Education is a need. Food is a need. Both are needs. However, we don't see a law that says it's illegal not to eat because it's a person's right to decide that; just like it's a person's right to decide whether or not they wish to follow through with formal education. My analogy debunks the whole pro cause and arguments attached. Non-compulsory education still educates and will still benefit the state; giving up rights is not necessary on con as it is on pro. Also, I could care less about what the laws say. This debate is about ""ought to,"" not ""is."" 1C Con: Underserved students, as you defined them, DO have a damaged education already; especially the ones that are minorities, homeless, or living in poverty. Refer to source in previous argument. Substance dependent youth may deserve a shot at education but that doesn't change the fault of getting addicted to an illegal substance. It is not the state's job to bail out these kids who have made serious mistakes. Then, my opponent stresses the importance of equal rights. Pro is not arguing equal rights one bit and it can be easily proven. If education was not compulsory yet still provided to all citizens and still considered a ""need,"" then I would contend that education is still a right. Pro is arguing equal opportunities which would still exist without compulsory education (more later about that in the paragraph+). Furthermore, the deterrent I was referring to was how truancy laws are not a deterrent to keep kids from dropping out or skipping. Obviously, kids still drop out and skip. Pro is now misplacing priorities of the state. Kids that are homeless, from a broken home, in poverty, etc. - I can sympathize with them. They deserve a shot at education like everyone else does. However, it is not the school's job to provide them with a hot meal. My opponent then talks about tax dollars and how they provide for needy children. +Again, tax dollars would still exist and can still go these people without compulsory education. It's called welfare and not to mention numerous soup kitchens and shelters already exist. By making education non-compulsory, you are not depriving anyone of rights. 2A Con: Argument from ignorance - just because I can't prove it's 100% useless doesn't make it useful. You've also only given us a small portion of education, conveniently leaving out all of the mostly useless things like geometry, trigonometry, persuasive essays, etc. I would like to avoid debating the use of these subjects from now on, it's really not inline with the resolve. 2B Con: Actually, I have not lost my ""strand of argumentation"" whatsoever and pro totally misunderstood my argument. I argued that students could still get social skills outside of CE because it's up to the PARENTS, not to the STATE to teach social skills. Affirming is not maximizing access to anything; the neg side still ensures that most of the US *can* get an education. People who can't get an education are present even in CE, rendering this pro argument invalid. The ""will or will not"" dilemma is present in the compulsory side as well so it's irrelevant to the negation of the resolve. According to pro, the underserved students can't get an education when we negate the resolution. This is untrue/not valid for two reasons. 1, there are people in the US now that don't get educations. 2, underserved students can still go to school to get education and could technically still receive benefits from the tax payers even. However, pro also argues that the students won't have the drive to do as such. Again, this is a parenting issue, not a state issue. I have now made it clear that pro is not maximizing access to anything. ===CON CASE=== C1 1. I never admitted it to be untrue but based on observation, just like you observe how some kids can only get a hot meal at school. You don't see me flagging that as unsubstantial proof when I've never known anyone that only gets a hot meal at school. However, it would be a self-evident fact to me because it is possible. It is also possible that the information being taught to students could be useless. What use does learning ""To Kill a Mockingbird"" serve? We must reach a middle ground here: some information is useful, some is useless. Also, my argument has NO OBLIGATION AT ALL to prove that CE is a flawed system; it just needs to show that education ought not to be compulsory. Pro accuses me of a dodging a bullet but I've already dismantled the pro case and the pro rebuttals while proving the negation of the resolve to be more justified morally and logically. C2 1. Pro seems to be living in a fantasy world where all schools, teachers, and students are equal. Skip 2. 3. Explain. 4. Translation: Attendance laws have no bearing on the necessity of education meaning that E doesn't have to be C for the state to provide the need. C3 1. Logic dictates that if E is a necessity as pro asserts, they would seek it out like food if they were hungry. Pro tries to say I concede but I don't. If E is made non-C, the importance of a diploma may gradually drop. This is a rational hypothesis because the only reason education is so important now is because it's a must-go. It's preposterous to say that without any education everyone will be dumb. 2. Institutional discrimination? Pro misunderstands. I am referring to people that may not attend E just because it isn't C anymore. This isn't a resources thing and even if it was, I covered that. Conclusion: Yet again I've dismantled pro's case. I will admit my case is weaker (I'm NOT conceding, just being honest) but that means nothing when the pro case has been defeated exhaustively twice. I have proved it is more sensible to negate the resolution and strongly urge a con vote."	CON	419
419	S32cc52fb-A3c4fdc0f	Health care/education is NOT a right	"Since I had an opponent drop out I guess I need to edit this. I argue that heath care/education is not a right. In order for something to be a right, everyone must be able to exercise the ""right"" at the exact same time. Rules: First round you must accept AND add in your argument OR rebuttal. That is it! I made my argument! Make yours!"	PRO	420
420	Se6ffa8fb-Ab3735e7f	University is not important in the same way that a basic education is.	University might not be as essential as say learning to write – but it is increasingly important in the modern world. Jobs in developed nations are becoming much more specialised and service based. You cannot (for example) just turn up at a computer software company and ‘learn the trade’ like you could at a coal mine in years past. Skills needed today are more complex and depend on scientific and mathematical knowledge, and/or an ability to think about abstract concepts. Such understanding can only be taught in higher education institutions. The point of education is to allow opportunity. As opportunities change, so must our education systems.	CON	421
421	S1f23449c-A1146c316	Improving Education Will do Nothing To Solve Economic Woes	"I don't really WANT to disagree with your first point in my heart. I think we have long surpassed the need for everyone to be gainfully employed due to the progress reached through our innovation and ingenuity. But that is not the world or society we live in. So long as we still exist in a country that looks down on anyone not employed, lack of employment will continue to be a problem, one that education will, as you have perfectly illustrated, only exacerbate. As the quality of workers continues to rise and mechanization will replace more and more bodies in jobs, economies will falter. To the second point, yes, I am exactly positing that there is no correlation between our booms and busts and the level of education before or after they occur. As a point of interest, every country I've ever spent time in laments and whines that that THEIR students are falling behind. Even when Japan was sitting on the ostensible top of the education game a few years back, their headlines were filled with endless concern of their failing students and lowering test scores versus the rest of the world. To me this illustrates that A: Our perception of education is bad, and B: even when education is good, the outcomes of an economy seem far more at the mercy of other economic forces. The impact education may have has yet to be convincingly measured. As to your latter point, I don't think studying others to learn how to meaningfully trade with them is a matter of ""education"" so much as something we do with instinct or intuition. I'm not saying that education hurts these skills, but it is by no means the source of them."	PRO	422
422	S99e6abf2-Ad104c6d3	What to study in college & why? [Career Challenge]	"Greetings to my opponent, I shall be taking this debate and will be following the guidelines my opponent has set forth. However, I want to be clear on several key issues: Con has stated that she will be giving ideas on ""career paths"" and listing ""study fields"". However, she has titled the resolution ""What to study in college & why?"". I submit that career paths and study fields need not take place in what is defined as a ""college"". Sometimes, they take place in other locations such as training facilities, self-study, military academies, culinary schools, etc. A lot of careers also emphasize acts instead of studying, such as volunteer services and overseas missions. I want to ask Con to redefine the resolution simply to ""What preparation should people make during the years after high school for their future career?"" I also ask Con to agree that we may argue freely, that the basis for my role as ""devil's advocate"" be based on free values and morals held by myself or others and not dictated by that of any set rubric, that aside from what was stated in her round 1, no other restrictions are expected or enforced, and that the persuasiveness of our arguments be judged by the voters and not by any future rules or regulations Con may want to impose later on. If Con agrees to all of these, then we can proceed, otherwise, we can take another round to negotiate both in the comments and if need be, in the debate."	PRO	423
423	Sc2f75af9-Aaed3ba32	The Electoral College should be abolished in favor of the popular vote/run-off system	"Reasons the Electoral College should be abolished: -Creates swing states (a few states decide election for entire country) -Creates lock states (millions of votes have no chance of counting) ^Disenfranchises voters^ -Could create voter chaos (could be a tie of Electoral votes, in which case the House of Representatives elects the president) -Over-represents smaller states (why doesn't (shouldn't) one vote count as one vote?!) -Miserable distribution of votes (winner-take-all format) means that a 51% victory is exactly the same as a 100% victory, which can be millions of votes. -Eliminates the possibility of anyone other than one of the ""main"" two candidates could win -We vote for every elected office as a constituant of the area over which they govern. Why is the president any different? -If the electoral college is superior to the popular vote, why don't we use it to elect senators (giving Electoral votes to counties) as well? -The biggest and most critical issue: popular vote > Electoral College because one guarantees that every single vote will be counted EQUALLY, while the other not only doesn't count them equally, it doesn't guarantee that it will be counted at all."	PRO	424
424	S19b8d77c-A6988bffe	It is already taught in most religious education lessons	The purpose of a religious education lesson is too study beliefs, doctrines, rituals, customs, rites and personal roles of each religion in turn. During a religious education lesson, the teaching is not presented as fact, but discussed and mulled over as beliefs shared by millions of individuals. Creationism is already taught in religious education lessons and has not, up till now, created a problem. It seems unnecessary and inconvenient for teachers and students alike. What would be the need of removing it from the curriculum of religious education and transferring it too science?	PRO	425
425	S32cc52fb-Ac7cefff1	Health care/education is NOT a right	"I must reject Cons argument that the constitution or law for that matter gives us any rights at all. The constitution or any ""legal"" document has no authority or obligation at all, unless between man and man. There is not enough space to go into how the constitution is a completely irrelevant document in todays day and age of law and reason, so I will refer you to the book from Lysander Spooner, ""No Treason, The Constitution Of No Authority"". In there is lays out how anything, including ""rights"", fall flat when it comes to the constitution. The same rational logic and understanding of law and reason you will find in that book, can be applied to other documents including the bill of rights. I will give a quote from the first page of the book to show how the lawyer Lysander Spooner logically breaks apart this ""binding"" contract. ""They had no NATURAL power or right to make it obligatory upon their children. It is not only plainly impossible, in the NATURE of things, that they could bind their posterity, but they did not even attempt to bind them. That is to say, the instrument (constitution) does not purport to be an agreement between any body but ""the people"" THEN existing; nor does it, either expressly or impliedly, assert any right, power, or disposition, on their part, to bind any body but themselves."". The reason I am even telling the audience this is because Con, (as well as many others), is under the illusion that a government has authority to do anything at all, let alone ""create rights"". The only way a government does anything is by force. So just because a group of individuals write down something on parchment and claim it to be a right or for that matter a law is absolutely mad! The only thing they can do IS recognize that a right is there. As it has been before it was recognized. Con says rights are NOT like scientific law. When in fact they are. One has the freedom (right), by his/her own will, to use vocal cords to create speech. This has nothing to do with a government. It is the same as a dog being capable of barking, walking (freedom to travel), etc etc. So SCIENTIFICALLY because a human has the ability to speak, grow food, live, breathe, he/she has these rights (worldwide). That is why I made the claim ""they just are"", even though it sounded bad, can we see how the fact that we can make noise with our throats, use a tool to break ground and plant seeds, etc, these ""rights"" don't come from any government, they simply just are due to our natural ability to do things. When a government says you have a ""right"", lets not be so simple minded, as they are really saying ""you have the privilege"". Freedom of the press.. This summer alone, the media has been barred from the Jade Helm operations, as well as the Bohemian grove. So that, in all reality, is a privilege. One government says we all can go to school. Its a right!! However in some countries in the middle east, women are barred from getting an education. Again, another privilege. So is it logical to say, ""American humans have rights, but Iraqi women don't because their government said so.""? Absolutely not! This is such an irrational thought process I was laughing while writing it. Things like education and health care are not a right (regardless of what a group of individuals write on a parchment and ""declare"" it to be with their ""mighty"" authority), simply because in order for something to be a right, everyone must be able to do it (""HUMAN"" not just American) at the same time (speak, breathe sleep) This is why I don't need to address all of the so-called ""rights"" my opponent laid out. If one group of people say (U.N.) ""we think these are rights all humans have"", and another group of individuals (ex: a group that believes in sharia LAW) says ""No way women cant vote, the cant have education."", Which arbitrary group of laws created by man should we adhere to? This is the logical conclusion. Man cannot make rights. Man can make privileges that he can take away or not whenever he pleases as he will use force to do it (this, using logic and reason, does not make him legitimate). Man CAN recognize a right that has been here. It is the same as gravity. Man did not create gravity. Man recognized gravity, then called it gravity, the word ""gravity"" being a concept. My opponent has been a challenge! I hope to keep in touch with him! Thank you everyone!"	PRO	426
426	Saf13dc4a-A25a49b30	That a human life is intrinsically worth more than the life of an animal	The topic pretty much sums it up. If you accept this debate, you are saying that you can justify making the claim that as a general principle, a human life is worth more than an animal (to avoid getting into ridiculous discussions, we'll say any mammal, then we won't be arguing about amoebas). My job is to show that such a claim can't be justified. I will open with the example of the killing of a gorilla named Harambe when a three year old child climbed into the gorilla enclosure at Cincinatti zoo. By far the majority of people claim Harambe's killing was justified, as a human life was in danger. Yet, when asked to say why, I have never heard anyone provide a logical reason why this should be the case. Thus, I conclude the assertion is false.	CON	427
427	S1bd03141-Aec04802f	Rescuing our Failing Education System	It has become abundantly clear that the United States educational system has failed to provide our nation with smart, educated, and knowledgeable young adults that can produce effective ideas and instruments to better our government, our economy, and our well-being. My argument is to call for a total reform of the educational system by erasing the current system and replacing it with one that closely resembles the German education system. I think it would be a more effective approach in producing great thinkers, rightly distribute jobs based on education and experience rather than solely relying on recommendations and relationship ties. It would remove the restrictions of jobs for the under-educated, leave higher-leveled jobs for those who achieved their station through hard work and determination rather than race, money, or sex, and it would allow for more creative flow between people of equal intelligence to better the economy.	PRO	428
428	S23e4ddc5-Ac0f3128e	The U.S. Federal Government Should Abolish the Department of Education	Thank you for reading thus far, and thank you to my opponent for providing a civil and reasonable debate. I would like to point out that my opponent has addressed me as a man. I'm actually a woman. So there just needs to be some pronouns changed in the next round and everything will be alright. I will now go down the list in supporting my rebuttals. To start off, there's the issue of responsibility. The actual argument was that schools didn't have a choice, however, my opponent never said how this was a bad thing. There are a lot of schools that would make some extremely poor choices concerning curriculum if the federal government allowed them to. The Department of Education requiring schools to act in accordance with a national standard is not a bad thing, and I can just say that without evidence, because my opponent has not provided any evidence otherwise. We are both making assertions, and as long as he has the burden of proof, I have no obligation to back up a statement that counters a statement he didn't back up. My second point is regarding the 1.4 million dollars. My opponent has essentially provided a logical syllogism as follows: P1: The Department of Education has spent 1.4 million dollars to attempt to reach its goal. P2: The Department of Education has not reached its goal. C: The Department of Education has wasted 1.4 million dollars. One can accept point one and point two without accepting the conclusion. My opponent has not provided a spending plan of any sort, nor have any alternative causes been considered. I have a couple subpoints in this point of rebuttal to go over. The first is that not all 1.4 million dollars have been wasted by necessity. While the Department of Education may not have had as great of an affect as it would've liked, that does not mean that every dollar spent was ineffective. In fact, it could've wasted 5,000 dollars out of the whole program. That would still be a logical conclusion in the syllogism adding a point 3 stating that all but 5,000 dollars went to waste in the program. Therfore, the harm is not significant. I would also like to point out that my opponent has not addressed the fact that the states will also need some sort of similar funding overall, thus the drain of 1.4 million dollars would still be in effect. The second point is that the failure to meet a standard is not the department's fault by necessecity. Keep in mind that the department does not actually teach children. The teachers at schools teach children. If the children aren't learning, then perhaps a majority of teachers aren't doing an ample job. It is also possible that a majority of students are lazy and prefer to party instead of do their homework. There are two other very plausible factors that count into the failure of the Department of Education to meet a standard that do not have to do with the department. Onto the third point. My opponent essentially says that reform won't work because it hasn't in the past. This isn't a strong argument at all. There are plenty of things that people tried to do in the past, and the goal was completed later because someone learned from the mistakes of the past. Past failures do not bar future success. If anything, they ought to aid it. Regarding the Constitutionality, I will admit that I forgot to bring that up. I feel the solution, however, is very simple. Under my side of the resolution it is possible to make an amendment to change the way the nation works. Now, it may be said that amendments really shouldn't be made just to change the Constitution to be how the current politicians want it to be. However, the part of the constitution that my opponent is talking about is an amendment, and it was made because the politicians at the time wanted that to be the way the Constitution was. However, America was very different back then, and our Founding Fathers weren't perfect by any means. Thank you for reading, and I wish my opponent a good final round.	CON	429
429	Sae9368dd-A87ce6287	Education should be Mandated in the United States of America	"Thank you for your admirable conduct. I believe that this is a productive discourse. Now to the arguments. I will begin with rebuttals The parents are not the ones to fear (with exceptions). Of course, As with any given group of people, There are good and bad parents. However, As the family is the second base unit of our society, I would advocate that we should error on the side of trusting the parents to know what is best for their children infinitely better than a faceless bureaucrat. The reason for this is simple. That parents are acutely aware of what circumstances that they are under, What their child's personality and psychology is, What the worth of their child is, As well as a vast plethora of other factors that would be completely unknown to a person who's job it is to justify their idea of good and integrate it into the lives of thousands of children who are faceless and, For all purposes, Meaningless to them. As for bad parents, I will concede that there is a small group of parents who are not attempting to do the best for their children and instead indoctrinate them completely. Of course, If this be the goal of a person today, They would simply enter the home school program and do this anyway. In order to completely protect against this, You need to decry homeschooling as unlawful, Which is a violation of a parents right to choose the course of education for their child. If you were to ban homeschooling, What is preventing the parent from preemptively indoctrinating their children to discount the education that is received at public school. I refuse to believe, Too, That sharing your values with your children, As long as those views are not in favor of violating anybody else's Rights, Is a bad thing. As for the case of ""enslaving children, "" I will agree that there are children who are abused or improperly used in a way which violates their human rights, Which is why we have police, Although I disagree with the way our Social Services works. This also begs the question: If parents are forcing their opinions and indoctrinating their children with them, What are teachers doing? I will leave the case of the system already being set up as indoctrination for later, But you cannot really be telling me that a teacher's bias won't come out and won't influence a young and impressionable child just as much as a parent's will. Even if they are getting other signals at home, This can only serve to confuse them into apathy, Ideological shock, Or, Only slightly better and as I pointed out earlier, Force the child who is unable to reach independent ideas of any real substance, To choose between those of teachers or parents. I am not making the argument that homeschooling should be the only education available. I am saying that there should be no government regulations on the curriculum of private schools. Public schools should be one per every 50, 000 children, Because only the poorest should need to attend the public schools. The public schools should be funded by taxes, As it is a human right and that is the only requisite for taxes. If they were rarer, Not as many taxes would be necessary. This money should be spread equally to all public schools, And should be the duty of state or city government. I never claimed that we should defund them or get rid of them completely. I simply said that mandatory attendance to these places which, Using your own words, Are ""dangerous for the children. "" This brings up another good point, Which is that many of these poor children are put in danger by dangerous criminals being who are forced to attend the same schools. If they were out of schools because they obviously have no desire to be there, Their crimes would at least be more obvious. If schools were, For the most part, Private enterprises, They would have to compete for attendance and, Therefore, Money from parents. This would give them a reason to improve and be better than the rest and continually improve. This would improve the school system. Many parents would also feel that real world experience could be more valuable than a school education and their children would get jobs at workplaces that would not feel pressured to hire educated people and pay better, Which would improve the work force by not only providing more time for people to work, But free up higher payed jobs for those who truly work for them and more blue collar jobs for those who don't work as hard. Again, The public school should be skeletal, Not nonexistent. And again, Any private school would act as a place to leave your children as would apprenticeships, Internships, And jobs. The mandated government tests are a problem in that they assume that every child is the same in the way that they learn. The hours aren't the main problem the main problem is the curriculum, Which I will get to soon. My points are as follows: Free childcare is not a human right. Education is. Therefore, There should be an option to attend public school for those who cannot afford anything else. However, Childcare would be provided through any school, Apprenticeships, And jobs, As I said before. ""Educators should be able to say what is and is not taught in schools. Homeopathy, Astrology, Creationism, Religion, Et cetera has no place in schools. "" Why not? Not everybody agrees with your narrow worldview. Your ""facts"" are nothing more than opinions with few facts that you actually understand that are twisted to fit the assertions. Therefore, Schools should be allowed to teach whatever they want and parents should be allowed to decide which school they send their children so that they get an education which caters to them. Secondly, Many schools to indeed indoctrinate children. An example would be the manipulation of history such as that of slavery. Your assertions that ""Slavery was a problem that was allowed to exist by the forefathers of the US and by concurrent generations of government until it was quashed by the people"" shows that you are a product of a biased source. The reason that our system demonizes the Founders is because they were (with the possible exception of Hamilton) against big government. Although some owned slaves, They were all opposed to the idea of slavery. The reason that they didn't get rid of their slaves were that Jefferson's were inherited and used as collateral on his farm. Washington's were freed at his death. Sam Addams was given a slave as a gift and refused it. They couldn't get rid of slavery (which was started by the Africans, Moved to the Portuguese, And then the English) was because doing so would lead to the South succeeding and the British being able to destroy all that they had worked for them. They put bans on slavery effective 20 years later and purposely put the ""Created Equal"" clause in because they knew that it was inconsistent and would soon lead to the destruction of slavery. I was also taught that the Founders were evil oppressors, But this could hardly be more false. My point was that it was ended by the people and not the government, Which you conceded to in your argument. Racism has never been inherent in the people, Only the big government supporting democrat KKK and Dixiecrats. This is true in the fact that teaching the historical travesty of the 100 million people who died directly because of socialist governments in the 20th century should make people adverse to it. Why, Then, Do so many people accept it as acceptable now? It is because they are taught that all economic systems are equal. True socialism has been tried. The only ones who use that excuse are people who support socialism but wish to distance themselves from the Nazis and USSR. Nobody should be given the responsibility to make the decisions for thousands of people. Get rid of the board of Education and localize education to improve it. I addressed the issue of Parents versus bureaucrats above. ""If you know what is best, Then you should take what educators say and be incredibly involved in your child's education. Contextualize for them. Tell them your opinions. Let them be the judge. This is parenting. "" This is parenting by Government while Parents are left to correct the information. The system I propose is much better for society as a whole and would lead to the improvement of America as a Free and educated nation in a world that has not progressed without us since the beginning of our great nation. It would lead to children even more productive than they are now with more opportunity to be had, Which is innately better than opportunity they had and refused to take part of. Governments and faceless ""educators"" can not be expected to know better than Parents how to educate. This is an Appeal to an Anonymous Authority. Our system can be improved through a variety of means, But giving children an opportunity to be educated, And allowing parents to opt out of education their children, Is to encourage Freedom and to discourage collectivism by showing these children what the world has to offer instead of the stifling and self absorbed world of academia. The mandate must cease to exist so that the Government or educators aren't allowed to indoctrinate children in such a way as to give the child no escape. Once again, Thank you for remaining civil. In Liberty, 1776debater"	CON	430
430	S19b8d77c-Abc6b624a	It is already taught in most religious education lessons	The Big Bang is also discussed in Religious education, even though that's a scientific theory - just because creationism has its roots in religion doesnt mean that it can't be scientifically prven some time in the future, I mean no one has worked out what the trigger for the bang was for all we know it could be a deity of some sort. Since the big bang is discussed in both Religious Education AND Science then so should creationism because they are both after all just theories and just because Creationism happens to involve a God doesn't mean that it should be ommitted from Scientific studies because that's just degrading for all those who believe in a God...it should at least be mentioned even if it's not in detail.	CON	431
431	S10c0bcf4-A4779c2ab	Education should be funded by vouchers granted to individual families, not public schools.	Once again, I am proposing a solution to the education problem that involves a system different from the current way of doing things. Yes, I am saying the government should stop regulating the field of education. This is not likely, I will admit, but it is the solution that would work the best. I hope you do not seriously think that a video arcade would be getting any money at all under this system. The entire POINT to privatizing a market is to allow the competitive nature of capitalism improve its overall quality. That is the reason there would not have to be some imposed method of government standards on schools; the market would by itself eliminate any substandard school. It may be easy to set up a video arcade that qualifies to receive vouchers, but how easy is to convince parents to send their child there for an education? The invisible hand works wonders when left to its own devices. To suggest the First Amendment does not apply to the states is laughable. ALL Amendments apply to the states! The Constitution is the highest forum of law in the land. Article VI specifically states that even state judges must comply with the Constitution. The issue I take with public schools is not so much the fact they are funded by taxpayer dollars, but the fact that they currently monopolize the market on education. A voucher system completely eliminates the monopoly on education, as should be done, but also makes it easier for families to gain access to a good education for their child. I will concede that it is possible for most families to obtain an education for their child without any sort of government funding. However, it is also true that repeated elections, on both state and local levels demonstrate that people are willing to submit to some measure of taxation in order to ensure some measure of education for all. So if the people willing accept a system that saves tax dollars, promotes competition and freedom of choice, and does not violate the Constitution, where is the problem?	PRO	432
432	S5e977bfe-A4d719bb1	Public Education is Better for Society than Private Education	"In response to Con's arguments: ""You have to understand the reasons parents send their kids to private schools. A huge amount of the reason is because of religion."" There are Roman Catholic Public Schools. ""Private schools do not always promote different social classes"" So Con is acknowledging that private school do promote social classes. My opponent""s source cites that there are 13% of people whose income are over $750 000 who attend private schools. This statistic could actually argue in my case, as the present inequality in America stems from the division between the wealthiest few percent with the rest. There are 117 million households in the USA - about 30% are households have children - so there are around 35 million households with children in the USA. 8.8 million (according to Con""s statistics) of 35 million households have income over $750 000, and only 13% of those attend private schools. Given that America""s private schools are some of the most expensive ones in the world, there seems to be a strong correlation between the percentage of the wealthiest Americans and the percentage of students attending private schools. ""Private schools generate a far better learning experience"" Con""s statistics have confounding factors present. In a determined society, richer students tend to do better than poorer students. Con""s source is also biased, as it is from the Council for American Private Education, which can present misguided information. For instance, a paper from the Ohio State University Research Foundation wrote that students from higher income families are the ones mosts likely to use SAT preparation tools such as classes and tutors, and these students average scores far higher on their SAT tests compared with those who didn""t take the classes. Thus it cannot be argued that students do better on the SAT are better academically than those who do not. Learning through SAT prep tools is not a good way to learn, as it promotes short retention spans, and some of the strategies used on the SAT is not applicable to one""s future endeavours. Additionally, marks of private schools are inflated. Is it a good system if a school""s potential to earn money is positively correlated to the marks their students receive? In fact, once public and private school students are put into the same environment, public school students often do better than private school students. The International Journal of Science Education looked at the academic performance of more than 4,500 students in a first-year physics class at the University of British Columbia between 2002 and 2006. They found that those who graduated from public schools in the Metro Vancouver area outperformed their peers arriving from private schools. Again, I will reiterate that generally, the pay and welfare many public school teachers receive is greater than private school teachers, which gives teachers incentives to move towards public schools. And while public schools have certain minimum requirements for teachers (certificates and degrees), private school teacher may not need those requirements. In fact, in most of the Canadian provinces and territories, independent schools are not even required to hire certified teachers. This is rampant in the United States as well. ""80.5% of parents who send their kids to private schools think that the smaller class size is important (3), so I'd say that aspect gives flexibility as well."" This is obviously the case, but is it better for the public for everybody in the public to be a part of a smaller class? Of course not. There would be not enough teachers. It wouldn""t be practical. Con cannot argue that private schools would be better for the ""public"" because it has smaller class sizes, simply because it wouldn""t have a big enough impact. Even if it did, there are magnet schools. http://www.prb.org... http://researchnews.osu.edu... http://712educators.about.com... http://www.theglobeandmail.com... http://www.theglobeandmail.com... http://www.moneysense.ca..."	PRO	433
433	Sa513ba08-A1da65063	Exams Ought to be Abolished from the Education System	It has been a pleasure debating with you, you've made some excellent and interesting points, thanks. 1. China/U.K. There is no doubt that abolishing exams will reduce stress, and possibly eliminate teen suicides, but I don't think it is the right solution. Homework could be abolished at one of Britain's most prestigious schools to combat teenage depression [1]. This makes a lot of sense because homework doesn't actually help students. Homework is unlike coursework, as it's based on what is taught in class, and doesn't count toward the final grade, so students will feel **unnecessarily tested** especially when given excessive amounts which are compulsively graded. [1] http://news.sky.com... Exams are necessary, so some stress should be expected. A lot more is done to prevent exam stress than stress from homework e.g. teachers tell students when to begin revising, what they need to know, and will give them a mock exam a year earlier to prepare them etc. For this reason I think that people who take psychiatric drugs before exams, do because homework has damaged their confidence. 2. Structure of Exam Exams help students to find ways to learn new things by consolidating notes, doing role play etc, this can help later in life when they need to pass higher level exams or the driving theory test. There is usually an adequate amount of time given to complete exams, even in Maths, but there are some papers like English Literature where you may have to write a story quickly or give a detailed explanation, these should be coursework. Spreading exams out and giving them less weight was just an idea I had to reduce stress, in practice it would probably cause students to learn that rote learning is the only method they need. 3. Ramifications of Abolition Employers are more interested in someone with a low A-level than someone with a high G.C.S.E grade. Therefore coursework should ideally be worth more due to reflecting greater knowledge. However at school, exams have to be worth more due to the amount of time spent in class. The stuff taught in lessons may seem basic but it is the foundation to learning, thus most important. It is important therefore that students feel it is important by testing them on this knowledge so they don't become unruly. 4. Bell Curving Exam papers change every year, they can be harder or easier, the fairest way to reflect someone's ability in my opinion is by grading on a curve. 5. Cheating It is difficult to cheat in an exam. Even if you were going to cheat in an exam it would only be practical to record small things like facts and equations. An understanding of them, and how to apply equations etc is still needed, whereas if you were to cheat in coursework e.g. by having someone do it for you, you wouldn't need to understand anything, which is clearly worse. However both exams and coursework are needed to minimize cheating. The purpose of school is to give students the best education, and I think that exams help with this. Please vote, and leave your comments, many thanks, and thanks again to my opponent. Kirk	CON	434
434	Sed52489a-Adba3e4d9	University education needs to be capped and more selective	A university degree has far less worth than it once did	PRO	435
435	S9f212a53-A7d19607	Voucher Education	The public school system is deteriorating, despite the mounting investment in it. Many children are trapped in bad schools and their parents cannot afford to send them to private school. Everyone should be given the opportunity to choose which school they wish their children to attend if our education system is to improve. It is imperative that we allow substandard schools to close. Shoveling heaps of money into fundamentally unreliable schools is nonsensical. Two things that the public school system does not have and will never have in its current form: competition (internal and external) and responsiveness to the market. These two issues are the main problems with the public school system today. The teacher's unions exploit the problems associated with the lack of competition. Since they have no real competition (private schools cannot be considered real competition the way things are) they have no reason to be innovative and responsive to what the market and the public want. If a voucher program was adopted, these problems would be avoided. 1) Public schools are universally more expensive (per capita) than their parochial and private school counterparts. This should be no surprise considering that most governmental bureaucracies are unproductive and suck up more money than is actually needed. Bearing in mind that private schools receive less money in tuition than the tax-paid funding that state-run schools collect, it's safe to say (as always) that the private sector provides a cheaper and more effective service. 2) You may argue that by establishing this voucher system, many public schools will lose funding that they desperately need. My argument: this is how the free market works. If a school fails to attract students for one reason or another, it must close. Why pump truckloads of tax-payer dollars into a failing school district when you could just as easily distribute vouchers so that students can attend a school of their choosing (the better school). OR! The particular public schools that are losing students to private schools could do a better job (they do receive more money than them after all). If students do leave public schools for private schools, there must be a reason. Oh yeah, private schools are better. Competition's a bitch, ain't it? 3) Market forces. They cause business to fulfill bigger and better things. Without them, business is static, and at times regressive. The same would apply to the school system. The competition increase that comes with the voucher system would encourage innovation and efficiency in schools. School administrations will have to battle to attract students in order to receive funds instead of just sitting back watching the students march into their school. They'll be forced to provide attractive and valuable services in order to stay alive. Perhaps the financial squeeze of the voucher would help clean up the costly teacher union scam. Hm. 4) With competition in full swing, a new and fascinating concept may be enacted in American school systems…variety. Schools will be more inclines to incorporate a kind of specialization in their educational programs and students will begin to notice a diverse range of professional-based schools programs. Academic innovation anybody? 5) Yes, private schools produce better academic results and require less funding than public schools. So why not just go to the private school? Because the average American family cannot afford (or don't see the practicality in paying) both a private school tuition and the fat public school tax.	PRO	436
436	S10c0bcf4-A5f38e00d	Education should be funded by vouchers granted to individual families, not public schools.	"It is no secret that public schools in this country are floundering. Across the board, American students are slaughtered on international performance tests. Clearly, there is a problem. One look at the schools provided by the government clearly shows why. Complacency. Public schools have a de facto monopoly on education in America. They are supported entirely by involuntarily-given tax dollars by every taxpayer, whether their child attends the school or not. Even if a parent decides to send their child to a private school, they must pay for their child's education as well as foot the bill for a public school education via their local taxes. It is unfair to ask parents who choose to avoid public schools (schools that are in many cases sub-standard) to support them anyway. If a parent cannot afford to pay for both schools, the choice is made for them; public schools only, unless you have lots of extra cash. As to the quality of education, again the public school system delivers a failure. Public schools do not match up to the performance of private schools, even the low cost charter schools that operate in urban areas. (Often these schools can make do with less money than public schools receive and still generate a healthy profit.) Private schools have to compete to earn funding; if their school were of substandard quality, no one would pay to send their child there and the school would go under. Public schools are funded out of the taxpayer's pocket, like it or not. They do not have to attract customers, or compete to keep them. Unless a family can find a low-cost school, or is somewhat wealthy, public schools are their only option. This is not to say that education should be entirely privatized. Despite its many problems, the basic idea of providing an education to all citizens has benefited our society greatly. Therefore, a combination of systems should be implemented. A system where schools can compete to win customers and make a profit, but where parents do not necessarily have to pay the full cost of their child's education. This is where the voucher system comes to the rescue. In the voucher system, each student has x amount of dollars ""attached"" to them, to be spent on education. That money is given to any school the parents choose to educate their child. If the cost of the school is less than or equal to the amount on the voucher, the child gets a free education, same as he or she would at public school. If the cost is more, however, it is up to the parents to foot the higher bill. This system has been studied statistically as well as tried and proven. There are several voucher or voucher-like programs in various states. The Friedman Foundation studied these programs and found that all of them operated at least at financial equilibrium; most actually produced a tax savings for the state. (Compare that to the average government program that runs several billion dollars in the red.) As to the quality of education in this system, one need only look at the Dutch education system. Their school choice system operates cheaper and better than the current American system by a wide margin. (Dutch high school students place much higher than Americans on scholastic performance tests.) Even in poor countries like Vietnam and the Congo, private schools are appearing. Like the charter schools in America, these schools offer a cheaper, better education than public alternatives. If this system can flourish even in the poorest nations, there is no reason it cannot succeed in America."	PRO	437
437	S64c53e3d-A664f4097	Higher Education ought to be private and indiviuals ought to pay for it themselves.	This is last round and I will recap. 1. Interest of every society is to educate everyone for something that will benefit the whole community. If education is not free that means that it is available only to those who can pay. Thus society is losing many talented people who came from poor families and are not able to finance themselves. Tax system is 'if you have a lot of money - you pays more, but if you have nothing you also pays nothing' and that's normal. Your education is paid from someone who is also got education paid from someone... On this way you are basicaly paying for your children's education. And there is always one thing- it's much more better that taxpayer's money goes for someone's education than to go on same 'dark ways'. When money goes for education you exactly know where money is going, so this reduces possibility for misuse. Description of banks and loans means only one thing- THOSE WHO REALLY NEED LOAN CAN'T GET IT! All said above means that poor people or alone student can't get a loan because it's risky. And I completely agree with bank's theory, it's normal. So in system where free University does not exist, I as alone student without parents support, can not get education. I didn't even got a chance! 2. Every university which is free for students have regulations which prevent 'ever study'. This means that there is a norm that every student must meet if he/she wants to continue education. If he/she doesn't meet norm education is not free anymore (except in cases of serious illness or another strong valid reason). This prevents problems such as 'bad students', 'dissatisfied teachers' and many others. It is possible that some students try to achieve a minimum, but the minimum is quite sufficient. Achieve a minimum does not mean achieve nothing. Achieve a minimum means achieve enough to continue education. If someone does badly for a semester or makes a mistake loses right for free education, and if he/she wants to continue education he/she have to pay education. That one had a chance and didn't use it so now have to pay. 3. Everyone should have the opportunity Everyone should have opportunity to go to University. Knowledge is not a commodity. Education is not for sale. Of course that rich people have some extra benefits, they can choose between Private and free University, but most important thing is that those who don't have money can be educated. What happens if you don't have free University? A lot of talented people can not go to University because they don't have money! Sad... EDUCATION IS NOT GOOD IF IT'S NOT AVAILABLE TO EVERYONE! How educational system can be good when the main thing in the whole system are money?! Conclusion: Education is free and that not means that it's bad. Usually all best students are going on free university because they are sure that they can meet the norm and as a reward for their hard work it's all free! You should not buy your diploma as you're buying clothes or chocolate. There is always possibility that some owners of private universities would like only to take money from you and sell you a diploma, not to give you good education and it's all legal because of the system. In the system where universities are free main thing is not money. Anyway, free universities provide an opportunity for everyone, regardless of its financial status. All men are born equal and everyone should have the same opportunity! Everyone should be allowed the opportunity of free education and each individual should choose its own way. Education is not for sale! Knowledge is not a commodity! Education is one of the most important things in people's lives. Every men are born equal and everyone deserve opportunity for better life! Thanks everyone!	CON	438
438	Sf5635870-Ad54b3a0b	A National Curriculum: Lower Education for a Lowerclass??? I think not...	Their parents were dumb, and their children become dumb, so they are dumb. Look at it this way, it is the greatest good for everyone, makes it easier on the lower class, how are statisticly proven facts, partically common sense, they have higher drop outs and graduates at college. Vote for the neg for reality.	CON	439
439	S269c4789-A736d2da4	Homework has little educational worth, and therefore is a waste of students' time	Homework has little educational worth and adds nothing to the time spent in school. Some schools and some countries don't bother with homework at all, and their results do not seem to suffer from it. Studies show that homework adds nothing to standardised test scores for primary/ elementary pupils. As Alfie Kohn notes, no study has ever found a link between homework and better tests results in elementary school, and there is no reason to believe it is necessary in high school.1 International comparisons of older students have found no positive relationship between the amount of homework set and average test scores - students in Japan and Denmark get little homework but score very well on tests.2 If anything, countries with more homework get worse results! 1 Sorrentino, 2011 2 Britt, 2005	PRO	440
440	S64c53e3d-A546fccc9	Higher Education ought to be private and indiviuals ought to pay for it themselves.	Every country needs experts Every society must invest in its own potentials in order to avoid the collapse that happened in Germany when they realised that they have no experts and that they have to accept that they must import foreign professionals from India and around the world. Interest of every society is to educate everyone for something that will benefit the whole community. If education is not free that means that it is available only to those who can pay. Thus society is losing many talented people who came from poor families and are not able to finance themselves. All men are born equal and everyone should have the same opportunity! 2. Knowledge is not a commodity! Education is not for sale! Even education is free it's not everything free. Student still have to pay accommodations, food, transport, etc. Every university which is free for students have regulations which prevent 'ever study'. This means that there is a norm that every student must meet if he/she wants to continue education. If he/she doesn't meet norm education is not free anymore (except in cases of serious illness or another strong valid reason). This prevents problems such as 'bad students', 'dissatisfied teachers' and many others. 3. Possibility of choice Possibility of choice should always exist. If you're not satisfied with free University and you have money and you don't want to someone else pays for you you can always go to Private University. It is important that you had a chance choose the best way for yourself. Everyone should be allowed the opportunity of free education and each individual should choose its own way. As a good example of the state with free education we have Denmark. In Denmark education (primary and secondary but also higher education) is absolutely free. After High school when you start University, if you're moved from parents you have right to the scholarship which is approximately 500 EUR per month. If you still live with parents you also get the scholarship (little less than 500 EUR). In both cases state is paying you! You can get scholarship as many years as it is standardized length of study + one extra year. If you are a female and become pregnant, then for each child you get double scholarship one year after the birth of a child + extend your right to a scholarship for a year for each child. This scholarship is a gift from the state because it is something that you get and you should never return. It's true that tax is bigger than usual but system works very good because no one is depend on parents and their salary and absolutely everyone has the same right to higher education. So, if the entire life your parents were unemployed and social cases for any reason, you have absolutely the same opportunities for education as well as anyone else. Here you can see students protests worldwide against commercialisation of education: http://fading-hope.blog-city.com... Sources: http://www.emancipating-education-for-all.org... http://www.eng.uvm.dk...	CON	441
441	Sab7e692e-A63ea0f2f	a penny is worth more then a dime	I would like to take this time to sample a chicken wing drenched in hot sauce	PRO	442
442	Sab7e692e-A126e8899	a penny is worth more then a dime	*awaits an opponent to let start* Will post my arguments in R2.	PRO	443
443	Sab7e692e-Adf9b9455	a penny is worth more then a dime	Good because I would like to take this time to drink a Dr. Pepper and eat a cadbery egg. I will also expose this debate as a method of trolling, and not intended to be a real debate about the value of pennies.	CON	444
444	Sab7e692e-A83d837c8	a penny is worth more then a dime	if your are starting R2 then so am I Thank you for starting this debate.	CON	445
445	Sab7e692e-A4e1dc12d	a penny is worth more then a dime	No, thank you	PRO	446
446	S4692357-Ae17c926e	The Banking Concept of Education is Oppressive	"As a student I have felt oppressed by my teacher. Not only in knowledge but in ability. In being told I was wrong or i couldn't do something puts a strain on my actual abilities and knowledge. ""His (the teacher) task is to 'fill' the students with the contents of his narration-contents which are detached from reality"" This quote from Freire explains how the knowledge being fed to the children does not help them on a social standpoint but more a knowledge ""dump site"" where memorization and brain wash occur. As Freire puts it, ""Education thus becomes an act of depositing, in which the student are the depositories and the teacher is the depositor."" Not only do we learn from instruction, we also learn from watching. To say a student could not show a teacher how to do something is preposterous, as the famous quote goes, ""we learn something new each day."""	PRO	447
447	S32cc52fb-Afb5515e7	Health care/education is NOT a right	"Accepted. To begin with, I reject Pro's argument that ""In order for something to be a right, everyone must be able to exercise the ""right"" at the exact same time."" There are many constitutionally protected rights that cannot be exercised by everyone at the same time. With respect to rights specifically enumerated in the constitution, the right to a trial by jury, or to be represented by an attorney, or against self-incrimination, only operate when you are accused of a crime. The right to bear arms does not apply to felons. Even our most fundamental rights - like the rights to freedom of speech or religion - cannot truly be exercised by everybody at the same time; these rights are meaningless to, for instance, very small children and infants who do not have the capacity to even understand them. The courts of the United States have recognized other rights and liberties that are protected under the constitutional requirement that no person can be deprived of life, liberty or property without due process of law -- rights like the right to marry, or to send your children to religious school. Those rights only apply to adults and parents, respectively. Because I don't have children, I cannot right now exercise the right to send my children to religious school - but it's still a protected right. Pro's criteria for rejecting a right to health care or education therefore does not withstand even a brief examination. So what are ""rights""? Rights stem from ""recognition of the inherent dignity ... of all members of the human family."" Our understanding of rights can - and has - evolved over time to include ""freedom from fear and want"" as part of what humanity aspires to achieve for all people. Accordingly, both access to adequate medical care and universal access to education have been recognized as inalienable human rights under the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. [1] [1] http://www.un.org..."	CON	448
448	S574204c1-Aa1618fcf	Personal Bankruptcy is worth doing	"It's obvious that by opponent has never declared bankruptcy and doesn't know what he/she is talking about. I am speaking from experience. Chapter 13 is for business. The debate is about PERSONAL bankruptcy (chapter 7) ""Bankruptcy will destroy your reputation. By law, bankruptcy is on the public record. People all around you will find out about it. Many of these people will not be kind, including people in your circle of friends, or even your family. You can bet it will be truly stressful."" OK I'll admit my credit score went rock bottom after the first year after bankruptcy, but I didn't need any credit, so I didn't care. No stress at all. Friends and family didn't even know.,,,and so what if they did. It didn't hurt them. ""First off, your credit will be absolutely destroyed for some time. Credit companies will make life hell. Banks and the like won""t give out mortgages, car loans, etc., so good luck buying things."" I already had a new car (for free) so I didn't need a car loan. I put down $100 on a ""pre-paid"" credit card and kept that in good standing, which pretty much repaired my credit score in less than a year. In only 2 years after my bankruptcy, I got a Fannie May mortgage and got a house with only $10,000 down. After 7 years my bankruptcy was too old for anyone to care about and I refinanced my house from 8% to 3.5%. That's better than some people without a bankruptcy. ""It will become more difficult to get a good job, being that many employers nowadays check credit information before hiring."" If you have a career and and a good work reputation, you'll get plenty of work. Companies care more about whether you can do the job or not. ""Future landlords will decline you, because they will check your credit."" Who needs a landlord when you can own your own home!? ""Your insurance may very well take a leap into the heavens, and, if you discharged medical debts, your health is at risk, because hospitals and the like won""t want to treat you."" LOL...my insurance was just fine and every emergency room, by law, can't turn you away from treatment. ""If you discharge a mortgage or a car loan, you may lost them to the bank."" With chapter 7 you can keep your home and your car. ""Aside from those reasons above, you must calculate how you will feel, as a person, who cheated the system, which is what you are doing. You are a failure and a liar in some respects."" I didn't cheat anybody. I ""borrowed"" money that didn't even exist. The bank made the money out of thin air and lent it to me. I'm not the bad guy. Getting $50,000 for free is far from a failure. Summary: I spent $50,000 on trips, a new car, clothes, restaurants and electronic equipment. I had the time of my life and the worst thing that happened was that I had to use a pre-paid credit card for a year. I kept everything and got a mortgage 2 years later. It didn't hurt my job, my insurance or my friendships. I would do it again in a heartbeat and so should everybody else. It's legal and it's free money the bank created just for you. It stimulates the economy and gets new money circulated into the system, and doesn't hurt the banks."	PRO	449
449	S574204c1-A66bc7ba2	Personal Bankruptcy is worth doing	I accept the debate and wait for a response.	CON	450
450	Sfe4e6726-A119d95c7	Resolved: Affirmative action should be practiced in college admissions.	"==== OBSERVATIONS ==== Re: CON's 01: If we are to take the resolution as meaning what it says it does, then PRO must only show that it is should be practiced at all, and con must show that it should not be practiced at all. Compare this to saying ""Scientists should research a cure for AIDS"" or ""Scientists should not research a cure for AIDS"" In the first statement, it's obvious that we're not talking saying that every scientist should research AIDS, or even that the majority should. IT simply means that some subset of 'scientists' should research a cure for AIDS, whether that is two scientists or a thousand. And the second statement obviously means that no scientists should research a cure for AIDS. In this same vein, PRO in this debate only need show that SOME college admissions should practice affirmative action, while CON must show that none should. Not that it matters at all, since both myself and my opponent are using wide-scale arguments rather than targeting only a few specific colleges. Re: CON's O4: I concede here. My opponent has pointed out that it does not matter how many points we drop, it only matters who has done a better job of convincing you that their side is correct. ==== CONTENTIONS: ==== I _CONCEDE_ a point my opponent has brought up - that AA in its current form is reverse discrimination, since it favors minorities over majorities. Instead of treating people equally, it discriminates against those who never used to be discriminated against in order to help those who did. Allow me then to create the final contention of this debate. C4: Given that AA in its current form is discrimination against majorities, removing this system would itself be a different implementation of AA. From D1, AA is an action that favors those who tend to be discriminated against. In the status quo at colleges, majorities tend to be discriminated against, and removing this system would certainly be an act which favors those majorities with respect to the status quo. (""favors"" as a verb means to work to the advantage of, and removing AA clearly works to majority groups' advantage, albeit much more fairly) Let me explain just how significant this is. With regard to the current implementation of AA, there are really only two ways to go. First, we could keep it, meaning colleges would continue practicing the AA they currently practice. Second, we could get rid of it or change it so it doesn't put majority groups at a relative disadvantage anymore, meaning colleges should practice AA in abolishing the current system. And in fact, of the two main choices above, I'm not even going to tell you which one colleges should do - it doesn't matter. I have proven that colleges should, in one way or another, practice AA in college admissions. As far as this debate is concerned, ONE of the implementations I have given for AA MUST be what should happen. Thus, I have successfully affirmed the resolution - to negate it, my opponent would have to show that neither of these implementations of AA is what should happen, and something else should happen instead that cannot be classified as AA. I'm not going to bother arguing against my opponent's contentions, since they're all arguments in favor of one of my own advocacies - stopping the current discriminatory system of AA."	PRO	451
451	S68f43582-A59f3dabf	Public education in America is the death of freedom	I accept and will be arguing that public education is not the death of freedom. This is an interesting assertion, that I have never heard proposed. I am interested in seeing how pro substantiates this assertion.	CON	452
452	S23e4ddc5-A533e957b	The U.S. Federal Government Should Abolish the Department of Education	Thank you for instigating this relevant and not super common debate. My opponent has conceded that if I prove any of the following then I win: A. That the harms he presents in the status quo are not significant, B. That his plan do not solve his harms, or C. That his plan is not the only way to solve the harms. I can say honestly, that I can prove at least B and C. So here we go. My opponent's plan does not solve the harms: My opponent's case, when it comes to the harms, is not actually logical. The first harm my opponent lists is that the Department of Education is irresponsible. It is not practical to fix this problem by abolishing the Department of Education. This is something of an extreme example, but it's a proper analogy. For the sake of argument, let's say that there's a fourteen year old boy who is completely unproductive. He doesn't focus on any sort of responsibility, and he's constantly getting into fights. Let's say that this is a harm to the people around him, because he's a bad influence, and he hurts people when he punches them. The proper solution to help this child is not capital punishment. That wouldn't remove the harms. That would just kill the boy. The proper way to solve the harms would be to rehabilitate him. What I mean by this is that it is much harder to solve the harms of a system once you have destroyed it. If we were to destroy the department of education, every single city and every school board and every state would suddenly have the hierarchy cut. That means they'd be in a state of disorder because the order they once had no longer exists. So all of these thousands of individual parts would have to reorder themselves. The second harm he provides is that 1.4 trillion dollars have been wasted. This is an extreme statement. That's the approximate amount of money that the Department of Education has spent. That is not how much of it was a waste of money. I'm not going to deny that they may have wasted money, but the fact that they have wasted money does not necessitate that every single dollar was wasted. Thus, my opponent has not proven at all that 14 trillion dollars have been wasted by this department. On another note, my opponent's plan does not give funding to the state. In fact, it denies funding to the state at all. The states are all given the power of the Department of Education. That means that they need some sort of extended spending power in order to carry out those same powers. Otherwise solving this harm is just as easy as reforming the system. That leads me to the next point. This is not the only way. I'm going to be brief about this. It is possible to add further regulations to the system to reform its spending powers and its power distribution with the states. Reform is a possible solution. That means that abolition isn't the only solution. That means that I win point C as well as point B. I've fulfilled my burden.	CON	453
453	S8192c755-A1ef8444e	Is debating worth debating about	vote me for conduct	CON	454
454	S8192c755-Abe23c2cd	Is debating worth debating about	:c another forfit	CON	455
455	S8192c755-A33f004f8	Is debating worth debating about	What is the point of this?	PRO	456
456	S7519549b-A13216861	Animals are worth more	"When i mentioned the organization ""World Animal Protection"" i didn't refer to a zoo. This organization is trying to stop animal cruelty and they made a big difference by saving billions of animals. This can not be compared to a zoo, i do not believe in zoos. The purpose of a zoo is not to save animals, this organization saves animals and if it is not possible to release them in to nature, they release them in a big reservation where they can have a normal life. As defense to your argument that animals do not have a clue about what morality is, I made some research and found that there has been made scientific research showing that they do have moral. Quote form the page ""And there are many examples of animals demonstrating ostensibly compassionate or empathetic behaviors toward other animals, including humans. In one experiment, hungry rhesus monkeys refused to electrically shock their fellow monkeys, even when it meant getting food for themselves."" http://www.livescience.com... There has been a lot of these situations where animals showed ability of morally behavior. This proves that animals do have the ability to act upon their feelings and not only acting from instinct of survival. Animals kill other animals and sometimes humans as an act of survival. Predators live from killing other animals, that is the way of nature. When they kill a human it is because they feel threatened by the human or sees it as a prey. This is why we should not interfere with animals capable of killing us. We should let them have a normal life in the nature. The animals that we do live together with like pets and farming animals, should be treated the best way possible. I belive that is by giving them a life where they do not suffer, they are treated with respect and they get as many as their natural needs fulfilled."	PRO	457
457	Sae9368dd-A43da0c23	Education should be Mandated in the United States of America	"Happy to think with you today, We can agree that Individualism was a big part of the thinking of the Founding Fathers. However, Technology, Science, And our understanding of reality has improved enough to where we know individuals can only thrive under the right conditions. Keeping the balance of power between individuals and the collective is extremely important, But as far as the issue we have come together to discuss goes, A basic education is the foundation for both society and the individual. Education in some form absolutely must be mandated. I will put out an idea or two, Talk of your points, And return the torch to you. 1. Children must be protected from their Parents. If we stop mandated education, What we are really doing is allowing children to be belongings, Or the indoctrinated pets of their parents forever. Religious parents indoctrinate children to believe all that they do. You can take Islam and child soldiers of Africa as examples. What if these children were given an education that taught them to think critically and analyze even their deepest held beliefs? Children do not belong to their parents. They are not slaves. It is part of the reason I am against homeschooling. There are plenty of parents who do it well, But their own biases too often slip in. A parent's role is to help bring up their children in the best manner. It is a ridiculous notion that parents will be able to teach every subject as well as a qualified teacher in each field. It is ridiculous to think that an individual knows best how to teach lessons, Not the people who have gone through the research in these fields. One can argue that the school system can be improved, But not that each individual parent is capable of teaching as well as educators. I am a musician and string teacher for over a decade. No private individual without a decade of training could pray to understand how to teach like I can. 2. The Public School System In the US, Our public school systems are largely underfunded. Many of the schools have sections that are actually dangerous for the children. If we are going to have public schools, We should be obligated to fund them. Republicans and Democrats both are actively failing at this role. The way the current system is set up, Property taxes in each area fund the schools there. This is a problem. All rich people move to the same districts, And all poor people are left with underfunded schools. If you have been to a rich area's school and a poor area's, This difference is easily noted. Poor children are the ones who truly pay this difference. Public School, Or education in general, Is supposed to be the great equalizer. No matter who your parents are, You can get an education and if you try hard enough you will have at least a chance to make a great life for yourself. The education system is failing poor children to give them anywhere near the same opportunity. Naturally, Rich parents will be able to pay for better education for their children through various means, But that does not mean public schools should add to that disparity. We can all agree that the public school system in the USA is garbage, But the solution is not to throw it out of the window and allow children no opportunities to succeed simply because some children do not grab those opportunities full-heartedly. In the future you present, We allow children to fail. We allow parents to chose that they do not get an education. Literacy rates decline, Children lose their futures, The work force of the US deteriorates in proficiency, Et cetera. All to prove a slight improvement in education for the ones who are allowed to attend. This does not guarantee that they put their all into it. The focus should be on improving education, Not removing the mandate. Parents who don't think education is necessary for their children are likely the reason the mandate has to exist at all. If your beliefs and worldview that you teach your children can't withstand the rigors of a public education, Then it is far too frail to exist in the first place. Individuals can only be themselves once they understand all that exists within our society. The should be subjected to experiences of as many subjects as possible so they can find what they love. A simple existence in one town will not teach them all the world has to offer. We can agree that the mandate requires too much time. The many years of public education is not necessary. I can take a student from beginner to professional in just a handful of years. The system should be amended and improved. That doesn't change that education should absolutely be mandated with the current state of the world. Now for some of your points. 1. ""The public school system was never meant to be the main source of education in America. "" et al The public school system is still the option for poor families. It provides both an education and free childcare. If their children were not in public school, They would be either at home possibly alone, Or the parents would have to pay for childcare. Private schools and homeschooling are still options. Parenting is still an option. The mandate of certain number of hours matters little if you do homeschooling and they pass the proper tests. Educators should be able to say what is and is not taught in schools. Homeopathy, Astrology, Creationism, Religion, Et cetera has no place in schools. 2. ""Government Worshippers/Indoctrinations"" I'll need a specific example of how education forces people to worship government. It is true that the more educated one gets the more left-leaning they tend to be, For a variety of reasons. We can go into economics arguments if you'd like on specific topics, But that would seem to be a distraction from the topic at hand. Slavery was a problem that was allowed to exist by the forefathers of the US and by concurrent generations of government until it was quashed by the people, Not by government specifically, Though government was the trigger, And the government can be blamed in large part for allowing it to begin with, Or for not addressing it sooner. No one I've heard gives government all the credit for this. Racism is the same, And it's still a problem that can't be solved by government, But by education and self-realization that racism is a ridiculous notion. The Great Depression could be said to have been caused in part by the government and solved in part by the government. I have no idea how you think the school systems force people to think the government deserves full credit for these things. Classes I've been in have denigrated our government. Not to the extent it should be perhaps, But it nonetheless never put me in a position where I was in love with government. 3. ""Socialist Dreams"" Education is good for this as well. Socialism has not worked in the past. Education can show this. Further economic education can suggest that a mixed economy works better than pure capitalism or pure socialism. In reality, Pure capitalism and pure socialism have both never been tried. But that again is more of an economic discussion than a discussion involving an education mandate. 4. Government Knows Best It isn't just ""The Government"" that decides these kind of things. It's the department of education. It's a collection, Ideally, Of real educators. What we have now is a partisan system where the president decides the leader of this. It's absurd. Betsy DeVos has no business being in lead of this with her nonexistent and in fact contradictory credentials. It's no wonder the education system is broken. The department should be a collection of educators voted on by educators. Parents deserve no faith in being able to ""know what is best for their children. "" Their children are not their toys. Any random parent should be trusted no more than a random government official to ""know what is best"" for them. I apologize if this insults you. I believe it to be the case for myself. If you know what is best, Then you should take what educators say and be incredibly involved in your child's education. Contextualize for them. Tell them your opinions. Let them be the judge. This is parenting. There will always be parents who are not looking out for their child's best interest. Without the mandate, What opportunity does life hold for these children? Their parents will keep them uneducated, And they will remain in their house as slaves. As most children are to their parents. Children do not know what is best for them. On this we agree. Parents largely do not know, And some do not care. Believe not in the public education system or the government, But in the educators. My priority as an instructor is to teach your children to think for themselves and I put them first always. To conclude this round, The system you propose is worlds worse for society as a whole and would lead to the downfall of America as an educated nation in a world that will progress without us. It would lead to children even more ignorant than they are now with no opportunity to be had, Which is innately worse than opportunity they had and failed at. Failing when given an opportunity can be a fire that fuels your next opportunity. Parents and Governments can not be expected to know better than educators how to educate. Our system can be improved through a variety of means, But failing to give children an opportunity to be educated, Or allowing parents to opt out of education their children, Is to encourage slavery and to discourage individualism by not showing these children what the world has to offer and not teaching them alternative, Potentially better ways to explore the world around them. The mandate must exist so parents aren't allowed to indoctrinate their children in such a way as to give the child no escape. They have plenty of opportunity to convince their child outside of school time as it stands now. The balance is kept. May your thoughts be clear, -Thoht."	PRO	458
458	Sa0587216-Af41ac5e1	a legal qualification is worth the cost	Law school helps graduates to think more clearly making them more attractive to other employers.	PRO	459
459	Sa0587216-Ac2b619d5	a legal qualification is worth the cost	A stint at law school is of little value to those who are not pursuing a legal degree, but nonetheless many applicants treat it as a second shot at an Undergraduate degree.	CON	460
460	Sa0587216-Ae99bdc12	a legal qualification is worth the cost	You need a legal qualification to be a lawyer	PRO	461
461	Sa0587216-Aace48b4e	a legal qualification is worth the cost	The debt incurred in the pursuit of a law degree limits options both within the legal industry, and outside of it, by compelling recipients to seek out the highest paying jobs.	CON	462
462	Sa0587216-A5197924b	a legal qualification is worth the cost	The actual opportunities outside of the top ten law schools are quite limited.	CON	463
463	Sa0587216-Ad3fe18a0	a legal qualification is worth the cost	Law School provides a safe haven from which to wait out a bad economy.	PRO	464
464	Sa0587216-A4ed26d2e	a legal qualification is worth the cost	A legal qualification is a gateway to a number of different career paths.	PRO	465
465	Sa0587216-Ab40b1cb2	a legal qualification is worth the cost	Failing a law degree can be extremely costly.	CON	466
466	Sa0587216-A50ffbfbe	a legal qualification is worth the cost	Admissions tests such as the LNAT exaggerate small differences in performance	PRO	467
467	S3b05a433-Aa0a07f77	Physical Education should be taught differently than it currently is.	My opponent primarily brings up the concern concerning a student's freedom of choice within education. However, education as a whole is mandatory. There is no choice involved. Any classroom or education has a required amount of work a student may or may not do. Is it a violation of student rights to be required to do their Algebra homework when they, in fact, detest the work and have no desire to do the work at all? The flaw in my opponents opinion, with all due respect, is that if students only did what they wanted to do the education system would fail entirely. In fact, the physical education system has failed entirely. Just look at the evidence: 1. One third of all children born in 2000 are expected to develop diabetes in their lifetimes. (Task Force on Obesity) 2. More than a quarter of all Americans 17 to 24 are unqualified for military service because they are overweight. 3. About one in three, 31.7 percent of children 2 to 19 years old are now overweight or obese. Read more: http://www.macon.com... Simply teaching a child to be fit and healthy is not adequate or effective. They must be required to be fit and healthy. Whether or not the child believes the exercise will be valuable to them does not change the incredible importance and value of exercise and a healthy diet. Granted, no system can be perfect. However, our current Physical Education System can be perfected. My opponent brings up a good point: everyone has a different style and a different methods of effective exercise unique to them self. A modification to exercise logs could be several different variations of exercise logs. One exercise log could focus on lifting weights as a primary form of muscular development while another could focus on swimming for that method. These would be based on the child's individual interests, body type, exercise preferences, etc. However, each exercise log must require the child to exercise both through cardio and muscular methods. Furthermore, I would like to include a diet log based on the same ideals and functions as the exercise log. The essentials of education require students to commit to tasks they may or may not wish to do. Why do this? Because it is for both the students' own good and the good of the society in which they live. Healthy exercise is benifical to a society because it increases the students' health and therefore ability to work and function properly. By educating children concerning physical health in a constructive yet firm manner we will sculpt a happier and healthier generation and for generations to come.	PRO	468
468	Sbd70c81e-A1bbaf357	We should follow the example of Finland's education system.	American (and I might also include French because I have grown up in that educational system) should follow the Finnish example of an education system, that is less homework and testing, shorter schooldays, longer classes and longer holidays. Also a very important part of their education system is emphasis on teacher training.	PRO	469
469	S26722052-Adc86d3d1	anything worth talking about	abc	PRO	470
470	S26722052-Afdfdf810	anything worth talking about	"It is great for discovering personal tastes and things, but I think society has taken it too far. People now are often ""indie"" because they purely want to be different, not because they actually dislike the ""mainstream"" You want to propose a topic?"	PRO	471
471	S26722052-A602f3c6e	anything worth talking about	True even individualism is becoming main stream so really the main streamers(as i call them) Ruin it for us. Sad really...	CON	472
472	S26722052-A5747ba77	anything worth talking about	If you have something to talk, ramble, or complain about... Come on.	CON	473
473	S26722052-A3bd56ea1	anything worth talking about	"BTW what do you think about the influx of political correctness in recent years, e.g. the insistence on now not calling the holidays ""Christmas holidays"", or ""Easter holidays"", or saying the 12 days of holidays...??"	PRO	474
474	S26722052-Acb7e1d96	anything worth talking about	"What do you think about the recent culture of individualism or as it is known on the street, being ""indie""?"	PRO	475
475	S1f23449c-Aa74fb1a	Improving Education Will do Nothing To Solve Economic Woes	As this will be the final round, I must be frank. Bias gets in the way of truth, if you are in the right then it will show and likewise with me. I have shown how each of my points connected to form a picture, this picture illustrated the fact that it is the moral and ethical education that is derived from rigorous study that affects wealth, thusly connecting the countries wealth and it's education. I have shown that it is the innovations of a few that affect the majority, thusly connecting the moral and ethical education of a few to the wealth of a country. I have shown that the converse to be true as well. I have shown that it is the quality of the job's that affect the number of jobs, thereby affecting the economy, and in turn the wealth of the country. If I have left anything out I welcome another debate with PRO as this has been more than fun. Thank you for the opportunity to debate with you.	CON	476
476	Se6ffa8fb-A877e5096	Paying for their education gives students sovereignty and responsibility for it	If students are made to pay for the tertiary education they choose to undertake it gives them a greater responsibility over their studies. This means that they will be more likely to perform academically and are less likely to do anything that will jeopardize the substantial investment they would have made into their education. In the long run this will also teach university graduates to be more responsible over things like their families and jobs. In summary, making students pay for their tuition fees will encourage academic performance, and therefore increase both the long term and short term benefits of undertaking a graduate degree	PRO	477
477	Se0dd9576-Afcf8919f	are the constant phone tappings and violations of privacy worth it? (adressing the NSA and PRISM)	"""Those who surrender freedom for security will not have, nor do they deserve, either one."" - Benjamin Franklin Those who want security do not have to surrender their freedom. In fact, those who support the NSA tapping their phones would still have the freedom to talk about what they pleased. The only freedom that they would surrender is talking about terrorist actions which is security and freedom that they wouldn't deserve. The United States of America was created for one sole purpose, to ensure the freedom of its citizens. The United States of America was also created to be free from British tyranny. It also wanted its citizens to be free from such tyranny which was why the government is not acting tyrannical, and tapping phones is not tyrannical and does not harm the citizen. http://en.wikipedia.org... What the government is doing is a horrible violation of human rights, to tap the masses over a minuscule chance of a terrorist attack is unjustifiable. So you say that privacy is a human right. The government would be violating this right by tapping our phones and invading our privacy, but like I said earlier, this right to privacy is justifiable to protect our lives and that the off-chance that our death is caused because of terrorist acts that could have been prevented, then privacy would have no matter as life is much more important that a quality of life. There is no point to living a life with privacy and rights if there was not a life to begin with. You also say, the minuscule chance of a terrorist attack is unjustifiable? Well, you know that from my previous source the casualty count of just one terrorist plot that killed so many lives. Well, there could have been the possibility of more terrorist schemes that could have occurred. The NSA director states that more than 50 terrorist plots have been stopped thanks to them. http://www.theverge.com... Even though this could not have been truly authenticated, has there not been a terrorist attack after 9/11? It is at least worth saying something that is actually doing something because we at least know that they are working to do something. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights declares the following: No one shall be subjected to arbitrary interference with his privacy, family, home or correspondence, nor to attacks upon his honour and reputation. Everyone has the right to the protection of the law against such interference or attacks. Well, apparently the NSA might have broken this sacred right to privacy. But sometimes rights need to be broken to provide more security and safety that still benefits the people. One example of why the government had to violate our rights is how Lincoln broke some of our rights during the Civil War era. http://millercenter.org... He had to break some of our rights in order to protect the nation from falling apart. Had he not had to violate some of the human rights and the Constitution, he wouldn't have been able to stop the border state from transferring to the South and they would have gotten a huge advantage and this would have changed America forever. So sometimes it is necessary for the violation of our rights to make way for a more effective long-term protection of our lives. Everyone has the right to the protection of the law against such interference or attacks. Yes, even though sometimes it is necessary for the NSA to do such a thing, we can defend ourselves against them. Here's one way to stop the NSA. http://1.media.collegehumor.cvcdn.com... There are others we can defend ourselves from them to protect our privacy when necessary for us to do so. http://1.bp.blogspot.com... http://vcatoday.org... Then why is the U.S taking matters in their own hands? 1. why not? 2. (above) to protect our lives in a way Why is this horrible breach of the law let through? The means justifies the end. I extend my arguments. Although I want to expound on the fact that if the NSA can prevent terrorist plots and that if there is even a minuscule chance that there could be a terrorist plot, the chance is still there. Just because the chance is really tiny, there will always be the chance of it happening that can be very effective and life-changing. This is why it is worth it. Con has not rebutted my arguments so I ask him these questions: Which is more important: our privacy or our lives? If terrorist plots are still likely to at least occur, should we do nothing about it? Do you value your privacy? If yes, on a scale of 1 to 10, how much do you value your privacy? What do you believe is more important than your privacy? Which is more important to you: security or privacy? I expect why Con chose his answers for these questions. I would like to thank Con for this wonderful and thought-promoting debate as I now give this to Con."	PRO	478
478	Se0cac17a-Af1da30f8	What political party has anarchists, Communists, rioters, as backers of its political agenda	"lookingattheissues response: Jan.14Th.2017 on Debate.org,, under Politics to tumeric ( Anti war protests of th 60s ) and who some of the radicals were and where they ended up doing later on in their lives Wellesley College, Hillary Clinton, 1965-1969 1969 Student Commencement Speech by Hillary D. Rodham (now Hillary Rodham Clinton) May 31, 1969 Wellesley College ""......The question about possible and impossible was one that we brought with us to Wellesley four years ago...."" 1965-1969 Democrats, Bill and Hillary Clinton Bill Clinton president Hillary Clinton, First lady,1993-2001 ( Anti war protests of th 60s ) and who some of the radicals were and where they ended up doing later on in their lives. Bill Ayers "" Spouse Bernardine Dohrn Bill Ayers: Bernardine Rae Dohrn (n""e Ohrnstein; born January 12, 1942) is a former leader of the Weather Underground, Bernardine Dohrn - Wikipedia https://en.wikipedia.org...\l "" Bill Ayers William Charles ""Bill"" Ayers is an American elementary education theorist and a former leader in the counterculture movement who opposed US involvement in the Vietnam War. He is known for his 1960s radical activism and his current work in education reform, Bill Ayers""....He is a retired professor in the College of Education at the University of Illinois at Chicago..."" Radicals/democrat professors and teachers in public education __________________________________ SNOPES Commentary WALLSTREET JOURNAL Obama and Ayers Pushed Radicalism On Schools By Stanley Kurtz Updated Sept. 23, 2008 12:01 a.m. ET "" Despite having authored two autobiographies, Barack Obama has never written about his most important executive experience. From 1995 to 1999, he led an education foundation called the Chicago Annenberg Challenge (CAC), and remained on the board until 2001. The group poured more than $100 million into the hands of community organizers and radical education activists....."" __________________________________ Confirmed: Bill Ayers Hosted a Fundraiser for Obama /tipsheet/tipsheet/guybenson Guy Benson | Posted: Nov 30, 2011 ""......there's the pesky fact that Obama and Ayers served together on the board of the Woods Fund for three years""and continued to do so even after Ayers was quoted in the New York Times fondly recalling his days as a bomber, and despairing that he hadn't ""done more."" (This quote, the Obama fact sheet reminds us, comes from an interview that just happened to be published on 9/11""Ayers had made the incendiary remarks earlier. I don't know about you, but that makes me feel a lot better). The funds Obama and Ayers helped control at the Woods Foundation funneled thousands of dollars into both Khalidi's organization and the now-infamous Trinity United Church of Christ..."" Reverent J. Wright Obama's pastor for 20 Years, said, "" No,No, not God Bless America, but God Damn America....."" And which political party did these radicals belong to, The democrat party."	PRO	479
479	S1b21a2f2-A21240168	Free University Education	This debate should be impossible to accept, please state your interest in the comments section if you would like to accept this debate. I, as Con, will argue that university education should not be free (i.e university courses are paid for entirely by the student or on his/her behalf, whether by upfront payment or a student loan). Pro will argue that university should be free, which is to say that the student does not pay any of the financial cost for his/her university course. Burden of Proof is shared. Definitions University: 'a high-level educational institution in which students study for degrees and academic research is done.' (1) Free: 'without cost or payment' (2) Rules / structure R1: Acceptance R2: Arguments R3: Rebuttals R4: Rebuttals No semantics No trolling No acceptance without requesting participation in the comments (1) Google: 'Define university' (2) Google: 'Define free'	CON	480
480	Sb1cf8ab-A68bfaa1d	Direct popular vote should replace the electoral college in U.S. presidential elections.	"A few observations: 1) My opponent failed to realize the U.S. is a democratic republic many times. 2) My opponent failed to discern the difference between a democratic republic and a republic. 3) My opponent has confused the Senate with the Electoral College. 4) My opponent confused individuals with states. 5) My opponent never refuted the fact that the voices weren't proportional. 6) If my opponent had taken the time to fully read my case, he would have realized that I showed in each of my points how the Direct Popular Vote fixes the problem. 7) My opponent argues distortion is good. I argue distortion in elections is bad. 8) My opponent still fails to list a single, real, non-theoretical negative impact of democracy. 9) Equality of states is guaranteed by the Senate, not by elections. 10) Electoral College is disproportional, Direct Popular Vote is proportional. 11) My opponent agrees the Electoral College has flaws. To finally clarify the debate: My opponent argued that I never showed how the Direct Popular Votes fixes these distortions. Here are my quotes from Round 1: ""Direct Popular vote repairs this distortion by creating an even playing field and placing every vote value at the same value: One."" ""Direct popular vote would solve this rare problem by placing the power of the election back into the hands of the people for which it was intended, rather than keeping it in the hands of the few."" ""The direct popular vote would fix this discrepancy by making voting power equal across the nation and allowing candidates to address the nation, not just a few states."" I clearly showed how the Direct Popular Votes fixes all distortions. My opponent apparently did not read my cases through. I would encourage each of the voters to read the entirety of the debate as always. I realize the debate is quite long so I thank you for reading it. I urge an affirmative ballot today."	PRO	481
481	S1db3eaf8-A6b2e6ada	Individuals have a right to the experience of higher education	There is no right to the university experience. University life is not used as the previous argument would suggest. University life is often about alcohol first, education second. Self­knowledge and genuine wisdom come from study and reflection. This can be done anywhere, not just in a university. There is no fundamental right of individuals to be allowed to take four years free of charge to learn new skills that will benefit them or teach them how to be better citizens. The state’s duty is to provide a baseline of care, which in the case of education secondary school more than provides. If individuals want more they should pay for it themselves.  	CON	482
482	S15cbc009-A30fe6ca2	The US should Ensure Access to Quality Education For Everyone	You are all straight A students, I'm sure. You may or may not work hard to achieve this; that's irrelevant. The fact is that no matter how hard you work, education levels are almost always determined only by how rich you are. Suppose your had little money. You are very smart, but due to your family's financial situation, you are forced to attend a public school. Enter the Fool, as we will call him. His family is rich, and can afford to send him places you yourself can't go. Instead of going to a public school, he is sent to a private boarding school in Switzerland. He promptly starts bullying, abusing his rights, and not learning a bit; he can do this with little consequences, because his parents are major benefactors to the school board. After all, if we see what the board is thinking, we would simply see... ka-ching! -Criteria) Equal potential for learning for everyone Equal consequences for everyone Equal rewards for everyone -Thesis Pro) The US ought to ensure student access to a quality education. A) Those who are rich and fools can pay for a private school, whereas some genius born to a poor family may not have such privileges. This is unfair because genius' abilities should be nurtured, not the rich fool's. The fool needs to get through lower classes before going to higher. B) There is significant racial segregation in many public schools at lunch etc; according to a teenager's experiences summarized at http://thisibelieve.org... 2011, segregation will be decreased because everyone has the same knowledge. C) Your education depends on your knowledge. Edu should follow CDC (Credit by Demonstrated Competence.) http://www.cod.edu... 2011 This is equal education... when the same knowledge related system determines placement. Clearly, the US ought to ensure student access to a quality education, because those who are rich can afford better edu. than poor otherwise, because this would ultimately eliminate racial segregation, and finally, because advancement in a certain subject should depend solely on individual knowledge of it. If you were poor and smart, would you like some theoretical rich idiot to take your education?	PRO	483
483	S99e6abf2-Aab7a0b6	What to study in college & why? [Career Challenge]	"Final Greetings Hello again, my audience. Kleptin, I greet you too. This argument will be my final stretch to justify myself. I will remind us all about the purpose of this debate. In addition, I will expose unmistakable flaws in my opponent’s argument. Another thing I would like to mention in a section is my trustworthiness on information. I have no plans to disappoint you, for you are my audience. I treasure your decisions to vote justly. Section 1: What I represent in this debate My opponent mislabeled me as providing “unfounded optimism,” in my last argument. What I truly represent is a believe that “limits can be exceeded,” & “You can live your American Dream.” My audience, each one of you has the right to be pompous, & worthy of excellence. I give you a diverse grouping of study fields, which is my pursuit to starting you somewhere on your career search. Remember, work is “enslavement,” if there isn’t a passion for it. You must first love it in order for “success” to follow. Section 2: What my opponent represents in this debate My opponent openly admits to being engulfed in a theme of “practicality.” That is bad. No, that is sinful. “Practicality” is a grounded concept, and is completely the opposite of “shooting for the stars!” What Kleptin wants you to understand at a subconscious level; is that the economy decides what fields are best to get into. You don’t get to decide what “fits you,” rather “practicality” dictates your fate. Guess what, practicalities have a main objective of making you equal to the rest. You, my audience, deserve to be special. That is why, for this debate, “practicality is a sin.” Section 3: A parable & a quote Matthew 5:14-15 — Lamp on a Stand “You are the light of the world. A city on a hill cannot be hidden. Neither do people light a lamp and put it under a bowl. Instead they put it on its stand, and it gives light to everyone in the house.” For my viewers should be the light of this world, choosing careers that excel them, not hinder them. Do not let my opponent cast a shadow of mediocrity over you. “For everything that lives is holy, life delights in life.""~William Blake My audience will not summit to blue-collared jobs, for they have greater worth beyond their knowledge. Therefore I say to you, listen to me for I know your worth. My opponent sees the society, yet is blind to the individual. His ideology is only to strengthen communism in this country. The people aren’t slaves; don’t offer brilliant minds such “slave” jobs as options. Section 4: Opponent’s invalid information, fear tactics, & faulty accusations Accusation of false career information (Massage Therapist): I heavily refuse to say I was a liar, for I am not. One can still enter the field and make $50,000, but it depends on how you enter it. This website will show the different branches in this occupation, and proves that my statement is justifiable. http://www.indeed.com... Invalid Information: Continuing with my opponent’s attacks, he provides invalid information to the audience. He states further careers in VIOLATION of laws in round 1. If my opponent argues that it applied only to study fields, he fails to oblige by that too. My opponent NEVER LISTED STUDY FIELDS, but CAREER PATHS! He failed to acknowledge the difference, which practically makes his whole argument on a shaky foundation. Any further career listings past the mark of 9 are INVALIDATED! THIS PUTS HIS WHOLE CREDIBILITY IN QUESTION! Follow the laws, or the laws will bite back! Fear Tactics: My opponent makes this assumption that the audience is not “special enough.” He relies on practicality because he believes you are all mediocre. He instills fear of my listed career options; by stress value, education requirements, and claimed “practicality.” Do not fear my career options for attempting to reach for greater things. What you should fear folks, is the simplicity of his first 5 career picks. Section 5: Glorification of my choices The career choices I listed are healthy by its diversity. I considered that the audience will be mixed with all types of views, that is why I listed what I listed. I was giving all of you a taste of something from each STUDY FIELD. Even from the start, I stated that furthering your research is a must, for I don’t want to overwhelm you all. Please consider my though process, for it was meant to expand your wings. Section 6: Shaming of my opponent’s career choices The career choices my opponent listed are sickly by singularity. Kleptin focused too intensely on career paths that can all fit in “one” study field. I am excluding the ones I favored, for they were sound. Even though they were sound, they too, could be categorized in 1 or 2 study fields. My opponent wasn’t clearly thinking about the diversity of the readers, nor the laws, but I do. Final Goodbyes My viewers, I need not speak to your brain, for I truly want to win over your hearts. For your logical side can choke your happiness, but your heart seeks pleasure in life…so let me in. Let my words be wise to you, that seekers of greatness will excel over seekers of stability. Remember, my audience, for my opponent has already built upon a shaky foundation from the start. He has nowhere to turn with his speech, lest he start over. For whatever he speaks about “can” be highly fallible. Failure to follow the laws of round 1, is like walking on quicksand. To my audience, I kiss you goodbye & massive luck on your career search. To my opponent, I hug you; for I feel your anxiety to speak your last breathe. I hope I persuaded you, my readers, to submit to my wisdom. Good luck Kleptin, may your last, & future debates, be blessed for you. I rest my case. (As Promised) Cited Sources: http://pathosethoslogos.com... ~ my argument’s values are in descending order: 3. Logos, 2. Ethos, 1. Pathos http://www.aact.org... ~lessons for actors http://www.aerospace.org... ~Learn about the awesomeness of aerospace http://managementstudyguide.com... ~learn a little more of financial management http://www.naset.org... ~A community that values teachers that help the special needs children http://www.writerscafe.org... ~be free when it comes to literature http://www.medicinenet.com... ~ learn more about the health benefits & structure of massage therapy http://www.officer.com... ~before you can defend this nation, read up on what cops recently do in the news/ plus other info. http://www.the-scientist.com... ~A passion for science can never be quenched, indulge your brain in this magazine http://www.idsa.org... ~ the creative minds shall not be silenced!"	CON	484
484	Sc7831446-A6b2e6ada	Individuals have a right to the experience of higher education	There is no right to the university experience. University life is not used as the previous argument would suggest. University life is often about alcohol first, education second. Self­knowledge and genuine wisdom come from study and reflection. This can be done anywhere, not just in a university. There is no fundamental right of individuals to be allowed to take four years free of charge to learn new skills that will benefit them or teach them how to be better citizens. The state’s duty is to provide a baseline of care, which in the case of education secondary school more than provides. If individuals want more they should pay for it themselves.  	CON	485
485	Sac752d39-Ad62a587c	Parents/guardians should be in control of their child(ren)'s education, not the state.	"I'll follow Pro's lead and offer rebuttals right up to the conclusion. I. Pro does not acknowledge or respond to my rebuttals regarding the Romeike family. I will present the rebuttals I made, and why his responses are not sufficient. In Round 2, I state ""Pro's first point, that the status quo includes persecution, has no relevance to the resolution. The ""persecution"" of those that home school does not make home schooling correct any more than the persecution of Christians makes Christianity correct. It is a logical fallacy."" Pro's response in the next round simply states ""The persecution is relevant. I have shown you an example of a state that does not allow parental control of education, and how that state abuses that power."" Pro, however, fails to state why the German government's actions are actually abusive, and more importantly, he fails to state why that ""abuse"" supports the notion that ""Parents/guardians should be in control of their child(ren)'s education, not the state."" II. Pro ignores the main point of the home schooling statistic. ""[A] significant proportion of home schooling families are religious"" is not the main point. As I stated in Round 3, ""The fact that it is considered an important factor [in home schooling], even if not the most important, clearly shows that religion holds a strong influence over these decisions."" Religion is inherently contradictory toward education, in fields such as science (evolution) and history (Creationism), as well as in the humanities (defined gender roles). Meanwhile, Pro states private schools are known for quality education, but has only pointed out statistics about home schooling in his arguments thus far. His repetition of the idea that home education has many benefits does not respond to my rebuttals. III. The statistic cited by Pro about voter turnout in this last round is irrelevant. Every eligible voter CAN vote; the fact that not all do only speaks to the point that they do not wish to say anything, rather than that they cannot speak. The point about not having direct input into the public education is completely untrue, with a plethora of parent organizations that serve to offer just that. One such organization is the PTA, which in 2013 boasted 4,266,785 members (Source: Page 13 http://www.pta.org...). Pro repeatedly states that school choice is vital, but does not state why. IV. The issue of this being not allowed was a difference in interpretation, as I presumed that ""Standard"" meant rebuttals in the third round only. I see Pro's meaning now, so I will agree that it is allowable. Regardless, Pro has the burden of proof to show that school choice and variety are in any way beneficial, and he has not shown that they are; thus this argument carries no more weight than if I were to simply state that variety places a great strain on the educational system and damages everyone in it. A. Pro admits to making a mistake with his math; as his statistical math cannot be completely trusted when he has sources, he surely cannot be trusted when making statistical claims he provides no support for, with regards to private school college acceptance rates. B. Again, Pro continues the trend of saying that my arguments are invalid without giving reasoning; in this case, stating that I'm wrong that giving the state power to control abuse gives the state power to control the whole education, without providing reasoning against my claim. Pro makes a point that damages his own position in stating ""Parents have been indoctrinating their children into their religious beliefs for centuries with or without the help of home education"", because it clearly shows the tendency of indoctrination by parents to be true, while the state education is secular and does not force a viewpoint in the context of the United States. I have ignored private school no more than Pro has, who has, I emphasize, provided no sources in support of private schooling, only home schooling. The ""state's duty to interfere"" in cases of child abuse is just that: interfering. Therefore, either the point about abuse must be accepted as valid, or the state has a right to interfere with a child's education, nullifying the resolution. The resolution contains that parents/guardians ""control"", and explicitly NOT the state. Any sort of state control, even over abuse, nullifies the resolution. Pro also argues that ""child abuse... is not directly caused by parent choice of education"". I never said it was. All I stated was that choice facilitates abuse; it makes it easier to commit. C. Again, Pro ignores my point that home schooling achievement in the U.S. is lower than public school achievement abroad. Meanwhile, Pro accuses me of ignoring private schooling when he in fact ignored it as well. With regards to ""...why would anyone ever pay to send their child to private school when public school is free?"", that doesn't prove anything about quality. People in the U.S. pay for bottled water when they could easily take free water and put it into their own bottle; it doesn't mean that bottled water is better. D. Pro did in fact drop the point that skimming occurs, which is detrimental to the poor. His point that it is not the source of inequality is irrelevant, as he does not contest that it skimming is indeed detrimental to the poor. Conclusion: I have had many points sustained, such as those of abuse, religion, and skimming, that demonstrate that the state should indeed have control over the educational system, and all have been well-cited and documented. Pro, on the other hand, has many arguments that he offers no supporting evidence for, and some of the ones he does have been completely rebutted. As well, Pro attempts to shift the argument away from the core by accusing me of being against private schooling altogether. According to the resolution, I do not hold that; I only hold that the state should ultimately be in charge of regulating those private schools and admittance to them. The same holds for home schooling and charter schooling and schools for the disabled. Pro has not offered enough evidence to conclusively prove that ""Parents/guardians should be in control of their child(ren)'s education, not the state"", and substantial evidence to the contrary is present; as such, he has not met the burden of proof and the argument should go to Con. I thank my opponent for the opportunity to debate, and I enjoyed the chance to research a perspective on a topic that I hadn't considered previously."	CON	486
486	S7064c844-Af98eed8b	DDD's 30th debate: Physical Education SHOULD be a requirement in schools	"Thanks, DDD. Procrastination has trapped me again, so, like last round I will only be presenting a single contention. Sorry that this had to happen twice in a row... C2) Schools have limited budgets The purpose of a school is to provide its students with an education; thus, a school's academic functions should obviously be prioritized above all its other functions. With that in mind, we can observe that the majority of public schools have very limited budgets, so for *any* of that funding to go towards non-academic functions, the said function must not only be somewhat inexpensive, but it must also provide a significant benefit to students. Extending C1, we see that PE classes do not provide any significant benefit, and if we analyze the costs of the average PE program, we see that it is not inexpensive at all, with all the spatial requirements of a gym and the necessary equipment and staff. Take the example of one Oregon school district which had to deal with the consequences of implementing mandatory physical education classes: ""To meet the state mandate, the district would need to hire more than 66 physical education teachers for the elementaries, alone... In addition, there is not enough space at the schools to accommodate the additional physical education classes,"" (http://www.oregonlive.com...). Simply put, mandatory physical education is not economical-- there are many more important things that schools need to be spending their limited funding on, like textbooks, curriculum development, and building expansion. This contention, like C1, is enough on its own to negate the resolution. Back to Pro."	CON	487
487	S54bdc9d5-Ae8bbd039	College athletes should not be paid.	"First, I will defend my statements, and then I will refute my opponent's cases. My opponent says that just because sports are a way to advertise for a school, that they are just as important as academics. I would like to remind him of something he still hasn't responded to. Sports ultimately don't matter. At the end of the day, all that matters is what contributions the college makes to the world. Additionally, my opponent's argument against paying the ""students that are making a difference"" is that they are otherwise benefiting because of the money the sports programs bring in, but that is not a fair statement. For starters, I have already showed con that 90% of athletic programs lose money, which I will certainly come back to later in the my statement. Also, con has no evidence that other students are ""benefiting from this pay"" the way that they should be. My opponent maintains that athletes have the tougher time because they have to juggle academics and sports and that they cannot get a full time job, so they should get paid. I remind con that OTHER sports, whose athletes WOULDN'T get paid, also have to do this! And added to that, students that are on scholarship have tutors and other resources available to them for free that other non-athlete students, and athletes that are not a part of football or basketball, would not have. I contend that the argument that says ""athletes should get paid because they don't have time to have a job"" has been completely disproven at this point for a few reasons. -If you are going to give SOME athletes compensation for the fact that they can't get a job, you have to give it to ALL of the hard working athletes with long hours, ie swimmers, volleyball players, etc. My opponent needs to respond in respect to the fact that other sports require grueling hours, and that they would not be compensated AT ALL in many cases. I understand that you think that they would get less money, but often they would get absolutely none. -Athletes that would get paid (football, basketball players) are provided with tutors and stuff of the sort for free if they are on scholarship, and if they need it. Swimmers, because they are likely not given as much scholarship money, do not have that luxury, and as STUDENT ATHLETES THAT JUGGLE BOTH SCHOOL WORK AND THEIR SPORT, they wouldn't be getting compensated. Also, non-athletes would not be provided with the free tutoring that ""major"" athletes are given. -Scholarships. I will give specifics on this later. -My opponent doesn't address the fact that, with con's logic, because they are unable to get jobs, students should ALSO be compensated. -The fact that because high school students are also forfeiting the opportunity to get a job, under con's logic, they would additionally need to be compensated. I will come back to this later in my argument. Because of all these reasons, the argument that the athletes in big sports (football, basketball) should be paid on basis of the fact that they cannot get a job does not hold any weight. There are plenty of others in the same situation that wouldn't be getting compensated for their lack of a job, so this argument does not make sense. My opponent also concedes the fact that it doesn't matter what percentage of students are getting athletic scholarships, because we are only talking about athletes. My opponent says that just because writing for the school newspaper doesn't make as much money, that students shouldn't be paid for it in his scenario. However, they ARE making money for the school, and by the logic of his argument that ""they make revenue for the school, so they deserve a cut,"" other students should be paid all the same. Academics are important too. I'd like to point out that my opponent did not once use the word ""scholarship"" in the last round, even though I provided substantial evidence that the students in football and basketball and other sports where the students would get paid ALREADY are compensated in their scholarships. And in addition to that, because they are getting compensated and swimmers are not, why should football players deserve more money in replacement for a job? They are already essentially getting paid. Because I have used trusted sources to show that students that would be getting paid under con's plan (football and basketball players) are already getting paid, it is necessary for my opponent to provide a counter argument, or the point goes to pro. I am quite confused what con means when he says that high school students cannot maintain jobs! It is a FACT that many high school students have part time jobs. Because high school athlete's inability to get one of these jobs, shouldn't they TOO be compensated? If they bring in money, they deserve a piece of the pie. My opponent says that my statistics fail to take into account the advertising the athletic departments bring in, but uses no evidence to back up the claim. Additionally, because that theoretical money would be coming in from advertising, they could not have it specifically earmarked to pay athletes. If there were money there, the money would be going back into the school somehow, and it is quite doubtful that the athletes would ever get any of it anyway. Now that I have defended my cases, I shall refute my opponent's. My opponent does not address my assertion that it is not an illegal boycott being made, and that it is just a rule. Also, con does not address the fact that because sports are an extracurricular, it is the athlete's choice to do it or not. They go into the season not expecting to be paid, and because of that, it shouldn't be considered a job. My opponent then uses an EXTREME hyperbolic statement that I do not appreciate. ""However if a serial killer where to kill someone and not be caught would that change the fact that it is not illegal? Absolutely not! Just because something is happening that is illegal doesn't mean that it should continue happening!"" And I'm not doing this to correct con's spelling, but just to clarify, the statement should read ""However if a serial killer [were] to kill someone..."" His argument that compares a serial killer to the NCAA is preposterous. Obviously, if we knew where the serial killer was, we would arrest them! You cannot compare a serial killer to the current status of not paying student athletes. OBVIOUSLY, it would be wrong to not imprison a serial killer, con... but you cannot make a comparison between the two situations. The NCAA has made this rule in broad daylight, and it is widely accepted as an approved practice. So please, refrain from comparing ""A person who attacks and kills victims one by one in a series of incidents""(1) to the people that monitor college sports. Because of all these reasons, I urge a vote for pro. (1) http://www.thefreedictionary.com..."	PRO	488
488	S1db3eaf8-A479a7253	The cost to the state is far too great to sustain universal free university education	The system of paying for universal healthcare, education, pensions, etc. threatens to bankrupt countries. The cost of paying for free university education is ruinously high.[1] In the OECD 1.9% of GDP, a third of education expenditure, is spent on tertiary education.[2] For countries to survive, they must rethink what they can afford to provide freely to citizens. It seems fair that all states should offer access to their citizens to primary and secondary education opportunities. University, on the other hand, is not essential to life in the same way. People can be functional and responsible citizens without it. For this reason, the state must consider university in the same way it does any non­essential service; people may pay for it if they wish to partake, but it is not an entitlement owed by the state. [1] Ullman, Ben. 2007. “Should Higher Education Really Be Free For All?”. The New Statesman. Available: http://www.newstatesman.com/blogs/campus­radicals/2007/01/higher­education­free­students [2] ‘What proportion of national wealth is spent on education’, Education at a glance, OECD, 2011, p.225, https://www.oecd.org/edu/skills-beyond-school/48630884.pdf	PRO	489
489	Sc2f75af9-A7515220	The Electoral College should be abolished in favor of the popular vote/run-off system	"Thanks, Pro. I'll refute your arguments in the next round. I debated this issue months ago, so I just copy/pasted my case from that previous round. I negate the resolution. Observation 1: The Electoral System in the U.S. has worked well for centuries, there needs to be an extremelycompelling reason to re-form our entire election process. We ought not reform legal precedent based off status quo unless we can conclude that A) The status quo has a problem, B) The problem will not go away by itself, C) changing the status quo will fix this problem, and D) the unintended problems from changing the status quo have been evaluated and considered of less significance than the current problem. If my Opponents arguments do not meet all these criteria, you vote Con by default. Observation two: The resolution calls for a comparitive analysis between DPV and Electoral Vote. Luckily for me, my system (the electoral college) is already in effect, so I dont need to argue one. However, since my Opponents position is advocating a change in the status quo, he must present a coherent voting system in replacement. This means, essentially, that if we want to affirm this resolution we need to have some framework of what our new voting system ought to be. (IE, are votes counted state by state still? Will minoirity presidents still go to the house of represntatives? Will all votes still be taken on the same day? ECT.) C1: The EC preserves a moderate government. Joy McAfee writes[1]: ""Without a two-party competition, it would almost be impossible to win a true sizable plurality of at least forty percent. Compromises and concessions would vanish, and a candidate could represent all fifty states by winning the vote with a minimal plurality. True representation would cease to exist because it would not be needed to win. Instead, a minority party could represent a select group with large numbers and disregard the many important compromises needed to gain these votes under a two party system.” Instead of the landslide victories requires by the electoral college (Half of the electoral votes, plus one) with DPV the winning candidate is whoever gains the most votes--even if that doesn't constitute a majority. The minority president disadvantage is more likely to occur under DPV than the status quo. C2: The Electoral College provides a good focus for candidates. The Heritage Foundation writes[2]: "" Democrats would almost certainly spend most of their time in the large population centers in California and New York. Republicans would campaign in the South and Midwest. Large cities would be focused on almost exclusively as the candidates seek to turn out as many votes as possible in ""their"" region of the country. Small states, rural areas, and sparsely populated regions would find themselves with little to no voice in presidential selection. In this scenario, a handful of states (or heavily populated cities) win, while the remaining states and less-populated areas suffer significantly”""Further, battle-ground states are actually a good thing. Consider that the reason those states are battle ground is because they are moderate. Campaigning in swing states forces candidates to have more center-ist platforms. A candidate advocating the execution of abortionists, Christ in school books, secession of Texas (*cough* Rick Perry), War in Iran, and the Federal Marriage amendment would probably win in the South; however they sure as hell wouldn't win in any other area of the country. (I know, the example is meant to be extreme. However under DPV conservatives campaign to conservatives, and liberals to liberals. The group polarization affect tells us that their policies would become more conservative/liberal when they're only around their own kind. EC forces candidates to appeal to moderates) With the EC candidates in order to win must take either a center-right or center-left platform or else they're lose. Recall also that there's a swing state in every region (Michigan, Wisconsin, Ohio and Iowa in the Midwest, Virginia, N.C. and Florida in the South, New Hampshire in New England and New Mexico, Arizona, and Oregon in the West) so the electoral college ensures that regional concerns are accounted for, preventing candidates from just going to areas with large populations and pressing for every vote the can as happens in a direct popular vote scenario. C3: The Electoral College respects the states. DPV takes away the voice of the small states. Let's be honest, do we really believe that under a system of DPV states lke Wyoming or the Dakotas are going to have any say at all? Of course not. Here's what CATO institute has to say: “The sole practical effect of [direct election] will be to eliminate the States from their share in the political process. A president so elected may be more likely to pursue national interests at a cost to state or regional concerns because state identities and considerations will no longer matter at all since the states will no longer exist so far as presidential elections go. Such a president might also be likely to pursue policies that enhance or enlarge the scope and power of the federal government.” While direct election may not have strong partisan effects, the further empowering of the federal government and a subsequent increase in its ambit would run counter to the founding aspirations for limited government and individual liberty” If we want to base things just off of population like DPV will, then should we not follow that same line of reasoning and abolish the senate as well? My Opponent needs to show us where the line ought to be drawn in regards to states rights if we abolish the elctoral college. Therefore, you should vote Con. Sources: 1. McAfee, Joy. Cumberland Law Review 2. http://www.heritage.org...; 3. http://www.cato.org..."	CON	490
490	Sc7831446-A479a7253	The cost to the state is far too great to sustain universal free university education	The system of paying for universal healthcare, education, pensions, etc. threatens to bankrupt countries. The cost of paying for free university education is ruinously high.[1] In the OECD 1.9% of GDP, a third of education expenditure, is spent on tertiary education.[2] For countries to survive, they must rethink what they can afford to provide freely to citizens. It seems fair that all states should offer access to their citizens to primary and secondary education opportunities. University, on the other hand, is not essential to life in the same way. People can be functional and responsible citizens without it. For this reason, the state must consider university in the same way it does any non­essential service; people may pay for it if they wish to partake, but it is not an entitlement owed by the state. [1] Ullman, Ben. 2007. “Should Higher Education Really Be Free For All?”. The New Statesman. Available: http://www.newstatesman.com/blogs/campus­radicals/2007/01/higher­education­free­students [2] ‘What proportion of national wealth is spent on education’, Education at a glance, OECD, 2011, p.225, https://www.oecd.org/edu/skills-beyond-school/48630884.pdf	PRO	491
491	Sed52489a-A44eb47ab	University education needs to be capped and more selective	Selective education leads to an unfair bias towards the rich and the middle classes	CON	492
492	Sed52489a-A7c49a3c7	University education needs to be capped and more selective	Wide university education produces a literate, multi-skilled and widely knowledgeable nation	CON	493
493	Sed52489a-Abdb9e110	University education needs to be capped and more selective	Capping admissions is a sub-optimal method of improving the value of university education.	CON	494
494	Sa513ba08-Ad7caebad	Exams Ought to be Abolished from the Education System	This argument will be about abolishing exams in a given education system. Standard DDO conduct applies.	PRO	495
495	Sae9368dd-A5b9a62b8	Education should be Mandated in the United States of America	"As my first opponent on this point is proving unreliable and unsatisfying, I will challenge you directly. First Round is Acceptance and First Arguments. Logical Fallacies will not be permitted. As I have already made this debate once before, I'm just going to recycle my opening arguments. The United States was formed on the basis of the philosophy of the likes of John Locke, William Blackstone, And Adam Smith. Namely, That the people and the Individual is far more intelligent and important than the greater whole of society and its contract. This is especially true in the case of the management of familial and community units. However, These ideas are falling by the wayside. Nowhere is this more felt than in our public school system. Every human being has a right to an education. The government has seen fit to interpret this as meaning that every human MUST be forced to get a government provided education. There have been few tragedies that fly as directly into the face of our principles as this abomination. First, The government is abusing a system meant to help those with fewer resources. The public school system was never meant to be the main source of education in America. It was meant to supply poor families with a more affordable option. The rest of the schools were built and operated privately, By those wishing to progress the human race. However, Over time, The government began to create and enforce more regulations upon the curriculum of these schools, And the schools that were accepting public funds (which should never have happened in the first place) became dependent on the funds provided by the government, Which then dictated what could or could not be taught by these schools. This has lead to a population of government worshippers who believe that every problem the United States has faced has been solved by government, From slavery and racism to the great depression. This could not be less true, And is leading us down a very dark path of big government movements like the Socialist state dreams of Ocasio-Cortez and other campus radicals who have been brainwashed into believing the trash spouted by the government about such matters as the role of our Founding Fathers, Of Racism, And of the New Deal. One wonders why the products of our government run school system are supporting the growth of our government. They have been turned into Alinsky""s useful idiots, Serving the system they were trained to blindly follow and strengthen. Secondly, This leads to the death of choice. Now, Every single American citizen is forced by law under penalty of fines and the Social Services to attend an educational course for ""between 175 and 180 days of school and/or between 900 and 1, 000 hours of instructional time per year, Depending on the grade level (Center For Public Education). "" This is one of the most obvious examples of subjugation that has ever been present in the United States. With these mandates, The government is implying that they, As the ""ruling body, "" know what is best for the population and that they should therefore be able to force their ideas upon us. It""s disgusting, And is an obvious violation of the underlying and fundamental principles of the United States of America. There should certainly be trust in the ability of parents to choose what is best for their children, But this idea is being ridiculed and destroyed by the government. Why? Because, As said by Brutus in the Anti-federalist number one, ""it is a truth confirmed by the unerring experience of ages, That every man, And every body of men, Invested with power, Are ever disposed to increase it, And to acquire a superiority over every thing that stands in their way. "" This is also backed up by Abigail Adams in her assertion that ""Remember all Men would be tyrants if they could, "" in her Braintree letter to John Adams on March 31, 1776. The most well known statement of this type is ""Power tends to corrupt and absolute power corrupts absolutely, "" which was written by lord Acton. There is an obvious solution to this problem. The Common Core government program must be overturned and replaced by independent and privatised schools. We must have faith that there will always be Individuals such as Benjamin Franklin and Abraham Lincoln, Who adhere to the principle of scholar empowered learning. Anyone who refuses to attend a school should have that choice, As those people exist now and are simply a drain on resources and serve as distractions to those scholars who are willing to learn. A choice based system would eliminate the need for internal the discipline issues of today""s school systems. This would also free Individuals from large taxes going toward indoctrination programs and drains such as those mentioned above. This system would force schools to compete for attendance like businesses, Ensuring that only the best would thrive, As the Free Market was meant to do. Of course, This will lead to more uneducated members of society who refused to take the initiative of education. Those people exist now, Though. They go through the Public School System refusing to retain knowledge and acting as a drain on resources, Tax dollars, And time. A choice system would only make these people easier to notice. One might also object that people would not be able to learn the difference between right and wrong, As is taught in Kindergarten and Elementary schools. However, With a choice system, Parents would still have the prerogative to teach right and wrong, Which would also be reinforced by church and normal social interactions. The parents who would not have that prerogative would be the same ones who don""t know either, Which would make no difference. In the end, The only downsides are negated by the fact that they are also the pitfalls facing us now, Whereas the merits of this proposed system are self evident: increased freedom, Better education, And a sense of independence from the government which is healthy in a Free Society. Works Cited Gatto, John. ""How Public Education Cripples Our Kids, And Why. "" The Natural Child Project. Https://www. Naturalchild. Org/articles/guest/john_gatto2. Html. Accessed 15 October 2018. ""What is School Choice? "" ed Choice. Https://www. Edchoice. Org/school-choice/what-is-school-choice/. Accessed 15 October 2018. Hull, Jim. ""Time in school: How does the U. S. Compare? "" Center for Public Education. Http://www. Centerforpubliceducation. Org/research/time-school-how-does-us-compare. Accessed 15 October 2018. Adams, Abigail. Letter to John Adams, Braintree March 31, 1776. Brutus. Anti-Federalist Brutus I, October 18, 1787. Lord Acton. Letter to Bishop Creighton, 1887."	CON	496
496	S1f23449c-Ae1cd1815	Improving Education Will do Nothing To Solve Economic Woes	"Your rebuttal to my first point is excellent. I agree that it is more on the part of the one's who view who have never contributed to improvements that are the reason for the ill perception of the unemployed. That is neither here nor there though. I am confused, how can an economy falter when it cannot not even be agreed what a good economy is? A good economy for some would still be a bad economy for others. Therefore, wouldn't the judgement of the quality of an economy be subjective? Yes, you can measure an economy based on metrics such as GDP, but does that measure the quality or sustainability of the economy? I do not appreciate predictions based on gambling. Your rebuttal to my second point ignores what I wrote. The scheming of one may put the rest in Hell. Therefore it is the education of one that causes hell for all others. There is a reason intellectuals flock to the least oppressive country at any given time. At least, any scholar that does research on topics that may be uncomfortable for the entities to hear. Take the oil business, the research is constantly accused of being bias, this is in due in part to buy-offs on the part of the companies and researchers. Your rebuttal to my third point is good. Overall, the education of a country is connected to the wealth of the country, the higher the education one has, the least likely there is for acquiescing for money on the part of the scholar. When, in the future, education becomes more rigorous then it is now, as is evidenced by trends from Greece to Modern times, then I would think that there would be less weakness in morals and ethics, and less ""faltering"" of the economy. I hope I have addressed all of your points thoroughly and without bias."	CON	497
497	S15cbc009-A4ba3ac3d	The US should Ensure Access to Quality Education For Everyone	"“Firstly, I would ask my opponent to clarify the above statement; I belive you have contradicted yourself... correct me if I'm wrong.” Let me clarify then. It doesn’t matter if you are rich or poor but rather how hard you work that determines your outcome in life. And that even if all students were equal in wealth the key determinant for their success would be effort and of course natural ability. Wealth alone is not enough to succeed in education or life in general. “Even if they amassed all of their enormous ""whining"" energy, they still would have difficulty amassing tuition for a good school.” Of course, but life isn’t fair. I would say that an egalitarian life would be boring and de-motivational. If everything was fair and everyone was equal then what would be the point in striving to do your best or trying to overcome your circumstances? Not everyone sits there content to complain about their circumstances and actually do something to achieve their goals, here’s some examples: http://www.horatioalger.com... http://www.horatioalger.com... “My opponent inquires about my precise proposition regarding how to make education equal. I propose that it be illegal to be transferred to any higher educational institution before you demonstrate exemplary performance in government and/or public institutions. After this goal is attained, there are two possible courses of action; firstly, if you are rich, you would then be allowed to transfer to a more advanced institution, payed for with the family's money. Alternately, you could stay in the public system. If you are non-rich, you would receive a full government scholarship that would cover tuition as well as basic tuition costs.” I’m assuming here that your proposal is covering post-secondary education, i.e. University. It seems that what you’re saying is that everyone must attend public primary education. And, that before attending University the student must demonstrate exemplary performance in public school. Then the non-rich would get a scholarship to attend the University of their choice. I hope I didn’t mangle the proposal too badly. So, given that what I think you mean is what you mean then the non-rich already are offered scholarships, grants, and loans to attend University and is even a part of some Universities’ diversity goals. Much like desegregation, schools see diverse economic backgrounds as benefit to the overall educational environment. It would seem, then, that the only difference between your proposal and current reality is that in order to get into University students would have to be exemplary. I would argue that even C students should be afforded the opportunity since C students may have the ability but not the drive in primary education but could be driven to excel in post-secondary. “Education is related to de-segregation. Earlier in our history, the federal government had desegregated education. Why? If segregation had nothing to do with education, why would the government intervene in this respect?” We both know why the government intervened – there was a huge disparity in quality of education between the segregated schools and segregation was just wrong. I’m not even arguing that it shouldn’t have been done. What I’m saying is the law of diminishing returns becomes apparent after 40+ years. Are you proposing further desegregation? And if so, how would this significantly impact educational outcomes? “I concede this point. However, as educational reform is necessary, the states should respond in accordance to this policy. Also, the tenth amendment states that the freedoms are reserved by ""...the people."" I think you would agree that the majority of the US population fit the non-rich category. If it is the will of the people, or if it benefits the people, it should be passed into federal law.” Which is it? You say the states should respond but that it should be passed into federal law. This is precisely why Alexander Tytler, in the 18th century said, “""A democracy cannot exist as a permanent form of government. It can only exist until the majority discovers it can vote itself largess out of the public treasury. After that, the majority always votes for the candidate promising the most benefits with the result the democracy collapses because of the loose fiscal policy ensuing, always to be followed by a dictatorship, then a monarchy."" Just because the majority thinks everything should be free, fair and equal does not make it right or affordable. CONCLUSION Equality in wealth is not only unattainable but undesirable. In order to achieve this end would require depriving others of their wealth which is antithetical to fairness and equality. I would offer that equal opportunity should exist as enshrined in the Declaration of Independence but using the Federal treasury to do so is the wrong approach. Your station in life is influenced by external forces but your path is ultimately in your own hands. Thank you. I am waiting eagerly for your response."	CON	498
498	S863dddcf-A1fe442a1	Formal education (K-12) ought to be compulsory in the United States	"I thank Con for his response. :) PRO 1A 1. Living wage is the wage it takes to survive. If a student without a diploma can't earn a living wage, then you vote Pro because I give more people diplomas. Clear link. 2. Con ignores all data I provide in my 1A that gives me a big margin of maximizing employment. The US is calibrated to individual rights. The majority can't succeed without the success of the minority. 3. On pro's source: this article lists 25 jobs that don't require a bachelor's, but there are 2 problems with it. 1: It says nothing of a *diploma*. 2: These jobs can't absorb millions of people, or they already would be. Extend my data on average pay from RD 1. 1B 1. Go back to Con discrimination. If we use his own analogy, these students don't choose not to eat—they are denied food. Homeschooling is a perfectly viable way to exercise one's right to not attend compulsory public education while still protecting children who have no stable home or resources available to them. Con's world represents a net loss in rights for people who need the most protection. 2. Con has yet to show us *how* non-compulsory education will maintain equal opportunities. He's said it, but he hasn't warranted it. 3. Con misunderstood my reference to US laws. That was merely an example of the state being able to mandate behavior for the good of all citizens collectively. CE is the same story. 1C 1. How is it that equal educational opportunities will be provided to underserved students outside of CE? If education is voluntary, then it's voluntary. All motivation to provide equal access is eliminated the moment we do something like privatize schools, which is essentially what a voluntary model looks like. 2. Actually, it is the state's job to provide its citizens with basic necessities. The tax dollars that I am referring to are directed towards these students only because CE exists. The whole ""hot meal"" thing is being blown out of proportion by Con, but legislation in all 50 states is what has made it the school system's responsibility. The will of the citizens of this nation is to make the education system a *support* system. 2A 1. This made me laugh. Not only are abstract math concepts integral to the development of problem solving & critical thinking skills, but Con *actually* said that persuasive writing is a useless skill! What is Con doing RIGHT NOW? I do believe he is on a website designed for the sole purpose of writing persuasively. 2. You've given us a claim that education is worthless with no warrants, & then tried to distract us by saying that you don't have to prove yourself universally true. I have yet to see a warrant, though. 3. Extend the standards I quoted. The meat of my argument lies in those warrants. The standards cover *essential* skills, which directly counters the Con advocacy. 2B 1. Con has yet to address the fact that not every child has a parent that is willing or able to fulfill their parental obligations. Since social and life skills are directly tied to successful citizenship & stable individual welfare, the state's obligation is evident. 2. No system is perfect. Con seems to think that I have to eliminate ALL people who don't graduate from high school in order to win this debate. That's not the case. I just have to prove that the benefits outweigh the harms. 3. Con still has yet to warrant how he'll be accessing all of the benefits of a Pro world without using CE. He'll need to do that sometime soon. CON C1 1. I quoted you. You admit you can't prove that education is actually useless. I've given you a block of evidence to the contrary, but apparently we should just believe you anyway. 2. The hot meal thing is provable. First of all, it's the reason that the federal government created the free/reduced lunch program [1]. Not only that, but the world community has already come to the conclusion that schools have an obligation to provide food to their students: ""WFP School Feeding Programmes encourage children to attend school by providing a free nutritious meal…In many cases, this may be the only meal children eat during the day. This simple meal helps children concentrate on their studies & ensures they attend class [2]."" The US is part of this community, & participates in & funds WFP. [1] http://www.fns.usda.gov... [2] http://www2.hawaii.edu... 3. Taking out hot meals doesn't really affect my offense. Education being useless, on the other hand, is key to voting Con. If I prove this claim untrue (which I have), then you can vote Pro on that alone. 4. Moving target, Con. You say in RD 1: ""Compulsory education doesn't serve a meaningful purpose…The only skill education has successfully imparted is obedience & the will to accept authority."" That entire C1 is talking about how *all* CE education is useless. Now, you concede that some education is useful. Which is it? 5. Con does have the obligation to prove CE a flawed system. Again, in RD 1, he says, ""CE makes kids accept being a tool of the working machine…CE fails to educate…CE has dissipated intelligence…CE is purposeless."" He's trying to get you to eliminate a system based on flaws he either can't prove exist, or that have proved fixable. He *must* prove that CE harms outweigh the benefits. C2 1. When do I say schools, teachers, & students are equal? In fact, I've maintained throughout that they aren't, which is why we need CE & the standards movement. I'm working to fix inequality. He's entrenching it. 2. So we both accept that my link is a legit piece of evidence illustrating the essential skills being taught in K-12 education. 3. This basically stated that education is being improved by the standards movement. If education continues to improve as it is now (which researchers predict it will), then the statistical gap between homeschooling & public schooling will disappear. 4. I don't understand how this translated argument gets you any offense. C3 1. ""If we make education voluntary, then maybe the need for a diploma will just go away."" 1: Says who? 2: How many people have to starve & rape the economy before that happens? My crystal ball is currently out of service, so I guess he'll need to consult his. Extend specialization again. The need for more advanced degrees is currently RISING, not falling, & it has more to do with global competition, which Con cannot solve for, than internal employer preference. 2. You didn't cover institutional discrimination at all. You can't. Your advocacy cannot solve for it. Mine does. Also, it doesn't matter who you were addressing; the casualties of adopting your advocacy don't change. Con talks about people who will logically seek out food if they are hungry as if there is always just food laying around for the hungry to eat. Education is the same way. Without available resources, it ain't gonna happen."	PRO	499
499	Se8acb758-A4abb1c8c	Resolved:the Ivy League has lost its prestige and allure as many non-Ivy schools have exceeded them.	"I am in agreement with in many ways. The Ivy League is still highly desirable but I am still higly opposed. Did you know that the Ivy League was orginally founded as a sports league? Now it is supposedly the icon of education. However, the fact that other schools are more inviting and ""accepting"" than many Ivy League schools increases their allurement and decreases the Ivy League's allurement. Exclusivity is often coupled with ignorance. What you are paying for that you are not getting is the best. What you are really getting is all talk and some action. The Ivy League has much to credit to their name but it simply isn't worth the cost. Education is the most overpriced industry in America and teh Ivy League isn't working to make it available to more people than before."	PRO	500
500	S7064c844-A2d181762	DDD's 30th debate: Physical Education SHOULD be a requirement in schools	"I must thank DDD for his patience with me and my procrastination throughout the debate. Hopefully I can make up for it all with this round ^_^ Based on the utility-centered framework of the debate, all I have to do in order to negate the resolution is show that PE classes does not cause enough benefit to society to warrant making PE classes mandatory. == AFF CASE == A1: Obesity Pro argues that because some children are obese, and PE could theoretically help reduce the number of children that are obese, PE should be mandatory in schools. Firstly, I can cross-apply my C1 to show that PE classes do absolutely nothing to reduce obesity rates; most PE classes miss (by quite a large margin) the daily requirement for simply *maintaining* the health of a person of average health, so there is basically no chance that such minimal levels of physical activity would make a significant impact on the health of an already-obese child. Secondly, this argument only supports making PE mandatory for students who are already obese or at risk for being obese, which is less than half of America's child population (http://www.cdc.gov...). In other words, this argument doesn't show why PE should be mandatory for *all* students, as the resolution being debated supports. A2: Academics Pro argues that because physical activity stimulates students' brains and thus improves their academic performance, PE should be made mandatory. First of all, there are *many* things which which would significantly improve students' academics, such as better nutrition, doing extra practice outside of school, and attending tutorial sessions, but none of them are mandatory; having state enforcement of all of those would be nigh-impossible! Simply put, it is unfeasible to hold the state responsible for ensuring high levels of academic performance, and as such, this contention fails. This contention also fails because the vast majority of elementary schools recess periods, as shown by a survey by the National Association of Elementary School Principals revealing that ""schools in 90% of school districts had at least one recess period during the day"" (http://www.isbe.net...). These recess periods easily provide the students with '20 minutes of walking' (which Pro's first study describes as being all that is required to stimulate the brain), and since the majority of grade schools already have them, there is absolutely no reason to implement mandatory physical education classes on top of that. A3: Stress Reduction This is more or less a repetition of Pro's second point, except it substitutes academic performance in general with student stress levels. The same rebuttals apply: 1) it is unfeasible to hold the government responsible for student stress levels, as there are far too many other things the government would be obligated to do as well if that were the case, and 2) recess periods also involve physical activity and thus bring many of the same benefits, thus rendering mandatory PE to be unnecessary. Pro's attempt at drawing a connection between childhood stress and drug use is a blatant slippery slope fallacy; even according to Pro's own articles, exercise is a short term relief for stress-- engaging in daily physical activity activity is important because it continually releases stress acquired on a day-to-day basis. In other words, having PE classes in grade school will in no way prevent a child from being stressed at a later age and start doing drugs... A4: Social Benefits Pro argues that PE classes improve social skills. Again, the rebuttal about the non-feasibility of holding the government responsible for such issues applies, as well as the rebuttal about perfectly viable alternatives already existing, such as recess periods, general classroom activities, and socialization outside of school. Pro claims that ""all the people who did not go to gym would not be a great social and group person"", but that is simply fallacious; the fact that PE may help aid in social development does not even come close to implying that social development cannot occur without PE classes... A6: Lower-Income Families Pro argues that children from lower-income families cannot engage in physical activity outside of school due to their living conditions. The biggest problem with this is that children at that level of impoverishment are far from being the majority, and so their predicament does not warrant making physical education mandatory for *all* students. At most, it makes it justifiable for the government to provide incentives to schools to make optional PE programs available. Besides that, a few of the rebuttals I've already made can be extended to even further refute this... 1) recess periods provide adequate physical activity for practical purposes, and 2) PE classes don't really help with 'curing' obesity or making any sort of significant impact on physical fitness. A7: Fun Pro has got to be kidding me with this argument. First and foremost, what is ""fun"" and what is ""not fun"" is entirely subjective, and thus does not serve as an objective reason to make PE mandatory. I personally hated gym class for the most part... furthermore, previous rebuttals can be extended, such as government responsibility and recess as an alternative. *Pro's A5 and A8 have been skipped because they are virtually re-iterations of earlier arguments.* == NEG CASE == A1: Ineffectiveness Pro gives two rebuttals. His first one basically objects that 16 minutes of physical activity is better than no physical activity (""look, a couple of calories got burnt!""). This may be true, but it is irrelevant; I am merely showing with this contention that the positive utility of PE classes is minimal, thus rendering the effort necessary to enforce mandatory PE to be not be worth it. If there is a certain minimum amount of physical activity needed to make an actual difference in students' health, and PE classes do not meet than minimum, then PE classes are ineffective-- Pro has essentially conceded this with his failed attempt at dodging the main point of the argument. Pro's second rebuttal is non-topical, as it randomly brings in statistics from other countries when literally the entirety of his own case is USA-specific. The resolution is implicitly USA-specific as a result of the stats used by both debaters; what Pro attempts to do here is both non-topical and unfair. Pro has failed to refute the fact that PE classes ultimately have no significant impact on a child's health, and it is thus not worth making them mandatory, especially given the costs of implementing a successful PE program. A2: Cost Pro objects to the notion that a school's primary function should be education by stating that ""the well-being a of a child's bodily health is also important"". This is a red herring which has nothing to do with the substance of my argument. Sure, a child's physical health is important, but so is their spiritual/religious development, their economic well-being, and their social life , None of those are the school's responsibility! The child's family and community is responsible for such things; Pro has not actually directly contested that a school's primary function is to educate, so we can safely arrive at the conclusion that academic concerns should take precedence over all else, as far as a school's budget is concerned. As for Pro's response to my cost argument, he claims that all one really needs to start a PE class is a soccer ball. That is absurd; throwing a bunch of kids a soccer ball is called recess time. All of Pro's other arguments rely on the common conception of a PE class, and at the very least, that requires a well-maintained gymnasium and/or outdoor field as well as at least one full-time employed coach. Forcing a school without a PE program to adopt one is not nearly as inexpensive as Pro would lead us to believe; and since a school's primary purpose is academics. A3: Alternative Pro has missed the point of my argument. PE classes do nothing more than force a child to engage in physical activity for several minutes a day, which does nothing for the child's long-term health. Pro attempts to conflate my alternative with PE classes in order to benefit his case; however my alternative is significantly distinct in that it motivates children to continue exercising outside of class and keep up good health habits throughout their lives through actual classroom instruction. In a gym class, a student simply learns to jog laps and play sports; in a health education class, a student learns how to maintain a healthy lifestyle in all its aspects, be it physical fitness, balanced nutrition, or mental/emotion well-being. In addition to much greater utility, it is also much cheaper since it can be carried out in a traditional classroom setting just like any other class. A mandatory health education program would clearly be preferable to a mandatory PE program. ============ CONCLUSION ============ 1) PE classes barely give any actual benefit to students, so making them mandatory is a waste of time and effort. 2) Considering that the vast majority of a school's budget must be reserved for academic concerns, PE classes are far too expensive to feasibly be made mandatory. 3) A mandatory Health Education program would be preferable to a mandatory PE program anyways, which, again, renders the latter to be useless. Any one of those three arguments are enough to hold up the resolution, and I have affirmed all three. Moreover, none of Pro's arguments actually hold up; they all ignore the fact that the government cannot feasibly be held responsible for ensuring success in every aspect of a student's life, and that PE classes are not the best solution to any of his presented dilemmas. The resolution is negated."	CON	501
501	S816da028-Af3280493	Resolved: Direct popular vote should replace Electoral College	D1: Helps Minority and small states The basis of my opponents argument here lies on the bandwagon fallacy (we already touched on this) and this in turn means the majority may be bad. What Pro doesn't realize is the EC makes it more fair as a whole. In a NV system a few large states (texas, california, florida, NY, Ohio, PA, and NJ) Would totally control the elections. The EC does in fact make each individual vote worth slightly less, as my dads vote would be worth more then my uncles vote in TX, but if you look at the system overall the EC is MORE fair. So, it is true each individuals vote is worth less/more slightly, but it keeps the big states from controlling 100% of the elections. It acts as a counter balance. So individually one on one they get crushed, but as a whole they are still worth more. So it gives us a say in the election so a few small areas do not rule the election, and still gives them overall more of a say. Does this make sense? I don't know how well I worded this is why I ask. And then to debunk her main argument all I need to do is show the majority wins most of the time anyway. Further more if you look at the way the EC is designed it is made too make a majority almost every time. One must win 270 electors to have victory. [1] As this is the case, it forces a majority. As there are 435 members in the house, 100 senators, they add them together 535 electoral votes. As this is only very slightly weighted to small states, it is mainly fair. As it is fairly even (still slightly weighted) it forces a majority 99% of the time, exclude 2000. So is appeals to the majority much of the time anyway. D2: Adds to the cohesiveness of the country My opponent needs to look at an electoral map. If you see the map the Midwest has more votes overall then California. These small states are the ones that bring the republicans to win anything. The Midwest now garners much of the electoral votes forcing candidates to win some of that territory. [2] As the smaller states are powerful enough to sway an election the candidates now must WIN part of the Midwest to win the election, forcing them to have a wider appeal. D3: Two Party system My opponent claims this is bad as people cannot run. This is false, as 3rd party people can run. But the EC encourages a two party system. Now if you think of it it does not exclude anyone. People like ron paul still run in the election as a republican. It makes the people with crazy ideas not want to run, therefore benefits us all. But other people like in the green party or libertarian parties can still run for president and win if the run under the banner of an {R} or a {D}. So it makes it easier for us in a 2 party system and people can still run successfully if they run as the new candidate under a R/D. D4: Constitution My opponents argument here is if the voting system is flawed fix it! Well first as I have proven it is not flawed. Second we are not a democracy like you keep saying. I already proved we where a republic. A republic is a government ruled by states but elected by the people. [3] So please, this democracy concept out, lol. No but this is a reason to keep it. If there is NO hopes in changing the system because every small state will veto it is a good reason, this reform will never happen this argument henceforth is in-futile. Its never going to fully go away with the small states vetoes. And changing it is not what the founding fathers had in mind. _________________________________________________________________________________________________ C+1: Flaws ---> Were still not a democracy. In a republic the government decides policy. In a democracy the people do. [3, 4] These differences hinder the argument invalid as it cannot violate this. Also as I have stated the EC 99% of the time forces a majority. So all in all it does not even violate democracy if we where one. My opponent is claiming the EC ignores the minority. As I have stated it enhances minority votes and small states, and your rebuttal to that basically conceded this fact. In the EC everyone is considered, in the NV system small states are not considered, only the eastern seaboard. If anything the EC enhances voter status. ---> popular support My opponents argument is still false. Popular support is not a reason to change something and it falls under the bandwagon fallacy. As it breaks this fallacy it is invalid. ---> People do not vote As I have stated it creates a counter balance so the big states overall are more important, and the smaller states do not get crushed. The NV makes the system worse. Individually we all are worth the same now, but in the government the small states now have NO voice. Texas decides over NM now. The EC makes it more fair this way so as a whole Texas is worth more then NM but NM is now going to have a say. The EC gives everyone a say, a NV system basically gives ALL OF THE POWER to NY and TX and CA. This is more unfair then the flaws you are pointing out with the EC. A reformation to the EC would be more valuable then an NV which makes it worse. C+2: Majority My opponents argument is still looking upon the band wagon fallacy of appeal to the majority. The EC almost always represents the will of the people, and this is how the EC was constructed. My opponents argument is statistically very low unless there is a major third party, like in 2000 Ralph Nader sole the win from Al Gore. But statistically speaking her argument is very unlikely. The EC's winner take all makes it so you win the majority of the vote in those states, well if you win more states then your winning the popular vote by each state. Theoretically then you are going to get the majority of the vote most of the time. C+3: Direct popular vote maximizes liberties of all Americans My opponents argument is still interesting, as the EC increases minority freedoms. It helps all minorities have a major swing in an election. Under the NV system only the majority of the population counts, politicians would try to win the ethnic majority vote so they get more. The ethnic minorities would be worthless as they are a minority. The EC makes politicians win the minority vote to win. So small states and minorities are now crucial. As I have already proven, and you have not refuted, the EC helps minority voters. Conclusion: Direct popular vote is a system that is highly flawed and detrimental to the election system of the US. My opponents arguments as I have shown are flawed and fall under the bandwagon fallacy much of the time. I have refuted her arguments, as she has the BoP for being Pro AND changing the status quo. She has not fulfilled this burden therefore I urge a Con vote. http://www.debate.org...	CON	502
502	S5d3f8690-A3e0022e7	Curent high school education should not be mandatory	"I accept all of Con's definitions. C1: ""Maybe so, but this is a very small benefit compared to the huge benefit that high school currently produces. As I previously stated, those who get out of high school usually go to college and further their studies. Some become extremely successful and make plenty of money for the economy."" They do not provide plenty of money for the economy, unless these people are somehow counterfeiters (a felony which one should not promote) or work for the Federal Reserve. Rather they either provide goods or services that benefit society, find ways to reduce prices of goods or services, or fund the two (ex: financial advisors or bankers). I'd also note that t Bill Gates, and Mark Zuckerberg (founders of facebook) are college drop outs yet provided goods (Microsoft and facebook) that are used widely today. Also, those that provide goods and services that benefit society, also receive money for themselves, so these people have self-interest to go to either high school or college. Even though college is not mandatory, many people still attend college due to the likelihood of higher paying jobs in the future. C1/2: ""I have to completely disagree. How is science and mathematics not important? These two extremely important subjects have funded society as we know it today"" In my opening topic I did not state that high school is not useful. I stated that high school should not be mandatory. I understand that these subjects are important to medical doctors, engineers, scientists, writers, etc. You even state yourself: ""In every class, you have those who are not that dedicated to learning, and those people take lower skilled jobs"". That is the point. Jobs like janitors, construction workers, drivers, garbage collectors, mailman and cashiers do not have to learn this information. Even service industry jobs such as chiefs, hair/nail stylists, actors, entertainers and musicians still do not have to learn this information. Even if every single person in the world got a PhD, there would still be people working in these fields, because there will always be a demand for them. We will always need the janitor and garbage crew to help keep civilization clean. We will always need drivers for buses, construction workers to create new houses, roads, and other infrastructure. We will always need drivers to transport us from one place to another if one does not have access to a car. These people should not have to waste their time and effort in high school. C3: ""This statement basically suggests that we should completely not focus on our friends and families that do poor in school and let them drop out and possibly resort to a life of crime."" Why would dropping out of school lead to a life of crime? Should I help somebody go to the Justin Bieber concert, if one does not want to go to it? Should I help someone to have sex, if one does not want to have sex? Should I help someone go to school who doesn't want to? No, because the person does not WANT help, and by helping the person, you are creating more harm in the process. ""Why are high schools better when attendance to high school is not forced? How does that make sense?"" If you take notice here: http://4brevard.com... notice that the countries that perform better than the United States at the very least have a division in high school, between vocational school and preparation for college tracks. Also, explain why American universities are considered to be the best in the world while our high schools are mediocre? My mother, an ex-high school teacher hated the atmosphere since her job was mostly to control the class and found it difficult to teach anything. However, she went to become a math professor and did not have the same problems she did with high school students. So not only does requiring students to be in high school cause disruptions in class which makes learning difficult, but it also causes competent teachers to leave the system. C4: ""This is absurd. A completely free society is a chaotic one. Everyone would do whatever they'd like and commit crimes, with no punishment involved"" ""You yourself said prison, military, and school are where freedom of speech is severely hindered. This is untrue"" This rebuttal is absurd, since it assumes that this resolution creates a chaotic society. Murder, rape trespassing, slander, and stealing will still be illegal. The bases of which society's laws are based on are ""social contract"" which states that the government should be designed to protect our rights that would be infringed upon in anarchy (ex: life and property). As far as I'm concerned, I do not see how not going to school is harming anyone else in the world. Also freedom of speech in school is prohibited if it is offensive, disruptive, or impairs the educational mission. For example, in Hazelwood v. Kuhlmeier issues in the school newspaper could not address teen pregnancy or divorce. [http://en.wikipedia.org...] Rebuttals R1: ""1. High school has a huge benefit. High school is the bridge to college."" Contentions 1 and 2 basically talk about this and I do not want to repeat myself. However, I will note that I did not say that high school does not have a benefit, but it doesn't benefit everyone, and thus should not be mandatory. R2: 2. ""High school is the first step to your career job. Due to all the subjects involved in this type of school, 16 year olds begin to see they enjoy a particular subject, for example math. That leads to college, where the young adult begins to try a degree in that very subject."" The top paying undergraduate degrees are in engineering, physics, computer science and economics. http://www.payscale.com.... With the exception of physics, these subjects are not required in high school, and engineering classes are rarely even offered in high school. Also note how at the very bottom of the list: English, Literature, and Humanities, core subjects in high school, are lower paying salaries. Also note that the cores are also taught from K-8, so that one can develop an interest in them at a younger age. I also do not understand why one cannot discover their passion on their own, rather than have school discover them for you. If one truly enjoys something, it should not require school for someone to pursuit or find their passion. I find this method a lot better than cramming the material down their throats (this is an expression, not a literate meaning) and stressing people out with exams and annoying projects, thus ruining one's joy for the subject. For example, I used to hate writing persuasive essays in high school. However, after learning about the rules of logic and logic fallacies in my spare time, I became interested in debates. However, I still became unsatisfied since I learned that persuasive writing offers no option for someone to make a rebuttal and if debating with somebody, the person will rarely accept defeat and ends with bad conduct, ending in no real winners. However, at debate.org I can enter a non-hostile environment, where good conduct is required, people can give feedback on debating, and I can enter into challenging debates that make me think. It is through this, not from high school, that I learn to enjoy debating, which can result in me becoming a lawyer, lobbyist or politician."	PRO	503
503	S1db3eaf8-Ac092d522	Maintaining a system of free university education leads to an inefficient allocation of state resources.	First, tax money is wasted on paying civil servants to deal with university bureaucracy. Second, when the state funds all university education for free, funding will be allocated to unprofitable courses. Thirdly a moral hazard problem emerges among such students attending for free. They are allowed to reap all the benefits of education, while needing to incur none of the costs so won’t feel they need to work at their degree. The fourth problem of free university education is saturation of degree­holders in the market.[1] When everyone has a degree, the value of such a qualification plummets. Thus, a system of fees is superior to free education as it allows for more efficient allocation of resources to universities determined by which universities produce the best educated students and research.  [1] Chapman, Bruce. 2001. “The Higher Education Finance Debate: Current Issues and Suggestions for Reform”. Australian Review of Public Affairs. Available: http://www.australianreview.net/digest/2001/10/chapman.html​             	PRO	504
504	S15cbc009-A189a2cc5	The US should Ensure Access to Quality Education For Everyone	"I apologize for my absence in the previous round and thank my opponent for his courtesy. ""Let me clarify then. It doesn't matter if you are rich or poor but rather how hard you work that determines your outcome in life. And that even if all students were equal in wealth the key determinant for their success would be effort and of course natural ability. Wealth alone is not enough to succeed in education or life in general."" I do not agree. There are many hard-working families that remain poor for generations. Besides; how do you expect to work hard and get a job if you do not have an education and evidence that you will be proficient at this job? The rich will be afforded this chance with their fancy degrees, whereas the poor would not. This is the inherent problem with the current system. While I agree that wealth alone is not enough to succeed, those who are wealthy have a significantly greater potential for success than the poor. ""Of course, but life isn't fair. I would say that an egalitarian life would be boring and de-motivational. If everything was fair and everyone was equal then what would be the point in striving to do your best or trying to overcome your circumstances? Not everyone sits there content to complain about their circumstances and actually do something to achieve their goals."" I agree that equality for all would be a boring situation. I am only proposing an equal education. An equal education does not mean equal success, equal personality, and equal viewpoint. The fact is, you would still have to work in order to succeed, still have to apply what you learned with your education in your job. You talk about how not everyone is ""content to complain,"" and instead ""actually do something."" You gave me two success stories. There are three hundred million Americans in this country, and the number is growing. I think that the proof of two people's successes doesn't prove that the current system is fine. Besides, I looked at http://www.horatioalger.com...... http://www.horatioalger.com...... and notice how the articles seem to contain numerous phrases like: ""Call it fate or destiny, but,"" or ""Because of the Horatio Alger scholarship,"" or exaggerations of hardship such as ""My childhood was without my real father... I suppose I would have turned out differently if I had a ""dad"" but, thinking about it now, I don't know how I would be a better person."" "" I hope I didn't mangle the proposal too badly. So, given that what I think you mean is what you mean then the non-rich already are offered scholarships, grants, and loans to attend University and is even a part of some Universities' diversity goals. Much like desegregation, schools see diverse economic backgrounds as benefit to the overall educational environment. It would seem, then, that the only difference between your proposal and current reality is that in order to get into University students would have to be exemplary. I would argue that even C students should be afforded the opportunity since C students may have the ability but not the drive in primary education but could be driven to excel in post-secondary. "" Sorry, but you did mangle my proposal. I apologize for not making my proposal clear. My proposal was that the rich be required to excel in public primary and public secondary education before attending private primary and secondary education institutions. However, I suppose that this could be extended to universities, that you have to succeed in public primary and secondary before attending a private university. The poor and middle class would receive scholarships for attending private primary and secondary institutions: scholarships financed by an increase of taxes for the rich. I apologize for not defining rich in my initial statement. Rich are those abundantly supplied with resources, means, or funds, according to dictionary.com. In other words, those who can easily finance their child's education are rich. Those who cannot do so are classified as non-rich. You refer to the fact that C students who are maybe not so driven in public primary and secondary may be more driven in post-secondary. I ask: why would this be the case? At any rate, even in the current system, if you are C student you wouldn't get into Harvard, or MIT. ""We both know why the government intervened – there was a huge disparity in quality of education between the segregated schools and segregation was just wrong. I'm not even arguing that it shouldn't have been done. What I'm saying is the law of diminishing returns becomes apparent after 40+ years. Are you proposing further desegregation? And if so, how would this significantly impact educational outcomes?"" You discuss that segregation is ""just wrong."" I won't argue, but why do you suppose that is the case? Perhaps words like equality, fairness, and life quality figure in the argument that segregation is, as you say, ""just wrong?"" The reason we all think that segregation is wrong is because we believe in the fact that all people should be afforded equal quality of life. Quality of life correlates directly to the quality of education. Besides; by disagreeing, aren't you segregating the rich from the poor? Isn't this, as you say, ""just wrong?"" ""Which is it? You say the states should respond but that it should be passed into federal law. This is precisely why Alexander Tytler, in the 18th century said, """"A democracy cannot exist as a permanent form of government. It can only exist until the majority discovers it can vote itself largess out of the public treasury. After that, the majority always votes for the candidate promising the most benefits with the result the democracy collapses because of the loose fiscal policy ensuing, always to be followed by a dictatorship, then a monarchy."" Just because the majority thinks everything should be free, fair and equal does not make it right or affordable."" I apologize for my earlier ambiguity; people and/or states and/or the federal government can ensure that this proposition prevails. The people can ensure it because although I agree whole-heartedly with Alexander Tytler, his statements do not form a basis for us to suddenly trash the constitution. The states can ensure it because they are the ones responsible for education, and the federal government can ensure it by providing a financial incentive to the states. ""Equality in wealth is not only unattainable but undesirable. In order to achieve this end would require depriving others of their wealth which is antithetical to fairness and equality. I would offer that equal opportunity should exist as enshrined in the Declaration of Independence but using the Federal treasury to do so is the wrong approach. Your station in life is influenced by external forces but your path is ultimately in your own hands."" First, I am not proposing equality in wealth. Secondly, I am not, as I clarified above, proposing to use the federal treasury to enact these changes. CONCLUSION I maintain that the US should ensure quality education for everyone because not only are these changes realistic, but not enacting these changes would be siding with the segregation that, as my opponent pointed out, is just wrong. Thank you again for your courtesy. I await your response. ant981228"	PRO	505
505	Sae9368dd-A8a4e54ab	Education should be Mandated in the United States of America	"I return the thanks and the belief this is productive. I think there are too many claims in your post to address well in 10k characters, So I will address as many as I can sufficiently. If there were no limit I would address them all. 1. Prioritizing Parents and Indoctrination. You are absolutely correct that teachers indoctrinate students as well. You are correct that this leads to a clash between the parent's ideology and the teacher's ideology. I agree too that parents need to have some say in the education of their children. Even in a utopian society, People would still likely have emotional attachments to offspring that they sire or birth. Being that we're debating in our current reality, I have to accept society functions best when parents have some control over their student's education. You also agree with me that parents do and are indoctrinating their children when they teach their thoughts, And they themselves feel or think that their ideology is the best. With all of these agreed upon statements in mind, The middle ground, The compromise between the two stances is a mandated public school system. No matter what, Instruction indoctrinates. Having competing viewpoints is the only defense against indoctrination. The stress involved with the choice between believing one's parents or one's teachers, Or even one's friends who learn a different ideology from their parents or teachers, Is a necessary stress. Neither of us would say that a life with no stress creates strong, Individualistic human beings capable of succeeding in life. This is a necessary stress. Homeschooling alone would then be indoctrination from one side. I. E. No compromise at all. Homeschooling, With the mandate and tests required, Is a compromise that greatly favors the parents. Private schooling is nearly identical to homeschooling. The private school selected will more than likely be biased towards the parent's views, Limiting ideological diversity. This leads to less well-rounded children. Children who have have not had to question certain positions that a significant, If not majority of the population differs from their parents and their private instructors on. I propose to you that the people can hold the teachers accountable if they push an extreme ideology, As many have been held accountable and fired for improper teaching. The public school we must strive to build needs to be above extreme ideology and give children only the tools required to think for themselves, Countering in some way the indoctrination of the parents on the child. In this respect, It should be an effort of all members of our society to disable bureaucrats from having any control over the Public School curriculum. Instead, It should be educators who make the curriculum. Children are more likely to accept their parent's views even with our current system in place. This can be proven statistically through various means. I do have sources for this, But posting sources on this site is now a struggle. If you or the audience wish for me to supply them I'll be happy to do so but I believe this is not a controversial point. So, In short, Your current view guarantees the parent's rights as strong as possible, Which is admirable to me. I contend that you put too little faith in the Public School System' efficacy at giving children the basic tools required to succeed, Even if we can both agree that it needs to be improved drastically (and can easily be, Given the state of education in other countries) I contend that you discount the importance of ideological diversity and its role in strengthening individuality for our children. I contend that you put too little value on the child's rights. 2. Public School Funding, Safety, And Strength of Workers. We agree on taxes, The distribution of those taxes, And the duty of the government here. Some schools currently are dangerous places for students i. E. Poisoned water, Loose ceiling tiles, Nails sticking out of floors, Et cetera. This is an unequal funding issue which was my point. These structural insecurities are easily resolved with proper funding. This is certainly the government's fault currently. Few people run and mention these issues. This is not an argument against public schools as a concept, Just the execution in our current reality. There is less guarantee that the homes of some children are any safer. ""Dangerous criminals"" are forced to attend the same schools. Please let's keep in mind we're talking about children here. If there is any chance to prevent children from becoming criminals it is in the public school system. Interactions with supportive adults go a long way to stopping more crime than we will ever know. There are abusive parents out there. More than we will ever likely know. I can count with the fingers on my left hand the friends I have had who were not stressed more than necessary or directly abused by their parents, And these aren't even intentional mistakes on the parent's part. Were y0ur parents perfect? Children who have committed crimes are not classified on the same level as adult criminals, Nor should they be. From where do you think their criminality arises? From the public schooling system, Built to educate, Support, And keep children safe, Or the reality outside the public school systems? In what world can you say it is better for society that children who are neglected at home should stay at home? Now, What better real world experience is there for children than experiencing delinquency on low levels in a relatively safe environment? People tend to make fun of parents who go overboard with concerns for 'safety' and end up weakening their children. These children are called 'sheltered. ' This term applies exceedingly well to home schooled and private schooled children. Parents will get air purifiers, Mask their children, Et cetera to prevent them from getting sick. This in turn leads their immune systems to develop less. This in turn makes them more prone to sicknesses for the rest of their life. Some parents put paddings all over their child when they go to ride a bike or skateboard. Other parents ban their children from those experiences altogether citing safety concerns. If you value real world experience as you say, There are many experiences of value to be had in public schools. These lessons are extremely important, In my view, To be prepared for the real world outside of the parental shelter. This is called 'socializing' children. It is a known objectively important step for well-balanced children. It is a well-known problem for home schooled children. Home school parents try to mitigate this by exposing their children to other home schooled children with mixed results. Home schooled children grow up and what many of them will tell you after they are adults is that they lacked socialization and feel it is important for their children. What publicly schooled children will say is they love how smart home schooled or private schooled children are. There is not a reason both of these strengths cannot be merged with the public school system. Neither you or I agree that schooling needs to last as long as it does. I would submit to you and our audience that children graduating high school at 18 today could be taught everything they have learned up to that point at a much earlier age. 13 is my opinion, At the very least. Some children have graduated college at far less of an age (I do have sources, Again). I propose that outside of mentally challenged situations this will be true. I can cite over a decade of teaching experience to this as well. There is no question that better educated workers make for a stronger work force. Even if your specialization is narrow and focused, Cross pollination will help every field. A plumber or electrician without math or physics knowledge will lead to more cases of electrocution, Shoddy plumbing, And wiring. 3. Board of Education and Authority You claim that homeopath, Astrology, Religion, Et cetera should have a place in schools because I, And the majority of scientists, Have ""twisted facts. "" You are making a claim that no facts can be known to exist. This is not true. To be frank homeopathy and astrology are taught in schools to some extent. The evidence in direct opposition to them, With no evidence for them makes your argument an appeal to ignorance when there is no ignorance on the subject. You're saying that my facts are not facts. If that is the case I can't help you, And I wish you the best. The parents are free to present their evidence to their children if they wish it. A federal board would say you cannot teach demonstrably false science as 'up for debate' science. To pretend it is not known. Splitting these choices among more than one Board means that arguments don't all lead to the same authority. Multiple boards will make multiple decisions when only one decision is factually true. Appealing to scientific fact is not an 'appeal to an anonymous authority. ' Science is not anonymous. In conclusion: We agree parents indoctrinate. We agree schools indoctrinate. Your position is that the parent's indoctrination is acceptable and the school's is not. If you have your way, The parents indoctrination will be unchallenged. The school's indoctrination will never be unchallenged by the parents unless it is perfectly of the same ideology, In which case you should have no issue with it. Your conclusion at the end of R2 is that the educator's indoctrination would, And is currently, Going unopposed. Giving children no room for escape. The reality is that the school is never unopposed by the parents unless the parents don't care at all. In which case, The school is superior for the child than the parents. The only system in which indoctrination is not challenged is an education that stems from the parents alone, Or from the parent's selections alone. I submit that this is the only scenario in which the child has no escape. -Thoht"	PRO	506
506	Sc7831446-Ac092d522	Maintaining a system of free university education leads to an inefficient allocation of state resources.	First, tax money is wasted on paying civil servants to deal with university bureaucracy. Second, when the state funds all university education for free, funding will be allocated to unprofitable courses. Thirdly a moral hazard problem emerges among such students attending for free. They are allowed to reap all the benefits of education, while needing to incur none of the costs so won’t feel they need to work at their degree. The fourth problem of free university education is saturation of degree­holders in the market.[1] When everyone has a degree, the value of such a qualification plummets. Thus, a system of fees is superior to free education as it allows for more efficient allocation of resources to universities determined by which universities produce the best educated students and research.  [1] Chapman, Bruce. 2001. “The Higher Education Finance Debate: Current Issues and Suggestions for Reform”. Australian Review of Public Affairs. Available: http://www.australianreview.net/digest/2001/10/chapman.html​             	PRO	507
507	Sed52489a-Acbbc07b5	Wide university education produces a literate, multi-skilled and widely knowledgeable nation	Quite apart from the fact that the nation also needs to learn more practical skills (which one cannot learn through most university educations), there are many ways in which one can become culturally aware, widely read and more 'artistic' without the long years and large debt of a university education. The British media has improved so much and become so diverse that there are many high quality documentaries that have brought a wider education to those with interest outside university. Libraries, evening classes, and the internet can provide all the education one could want to those with a specific interest but with no real urge for a degree or career in that field. If self-education were promoted more in this manner, and university was kept separate for those who wanted to learn for career advancement rather than education for education's sake, then thousands of young people would be more financially and vocationally secure.	CON	508
508	Se6ffa8fb-A677a52c6	It is well known that a university education leads to great benefits in later life.	It is well known that a university education leads to great benefits in later life. University graduates are more likely to have better jobs and higher wages than people with only a high school education. Seeing as university graduates receive all of these benefits, and will be able to afford it – it is only fair that they pay for the education they receive. This is the basis of all taxation.	PRO	509
509	S64c53e3d-A663f1470	Higher Education ought to be private and indiviuals ought to pay for it themselves.	"1) ""There is no free lunch"" Teachers and administrative faculty will still have to get paid and teaching supplies (ex: labs, desk, classroom) will still need to be bought. Even if education is free, somebody will still have to pay for it, so it is not really free. If the government pays for education, it is not really the government, because the taxpayers are the one's who pay for education. They do not voluntarily agree to pay for student's education but are forced to by the government. Educating somebody else does not benefit him or her as nearly as much as it does the student. Individuals can help pay for somebody's education through the use of charity. One can give a student a scholarship. However, why force others to pay for something that does not benefit him or her? While it is one thing to force others to pay for a military or police service that benefits many people, it is another to force people to pay for others education. 2) A free education is a worthless education http://www.youtube.com... In this video, Dr. Kelso has a lifetime supply of muffins. Since he has a lifetime of free muffins, he can use the muffin for any purpose, even throw it away ""because he can"" and there is no negative repercussions, as opposed if he did pay, in which he'd lose money for doing that. The same logic applies to making education free. You do not have to take your education seriously since you will not lose anything in the process. If all people are given a free education, then most people will take it, because after all it is a free, why not? However a student does not necessarily have to go to higher education to ""learn"". He/she can attend for any reason. He or she might do it to find attractive people to fool around with, to party or any extra-curricular activities or sports that the school might offer. While these reasons are not necessarily bad it is because that learning is not a main objective that it becomes a problem. A student can go for these activities, and put minimal effort or no effort into learning. This cause many problems: a)If a school contains many ""bad"" students the teachers will often dumb down the curriculum, be unsatisfied with his/her job because of these students. b)Those students that do not want to learn will be disruptive, and will be a bad influence on those that are there to learn, bringing everyone down with him/her. c)Extra resources are wasted on these students that will not reap the benefits that education is supposed to show. 3) A privatize higher education is guided by the ""invisible hand"" while a public higher education is not. The ""invisible hand"" refers to how competition and supply and demand regulate a market, in this case the market for education. For example, Harvard University, University of Chicago, Yale University, and Massachusetts Institution of Technology are considered the best Universities in the world which many Nobel laureates graduated from. These are all private schools. In the face of competition, organizations will compete to create a better good at a lower price. This is a basic principle in economics. In this case, education is the good. By allowing the private sector, not the public sector, this good can be applied cheaper and better. 4) Education as an investment and other opportunity costs In the basic theory of economics, there are four parts to production of goods: natural resources or land, labor, capitol (goods that produce other goods), and entrepreneurship (those willing to factor of the means of production together). Higher education increases the value of your labor. Thus that is the benefit of higher education and why a good education can improve the economy and cause an increase in one's salary. However, the government could also improve the economy by raising capitol instead, buying natural resources, or creating projects that create new goods. However, the state is very poor at making these decisions, since it is not run by the ""invisible hand"". For example, the government could overspend on investing in labor, thus making the effects of higher education void. In the United States, the country with the highest Gross Domestic Production, capitol, natural resources, and labor for businesses is raised from loans from creditors, and the stock market. The creditor and stockholders benefit from this since he or she will receive money for these actions. This financial system works well. What's the point? If education does indeed cause labor wages to increase, if one pays for their education, and pays back creditor, everybody wins. The amount of skilled laborers is managed by supply and demand (if education has no benefit, then nobody would obtain an education). These skilled laborers will have enough money to pay back the creditors and still live a good life, and resources can be successful allocated between capitol, labor, and natural resources effectively."	PRO	510
510	S55c05f7c-A98d793ce	The Electoral College Should be Abolished	"====INTRODUCING THE AUDIENCE TO THE DEBATE==== Thanks, Pro. I would like to clarify, as I am negating changing the status quo, my opponent has to not only justify changing what has been the most dominant voting system used in the US for centuries, but also has to prove *ALL* my points wrong and that his proposed system would be more beneficial, also given the changes it would pose on American politics. I will also confront his points in order to add validity to my own arguments, so take that into argument points as well, voters. Changing such a system is no small matter, and must not be treated as such. Now onto my arguments. My apologies for the rushed format, I had little time to post my argument as I am very busy tomorrow. Minority States - Sparsely populated states that are generally rural. ====MY CASE==== C1: REPRESENTATION AND FOCUS: This premise is quite simple, yet crucial to this debate. All states, no matter how unpopulated, needs proper representation. With the most common system preferred by the public being ""whoever gets the most votes overall by the people wins"" way, this would be impossible to achieve. The Dakotas, Alaska, Vermont, Montana, Wyoming, and other such states all have small populations no matter how you look at it. Clearly, their votes would be minimized completely, and would be greatly overpowered by more populated states. This is simply unjust in every definition of the word. They would NOT be represented. As another important point on representation and focus, the president would have a hard time determining solutions for regional concerns as no representation would be given to minority states. They would pursue national interests, which would prevent regional progress. With EC, all regions are represented, and therefore is more fair to a considerable amount to the country, which lacks large populations. The simplistic 'more votes wins' plan contradicts the concept of individual liberty. If my opponent is for such a flawed system, then, by his logic, we should abolish the Senate as well. Where do we stop by this rationale? Must we cast a ballot on EVERY decision made in the Senate? In what regards should this stop? My opponent must draw a line. C2: MODERATION: This loosely ties into my first contention. It should be obvious that if popular vote was the system of use in political elections, democrats would almost exclusively campaign in significantly populated blue areas, whereas republicans would almost exclusively campaign in significantly populated red areas. Smaller rural and sparsley-populated regions, as mentioned above, would get little to no voice in elections. These areas would suffer dramatically. Also, swing states encourage moderation. If you think about it, many policies will pass in one area of country, and not the other. Some moderation is good. Some campainging strategies seen as ultra conservative from hardcore liberals would pass in the South, and not pass in the North, and vice versa. It is generally predictable how different parts of the country will vote on things. If they are definitely blue, or definitely red... it's just obvious. However, swing states are a different story. Since they are unpredictable and basically vote from scratch, then both candidates are forced to moderate their policies in order to appeal to a neutral audience. Lastly, bear in mind that since there is one swing state per region, the candidates will be able to make sure that they are able to confront regional concerns rather than only national concerns. This also help prevents candidates from simply going to populated areas to campaign. C3. CREATES A CLEAR WINNER IN CLOSE ELECTIONS: For this argument, in order to create more substance to my points, I shall provide an example(s) which more than proves my point: We all (hopefully) know how close the election in 1960 between Kennedy and Nixon was. More than 68 millions voters cast their ballots [1] and Kennedy came out in the popular vote as less than 2/10ths of a percent ahead of Nixon [2]. We should all know of the accusations from both sides about vote-stealing and the cries to recount the votes. With such close results, there would no doubt that the votes would have to be recounted in a direct elections. This would've taken months, and created more potential opportunities for fraud. This would therefore hinder the election. But because the Electoral College divided one big national election into 50 individual state elections, recounts were only pursued in a few states where the vresults were closest. And because Kennedy had a huge lead in Electoral votes --- 303 to 219 --- [3] Nixon would have had to win just about all the challenges to change the outcome of the election. Clearly that wouldn't happen, so most recounts were soon dropped. The EC took what had been a virtual tie in the popular vote and turned it into a clear-cut victory for Kennedy. There have been multiple times in American history where the candidate with more overall votes beat the other by less than 1% (e.g. Garfield, 1880, Nixon 1968, Cleveland 1884, etc.) [4] . If we had a direct election, we would have to verify the results by using a national recount. With EC little to no recounts would actually be counted. This prevents unnecessary complications and potential fraud opportunities. Most times, the EC produces a more notable margin of victory than the popular vote results. This makes the elections more obvious, and provides an opportunity to the president (winner of the election) to get ready for his new job as president. C4: THE EC SUCCESSFULLY AVOIDS CONFUSION. But an important result of the EC is that it has led to the development of two political parties that strive for broad appeal. Most other democracies have dozens of parties, many with very narrow agendas. With such an amount of parties, it is hard to reach agreement on virtually anything. But the EC requires a candidate to win a majority of electoral votes. If there were three or more parties, that would seldom happen. Because of this, American politics evolved to have two national parties, each of which needs to appeal to as many people as possible. A common argument against the EC revolves around third party candidates not being properly represented. However, more than two candidates would not only lead to confusion, but it would be impossible to please enough people to justify putting the winning candidate in office. With that, I hand this debate back to Pro. ====SUMMARY==== In this debate, I have showcased the following points: -All states, no matter how unpopulated, needs representation. -Swing states encourage moderation on all fronts, and discourages extremity from any party. -Prevents confusiong, fraud, and other harmful things to society as well as successfully determining close elections with confidence. -The Electoral College helps prevent confusion on nearly all fronts. It should be noted I am saving rebuttals for the next round. Thanks. I put lots of effort in considering all the circumstances clinging onto me in real life. ====SOURCES==== [1]: http://www.ushistory.org...;(near the end of the final paragraph) [2]: http://uselectionatlas.org...;(the chart shows a .17% popular vote difference, showcasing less that 2/10ths of a percentage point). [3]: http://uselectionatlas.org...;(look at the chart) [4]: http://uselectionatlas.org...; http://www.270towin.com... http://www.270towin.com..."	CON	511
511	S6097348b-A12df0d49	Is nature worth more attention than technology	"My opponent is argument thus far can be distilled into four statement provided by Pro (see below). Let me rebut them before making my own argument against the main proposition. Pro states: 1. “She [Nature] is the one that gives us unlimited supply of air and oxygen and she never demands nothing in return.” 2. “But we have to change our ways because otherwise nature will turn her back on us eventually. Sooner or later she will have enough of us treating her this way and when that day comes people will regret their actions but it will be too late.” 3. “And just by taking this common phrase to go in nature to relax.... it shows that people prefer nature over technology, because if it was the other way around people wouldn't go hiking, climbing, cycling, .....” 4. “Technology supports our laziness. And I think that this is the only reason people like it... and if you look deep into every persons heart I'm sure that they would prefer living their lives in some hut in forest by the lake without any worries, to rooms full of computers, televisions and other technologies.” Con’s rebuttals: 1. First, “air and oxygen” are not unlimited. In addition, the history of the earth as a planet reveals that existence is mercurial, random and often ends in extinction. 98% of all species that ever existed on Earth have gone extinct. [1] Neil deGrasse Tyson in Cosmos addressed this along with the “five great extinction events” in a recent episode of Cosmos: A Spacetime Odyssey.[2] 2. The “she never demands nothing [anything]” at the end of claim one as well as claim two emphasize this anthropomorphic view of Mother Nature. While Pro implies Mother Nature is some kind of kind benevolent and gentle force, the opposite is actual true. Slavoj Zizek recently dissuaded the naiveté that some delight in when they talk about environmental catastrophe, namely “we are all guilty, we exploited too much, we weren’t feminine enough. All this is bs [edited to meet the standards of DDO]. Why? Because it makes the situation “safer.” If it is us who are the bad guys, all we have to do is change our behavior. But in fact Mother Nature is a crazy bitch.” [3] What Zizek goes on to say is that think about the ecological catastrophe and sheer destruction that took place and lead to large fossilize deposits that are now the source for fuel. More specifically, what he is trying to get at and what I will argue is that Mother Nature is a freak show of contingent disturbances with no inner rhyme or reason. The version that Pro argues is that nature is a pure idyllic creation. Nature conceived as the balanced cycle of life is a human fantasy. 3. Pro infers (incorrectly, I will argue) that since “go in nature to relax” is used, one will reach concluded that people “prefer nature to technology.” The claim and the reason seem to be lacking and evidence absent, at least here. Con argues the fact that the two most significant events in human civilization, the Agricultural Revolution and the more recent Industrial Revolution should make one conclude that people prefer technology. Whether it the technology of agricultural production or production of the steam engine. This might be distasteful but what Pro appears to argue is analogous to the one many abusive husbands make: “look baby, I don’t mean to hit you when I get drunk. But you know I love you. Don’t these flowers, jewelry, signs of affection prove that?” Pro, at least of abuses to nature, seems to say, “My darling, my darling, because you prefer to buy me thing, relax and share moments with me prove you're the only man I could ever love.” 4. Of Pro’s major arguments, the fourth one strikes me as the least plausible. First Pro claims by way of conjecture that people only enjoy technology because it supports our own penchant for laziness. My counterargument would be the result from typing in the word inventor and innovation in a google search. However, Pro goes on to say: “if you look deep into every persons heart I'm sure that they would prefer living their lives in some hut in forest by the lake without any worries, to rooms full of computers, televisions and other technologies.” Con argues okay, but maybe we should give the heart too much create, rather maybe we should rely on real-world indicators, like say, what people actually do. I would Pro point four if a billionaire (a person with virtually unlimited resources at their disposal) actual bought a large swath of land somewhere—in reality their own estate—and became nomadic hunter-gatherers. The reason is that a billionaire, especially if they believed in living out their hearts desire could probably hire horticulturalists, ecologists, and experts to artificially create an environment as close to “nature,” as they wanted but none seems to do that. This proves Pro’s claim is demonstrably false, otherwise wouldn’t I do know some high net worth individual actually attempt this lifestyle. [1] George S. Fichter, Endangered Animals. (USA: Golden Books Publishing Company, 1995), 5. [2] Cosmos: A Spacetime Odyssey, ""Some of the Things That Molecules Do,"" episode 2 (originally aired March 16, 2014). [3] Liz Else from New Scientist interview with Slavoj Zizek, Verso books (Zizek’s publisher) has the quote here: http://www.versobooks.com...-s-new-scientist-interview-the-revolution-will-not-be-on-facebook"	CON	512
512	S68f43582-Ac5678f95	Public education in America is the death of freedom	"Thank you for the opportunity to debate. The fact is that with the federal government mandating policies such as Common Core while at the same time placing barriers on charter schools, the children of citizens in this country are being indoctrinated with values that come from the government, and not values that come from good parents. How can the parent of an illegal immigrant child be considered good and deserving of the high cost of the education their child will receive? Notice I said children of citizens, the point of that being that we the taxpayers, those that pay for the public schools, are forced to pay for the education of children that come here illegally to reap the rewards of their rotten parents decision to pass the burden to the American taxpayer. What seems to be the common mentality behind these decisions is liberal guilt, although factually, there are more wealthy liberals that have made their money through their ability to utilize the legal system to gain advantage for themselves, and those they would make the real taxpaying Americans support. There can be no argument that the vast majority of the public school administration is of the left wing, to varying degrees, highly liberal mindset, and notice please that they all receive their paycheck from money confiscated from the taxpayers. The far left loves to take their taxpayer paycheck and then turn around a look at the taxpayers and say ""see how lucky you are, these poor folks that never paid a nickel of taxes deserve that too, so pay up!"" This has made the American taxpayer a slave to the public school system, and that is certainly not freedom."	PRO	513
513	Sf5635870-Aebceca6d	A National Curriculum: Lower Education for a Lowerclass??? I think not...	People in the lower class deserve lower education, because they are lower. There is only a few disenfranchised individuals who are harmed. And since it is soo small it does not matter.	CON	514
514	S1db3eaf8-Aba49b8fc	Individuals have a right to the experience of higher education	University offers personal, intellectual, and often spiritual, exploration. In secondary school and in professional life, no such opportunities exist as they are about instruction and following orders, not about questioning norms and conventions in the same way university so often is.[1] A life without the critical thinking skills provided by university will be less useful to society, as citizens will be unable to engage with political debate effectively – citizens need to be critical of what politicians tell them. The state has a responsibility to provide citizens with the skillset to take partake in the democratic process.[2] Free universities benefit both the citizen, as an exploration for his/her own development, and to society, for an educated and active populace.  [1] Key Degree. 2010. “How to Reap the Benefits of College”. Keydegree.com. Available: http://www.keydegree.com/articles/benefits­of­college.html [2] Swift, Adam. 2001. Political Philosophy: A Beginner’s Guide for Students and Politicians. Cambridge: Polity. 	PRO	515
515	Sc7831446-Aba49b8fc	Individuals have a right to the experience of higher education	University offers personal, intellectual, and often spiritual, exploration. In secondary school and in professional life, no such opportunities exist as they are about instruction and following orders, not about questioning norms and conventions in the same way university so often is.[1] A life without the critical thinking skills provided by university will be less useful to society, as citizens will be unable to engage with political debate effectively – citizens need to be critical of what politicians tell them. The state has a responsibility to provide citizens with the skillset to take partake in the democratic process.[2] Free universities benefit both the citizen, as an exploration for his/her own development, and to society, for an educated and active populace.  [1] Key Degree. 2010. “How to Reap the Benefits of College”. Keydegree.com. Available: http://www.keydegree.com/articles/benefits­of­college.html [2] Swift, Adam. 2001. Political Philosophy: A Beginner’s Guide for Students and Politicians. Cambridge: Polity. 	PRO	516
516	S51e5652c-A70b9e0ea	Education nowadays should be mostly computerized	I agree mostly with what my opponent says in his first paragragh OUTSIDE of a school environment. You need to encode the information into long term memory because they won't let you make a google search on your exams. My opponent argues that you can store information in the digital realm so you can access it after your time in school is over. If your incredibly concerned with being able to have access to your 10th grade history class twenty years down the line then this argument is completely valid. However, most people are more concerned with getting high marks on their exams which requires mnemonic encoding. 1. if you lose focus on the lecture and you find yourself without an answer, chances are your class has assigned homework. if you find yourself without an answer on the homework you can look up the answer and incorporate it into the notes thus facilitating encoding. 2. yes, you can print the paper but if you learned it on the computer attempting to encode it on paper will still be more difficult. And I'm not saying that computerized learning has no meritorious traits. Simply that there needs to be a balance to ensure the most efficient learning. 3. It's not the right of the university to track the movements of its students. it's invasive. At work you can sign a contract. I wouldn't want my workplace to track my location either. This point is one of the smaller ones in both of our cases. 4. I believe these websites are great tools to facilitate learning as a supplement to what was taught in a lecture. to enforce this method of learning upon all students when many learn best from face to face instruction would defeat the purpose of these learning supplements. 5 again. these apps could be used as a supplement to learning and could be used to drill information that has already been encoded to increase the ease of access by drilling synaptic pathways. 6.7. Again, since you won't have access to google on the exam you will need the information encoded into long term memory as a result face to face communication is the best known methodology for facilitating encoding. What's actually driving up tuition are the redundant administrative positions that are growing in number. not hiring professors. but that's a debate for another day. 8. I don't think we were on the same page for the first part of this. For getting help from the teacher I was referring more to High school. Tutors were more for college. Having an online community to help you would be beneficial as long as it was used as a supplement to what was taught in the lecture. Information must first be encoded into long term memory in the lecture, then it may be supplemented with whatever means work best for you.	CON	517
517	Se0dd9576-A5fff70e7	are the constant phone tappings and violations of privacy worth it? (adressing the NSA and PRISM)	"They state this is solely used for tapping the common person but what about all the politicians they are tapping? They are taking an ""anti terrorist"" system and are using to spy on foreign affairs that concern only insiders of said affair. What concerns foreign affairs could have the possibility of concerning us. They could be plotting against us. It could possibly be a conspiracy. Like what if while we're listening to them, they include us into their conversations. They could still have the potential to be harboring terrorists that we're after. It's not much of a risk if it is worth to protect our national security. This act of international tapping and spying cost the U.S its relationship with Germany. Wasn't that already screwed over with World War II? I believe that we have pissed on them much that they don't like us already. We've already done much to make them get much butt hurt from us. The ""anti terrorist"" role of PRISM is nothing but a facade to hide its true purpose. True, we can't possibly know their true purpose to what they're doing but that doesn't exclude the fact that they can actually have an anti terrorist role by tapping into our phones and invading our privacy. Even if anti terrorism is their side purpose, something to at least do, it helps us, it is something that will at least protect our lives regardless of what their true purpose is unless it will actually harm us by which I could not think of examples of which they could do that unless they reveal and leak top secret information from our government to foreign nations. Now, here's why I don't see why those guys shouldn't be spying on us. First, some definitions: NSA: is a U.S. intelligence agency responsible for the production and management of signals intelligence (SIGINT) and information assurance for the United States government http://en.wikipedia.org... PRISM: a clandestine mass electronic surveillance data mining program launched in 2007 by the National Security Agency http://en.wikipedia.org...(surveillance_program) THEY DON'T CARE ABOUT OUR PERSONAL LIVES See, what our privacy is includes our stuff that we don't want to reveal to certain people. Say someone had an addiction to porn. Someone else has had a crush on someone but was too afraid to handle it. Someone else was peeing on a hobo's face but no one knows who that guy is. Someone else is retarded but that person doesn't know it. Someone else ate a pizza that was on the floor. There are many examples of stuff that we choose not to reveal to certain people that is too embarrassing for us to say to others. Everyone out there knows what's up and has problems and stuff like this in our personal lives that we don't want to reveal to others. Then, we all have that special buddy, that confidante, that person who we'd like to give our trust to, someone who we'd spill our guts about embarrassing stories and conditions that we have. Now, there are a billion people who have stuff they prefer not to say except to that one person they talk on the phone with. The NSA and PRISM could tap our phones and listen in onto these conversations but the fact is, they literally don't care at all. They go through a bunch of these and they would literally not care at all for they listen to stuff like these everyday. You need not worry what the NSA be listening to you talk about how you're a sad guy with no life when they don't care as they hear this stuff all the time. They only need to absorb the information of a potential terrorist plot about to occur. So what if people listen in our personal lives. You can just know that the NSA will not give a damn about what you're talking about. THERE'S NO REASON TO FEAR FOR YOUR PRIVACY UNLESS IT'S BAD Since the NSA don't care about your personal life, there's no reason to fear about the NSA tapping into your phones unless you got something bad to talk about over the phone. For example, someone has cheated on your spouse so you plan on killing them. Or you are a drug dealer going to deal some drugs. Bad stuff that you plan over the phone like an assassination attempt against the president. Obviously, you would fear the NSA from tapping into your phones. If you are simply having personal chatting time that is not illegal stuff, there is no need to fear about having your house knocked down by the authorities. Remember, they could care less about your innocent personal life. THE CHANCES OF CATCHING TERRORISTS OUTWEIGH YOUR PRIVACY Now, if the NSA would tap the phones, they could get any potential terrorist plots. terrorist: a person, usually a member of a group, who uses or advocates the use of violence and threats to intimidate or coerce, especially for political purposes http://dictionary.reference.com... Now, terrorists are out to get you and ruin your life as they had done in the blowing up of the World Towers. http://www.statisticbrain.com... That is a lot of deaths. When you live life, you know that your life is precious, it is valued. You spend a very, very long time living your life. When it can simply all end just like that, it is terrifying. It is horrid and would cause a lot of emotional pain to those who loved you and cared about you. Even to the strangers who you don't know that died because of the terrorist attack, you would still feel for them. Now, is it really a big difference about fearing for the invasion of privacy that the NSA is doing or is the value of your life more important? Your privacy won't matter if your life ends. Yes, it is very worth it for the NSA to tap into our phones and invade our privacy to protect us from terrorists that could potentially end our lives and our privacy wouldn't even matter anymore. So, I say this is much to think about when you value privacy over your life."	PRO	518
518	Sa513ba08-Ac4451d3f	Exams Ought to be Abolished from the Education System	"Thank you for providing a lot of arguments again, we should both have strong points when we come to the concluding round. China forces children to do 9 hour examinations, unsurprisingly this had lead to students committing suicide. The expectations on Chinese children are much higher, such exams cause a huge amount of stress. Thankfully exams in the U.K. typically last an hour or two, and there is often time to do some last minute revision before the next one. Sadly students in Britain have also killed their self due to the feelings of depression, hopelessness and fear of failure before taking their exams, or as a result of failing an exam. A huge number of students (over 140,000) aged 16 -18 are taking psychiatric drugs such as Prozac to inflate their resuts. [1] This shows that students are not adequately taught how to deal with stress, and are being given excessive amounts of homework which is all graded, supposedly for their benefit, however student don't feel grades are for them because they can't possibly try their best unless they sacrifice all their free time. The lesson many learn is to do the bare minimum, those who don't will probably not have friends to support them. [1] https://www.wsws.org... Exams only test what is taught in lessons, unless you are doing higher education. Provided students listen and understand what is being taught, they have nothing to worry about. Teachers are happy to help their students understand things in class and after class, but at the age of 16 they are expected to do research, and will be aware of this. Also teachers often tell their students when they should start their revising so they don't start too early or too late, which reduces stress. The reason students may dread exams more than coursework is because an exam is worth a greater percentage of the final grade. If this is the only reason why students are stressed by them it could be better to have more exams, spread out, and make each worth a low percentage like with coursework. Abolishing exams will cause more students to pay less attention in class, become inconsiderate, and ultimately lead to them wasting their time and not being able to handle whatever life throws at them later in life. It is unrealistic to expect students to learn things they have not heard of. The physics paper I had to retake was due to there being questions regarding things that I wasn't made aware of in class. This issue has only happened once to me, and was fixed quickly. Mistakes can and will always happen whether there are exams or not, it is how they are dealt with that matter, and mine were dealt with very well. Many companies like Argos want employees to work well in a group, and will choose candidates based on how well they perform in group tasks after passing an initial interview. It would make sense to make ""presentation skills"" a G.C.S.E. there is no need to abolish exams. Assessing students relative to their peers ensures a balanced distribution of academic results. It seems like a good system to me but even if it isn't I'm not sure how this supports your argument because a different grading system could be used - exams do not need to be abolished for this reason. Coursework, group work, presentations all have their merits, and often involve researching new material. Exams test more basic knowledge, this is equally important. Without a basic understanding it will be harder to understand more complex things. Exams encourage students to grasp this basic knowledge. I drew your attention to the difference between tests and exams because a source you used, used the word ""test"" instead of ""exam"" which was misleading. The true number of people cheating in exams is just 0.03% [2]. In classroom tests where it possible to sit beside friends, the number of people cheating will be significantly higher i.e. the figure you quoted. [2] http://www.telegraph.co.uk... When students cheat on coursework they may pay a company to do their essay for them, bully someone into doing it for them or put pressure on friends to give too much assistance to play longer and end up getting them into trouble. Various methods can be used to cheat in exams; these cheaters won't harm anyone, and would at least make good notes. This doesn't mean we should only have exams. Coursework is essential because it allows students to think, research, and learn at a higher level. Exams are necessary but for different reasons namely to grasp the basics needed to understand more complicated things. Abolishing exams will have a negative impact. Many thanks for reading"	CON	519
519	S64c53e3d-A1d88fa29	Higher Education ought to be private and indiviuals ought to pay for it themselves.	"It's not point in Germany as country, Germany is given as example whats happens in countries which have no enough experts, which supports my argument 'Every country needs experts' as answer on your original issue 1. It's not all black and white with paying tax. Tax system is 'if you have a lot of money - you pays more, but if you have nothing you also pays nothing' and that's normal. Your education is paid from someone who is also got education paid from someone... On this way you are basicaly paying for your children's education. And there is always one thing- it's much more better that taxpayer's money goes for someone's education than to go on same 'dark ways'. When money goes for education you exactly know where money is going, so this reduces possibility for misuse. 2. Who can guarantee that the same thing will not happen if education is not free? Nobody! Even worse, you have to pay education and you have to returns loan but you don't have job or your job is underpriced! With private Universities you are not solving this problem, you just makes problem worse. Education is not like iphone. We are talking about serious things and you banalize this. Iphone is something that does not affects your future (your salary will not be addict to fact that you don't have iphone). There is always job for those who wants to work! 3. Your description of banks and loans means only one thing- THOSE WHO REALLY NEED LOAN CAN'T GET IT! All that you said means that poor people or alone student can't get a loan because it's risky. And I completely agree with bank's theory, it's normal. So in your system,where free University does not exist, I as alone student without parents support, can not get education. I didn't even got a chance! What more to talk about? 4. I don't know what happens there with private business, but here businessmen gets money from government to start up business. I don't know exactly how much they gets (it's depends on many things) but they get some kind of help from government. (For example, someone can request that country provide guarantee for their job abroad, and country often provide that) 5. Your issue 1 was explained. About issue 3:' In the face of competition, organizations will compete to create a better good at a lower price. This is a basic principle in economics. In this case, EDUCATION IS THE GOOD. By allowing the private sector, not the public sector, this good can be applied cheaper and better.' EDUCATION IS NOT GOOD IF IT'S NOT AVAILABLE TO EVERYONE! How educational system can be good when the main thing in the whole system are money?! Education is not for sale! Knowledge is not a commodity! About issue 4:'However, the government could also improve the economy by raising capitol instead, buying natural resources, or creating projects that create new goods. For example, the government could overspend on investing in labor, thus making the effects of higher education void.' And again - Knowledge is not a commodity! Education is not for sale! 6. I actually explained how Universities make sure that ""bad students"" do not enter or are removed from higher education in round 2, but I will write that again. Every university which is free for students have regulations which prevent 'ever study'. This means that there is a norm that every student must meet if he/she wants to continue education. If he/she doesn't meet norm education is not free anymore (except in cases of serious illness or another strong valid reason). This prevents problems such as 'bad students', 'dissatisfied teachers' and many others. Education is one of the most important things in people's lives. Every men are born equal and everyone deserve opportunity for better life! Knowledge is not a commodity! Education is not for sale!"	CON	520
520	S51e5652c-A8ead0545	Education nowadays should be mostly computerized	"His first real argument is that there aren't enough resources for all students. Again, if you would prefer to work with technology that's fine. if you prefer to use an E-Book that's great. But the passing of the resolution would compel EVERYONE to use it. and it's simply not best for every student. next, he states that since lectures aren't recorded so you could research irrelevant things. or you could borrow a classmate's notes or talk to the professor after your next lesson. he states that some lecturers are very bad. Unless you plan on somehow eliminating professors, they would still have to be the ones to record your notes which would result in a poor professor producing poor video notes. I'm going to skip down to where he ties in computerized learning. 1. again, putting resources online would be a supplement but not the primary method of education ( I would like to point out that he in no way contests that his position as pro advocates for the elimination, or near elimination, of traditional learning methods. thus all of his points involving potential supplements to learning are approaching non-topicality) If you want to use online resources I'm perfectly fine with you doing that. I want students to have that choice. Emphasis on choice. 2. His next point about recording lectures has a few fundamental flaws. first off, some professors teach the same course for a long time thus by the time they retire the curriculum is likely to have changed meaning that a bad professor may be teaching current information while the old professor may be teaching outdated or non-topical information. moreover, this is still just an online resource. recording a traditional lecture for later viewing is not making education ""mostly computerized"" 3. again creating an app would be supplementation not changing the primary method of education. Stop treating them like the same thing. they're not. 4. This paragraph dips into some frankfurter50 or backwardseden level insults. I'm not going to stoop to your level so I'll just address your points and move on. My plan involves people being able to select the method of learning that's best for them. in my plan, they wouldn't have to try significantly harder because they are being compelled to learn in a method that doesn't suit them. The student would have the freedom to choose their method of learning. Your plan involves compulsion and forcing some students to learn in a method that doesn't suit their minds or personality. 5 I believe this program could be helpful if a student is allowed to choose it instead of being forced into it. In conclusion, my plan is all about the freedom of choice. the student must have the ability to choose between virtual learning and traditional learning so everyone can learn in an environment suited to their individual needs."	CON	521
521	Sead6ade4-A1535e744	Frats need regulation, education, guidance, not ban.	"Jeffrey DeSimone. ""The Role of Drinking."" The New York Times. May 6th, 2011: ""Targeting alcohol awareness and education programs at fraternities and punishing them for violating alcohol-related laws and school policies -- and doing the same for sororities -- are seemingly more justifiable interventions."""	PRO	522
522	Sf5635870-A68e47f7	A National Curriculum: Lower Education for a Lowerclass??? I think not...	These kids aren't dumb! They dwell in the lower classes because their parents screwed up, not them. If we dont allow them a better education, simply because they are poor, then they are going to remain poor. Chopping up any hope of a better future for these kids because of their parents mistakes is not fair. Second, this is not an elitist society. Here elitism doesnt even work because those poor ignorant folk who were doomed by the current school system are still voting. Because of the way our country works (and I love the way we pick our leaders) these uneducated people's opinions still count. It is to our advantage to educate them. Lastly, deciding that someone is dumb based on their class is pure ignorance. Ive lived in the most expensive area in the country and I have lived around the poorest areas in this country. i have seen both types of people and every side has dumb and smart people. I have hung out at my friends trailor park and Ive watched movies in a friend's 16,000 dollars basement home theater. A childs intellegence has nothing to do with their social class. It has to do with their enviroment. if schools are placing a stronger emphasis on education, then the kid will care more about their education. These schools in poor areas, aren't. They are trying and they aren't helping the students try. This is a problem that is easily fixed by a national curriculum and a national standard.	PRO	523
523	S8c35ffbd-Aa43b448b	Homework has little educational worth and adds nothing to the time spent in school. Some schools an…	Homework is a vital and valuable part of education. There are only a few hours in each school day – not enough time to cover properly all the subjects children need to study. Setting homework extends study beyond school hours, allowing a wider and deeper education. It also makes the best use of teachers, who can spend lesson time teaching rather than just supervising individual work that could be done at home. Tasks such as reading, writing essays, researching, doing maths problems, etc. are best done at home, away from the distractions of other students.	CON	524
524	S608cdede-Aa65f6a1a	Pressing a button that kills a random person in the world for a million dollars is worth it	So is this is where you lose I claim that one life can not be sacrificed to save many. I quote Robert Nozik, you quote nothing. You simply say it is. You argue unalienable rights with war. War is different. War is kill or be killed. The USA has had a defensive position throughout history. Hell, our Navy (i know my brother is a lt. commander) can not engage an enemy ship without being attacked first. It is kill or be killed. But the person attacking us in war has violated our right to life. Such as, I can extend my arm, but i lose that right if it extends into your face. You have the right to life, until you violate someone else's life. ****You fail to prove utilitarianism and the fact that someones life is NOT merely a number You ignore my argument that someone who is willing to kill someone for no fault of their own would not be virtuous enough to save someone else. Since you ignored this, and the round is over, we must accept that a killer would not save another one's life. So the ONLY outcome from this would be death. Chances. Chances have a funny way of biting you in the back. What would be the chance that the one time i need my keys, i leave them at home. what would be the one time i forget my wallet, i need money the most. what are the chances that i just happen to get to faulty xboxs. in a row. what are the chances that the one time i eat a light breakfast, i am forced to skip lunch. we all have had these situations. The chances are slim but they occur. But these point doe snot even matter. If i win it, who cares. if you win it, all you prove is that chances are u will not kill yourself. But there are many good people in the world that you could kill. *********************So like I said, I should win because I prove that one life is not worth many and I prove that a user of this would not have the intention of saving a life.	CON	525
525	S1ec571b6-Adbddf842	Should We Keep The Electoral College	"“It is bad that we have a 2 party system and we do not give other parties a chance.” We don’t necessarily want other parties to have a chance. In Europe, Neo-Nazi activity is on the rise and is becoming a strong political movement [http://europe.newsweek.com...]. In the US, these ideologies still exist, but they cluster in one of our two main political parties. Those in the center, the center-right, the center-left, the far-left, the far-right, and libertarians, in the primaries, tend to back the establishment candidate. As the establishment wants to get elected, they tend to support the most palatable candidate, and generally that means moderate. While extremists on both sides of the isle express their discontent with compromise, no rational person should oppose a system that promotes moderation and compromise. A national popular vote, by making it easier for third parties to have a real shot at the presidency and gain political influence, would energize the radical base on both sides of the political spectrum, making political polarization even worse than it already is. A two party system encourages inter-party consensuses that promote, rather than prevent, ideological purity. In the 1990s, Democrats protested Clinton’s welfare-reform and 1997 tax cuts. But as they had no other party to turn to, they stayed put, were able to shift the party to the left, and create a progressive wave that led them to victory in 2008. In Germany, the dissenters to such compromises left the party, divided the base, and the feuding between the two leftist parties allowed the center-right party to take control [http://prospect.org...]. Allowing third parties to rise up would complicate the issues, create more bickering, and harm all ideologies. This far outweighs “giving people a chance.” 2. “States like California are unimportant because they are safe states. … do you think states like Wyoming or South Dakota receive 1 visit from either candidate, no.” Wyoming and South Dakota were visited last election. South Dakota was visited once, by Joe Biden, and Wyoming three times, twice by Romney and once by Michelle Obama [http://www.washingtonpost.com...]. A classic case of a “solid” state switching occurred in 2000. The number of registered Democrats in the state outnumbered the number of Republicans two to one. Only 4 times had a Republican ever won the state. Bush won the state by 6 percent because he spent an inordinate amount of time and money there [http://uselectionatlas.org...]. Had Bush lost West Virginia, he would have lost the election. But he was able to make a solid state flip sides--it is now considered a solid red state. This debunks my opponent’s entire argument. California is extremely important to candidates. As it has a huge population, doing well in California has a few good effects. (1) It lets you win the popular vote--although not actually important, it is good to have that on your resume; (2) The state has a huge hispanic population, and by doing well with that itinerant group it allows your party to do better when if they leave the state; (3) if you have a positive impact on the state, you help party members running for local positions (like Governor), and you help your party win Representative and Senate seats. Even if you won’t realistically flip the state, if you put enough effort in to increase your party’s favorability ratings, you would help the party in general--and if you were to win, make multiple new allies in congress. Even safe states, like Texas, NY, and California--are important under the EC system. 3. “You did say Virginia was a small state, if i may quote you, ""New Mexico, Virginia, New Hampshire, and Colorado,"" all small states, have a larger effect on voting outcomes than other states.” Whether or not Virginia is a small state is unimportant. The fact remains that voters in small states, like NM, CO, and NH, have a disproportionate impact on electoral results. The study measured, if you cast a vote in which state, where would it be most likely to change election results. Most of them happen to be small swing-states. However, on a pure weighting basis, you would probably want to move to Wyoming or Alaska to have your vote worth the most. 4. “Winner take all is unfair for states.” As I noted in earlier rounds, this argument is insane. (1) It is unfair because if someone votes for Romney, and Obama wins 50% + 1, all of Romney’s votes were wasted. This is literally my opponent’s argument. But this happens in every election no matter what. Say Romney won with 50% +1 of the popular vote under a direct popular vote. That means all of Obama’s votes would have been wasted! Does that mean elections are unfair? If this was the case, Romney would be co-president. “A” for effort I suppose. (2) This objection is refuted by my counterplan, that my opponent has dropped. 5. “This is not a debate about who would have ran this country better.” Stop claiming red herring when you are the one who brought the topic up. You are the one that mentioned the damage Bush brought to the country in the first place. You can’t say that the argument is irrelevant when you are the one that said it. It is unethical to blame me for going off track when it was you that got us here in the first place. 6. “The electoral college does not make it a battle over what the people like, but who the people in important states like.” Not who the important states like, but the states in general. The important states sway elections, but if the South decides not to vote, it doesn’t matter that Marco Rubio is the best NA and won Ohio, Colorado, Virginia, Iowa, Florida, New Hampshire, and Nevada--he would lose without the help from those “solid” states. The winner wins a majority of the states in general, not a select few “important” ones."	PRO	526
526	S99e6abf2-Ad6f8584e	What to study in college & why? [Career Challenge]	"For our concluding messages, I need to first apologize to my opponent for stating additional careers in the last round. I had misread the original Round 1 post to be ""Post 6-9 careers each round"" and was further confused by the fact that my opponent chose to select 7 in one round and 2 in another round. As such, I kindly ask the audience to strike the later careers from my last round. *** Audience, I believe my opponent and I have had a wonderful exchange. Like you, I did feel the happy energy brimming with each post my opponent makes. However, we must consider that this is not a motivational seminar. This is a debate. As such, we need to consider who won this debate on the following factors: 1. Who proposed the best fields of study? 2. Who did the best job defending their study fields? To answer the first question, we must simply consider the following fact: Every single characteristic that my opponent touts about one his choices has been surpassed by a numerous amount of mine. Whether you are talking about personal fulfillment, salary, or creativity, the choices I have provided have exceeded those of my opponent by far. My opponent himself has praised four out of my nine choices: ""Section 5: Supportive of opponent""s other 4 careers 5a. Pharmacist: Well""someone has to give out the medicine. 5b. Registered Nurse: It is a very good choice for its high employment rate. It is actually a pretty good choice. 5c. Software Developer: In this economy, I have nothing to complain about this field. 5d. Nurse Anesthetist, Nurse Midwives, & Nurse Practitioners: I actually don""t have anything bad to say about this."" Furthermore, my opponent has levied not a single rational point against any of my other five choices, preferring instead to demean millions of individuals working these so called ""blue-collar"" jobs and ignoring the practical benefit there is to mastering a craft, working with your hands, and taking advantage of that job security to propel yourself to success. In terms of defending their arguments, I believe the choice is also clear: Whereas my opponent struggled to cope with the negative realities of every fact I pointed out, with the improper citation of salary, and with stating obvious lies, I have defended all of my opponent's irrational accusations with nothing but rationality and practicality. Examine: ""May I remind you, one year of education will start you off making well over $50,000 annually!"" My opponent attempts to evade being called out upon his lie by saying that he quoted the wrong source, and posts another one with a $53,000 salary. However, he lies again because the salary is a MEDIAN salary (after many years experience), and he never addressed the fact that it takes far more than a single year of education to get to that point! And with all the opportunities my opponent had to defend his points, he squanders it with a semantic argument that I have not listed ""study fields"", but ""career paths"". This is simply ludicrous and desperate. Pharmacists study the field of Pharmacy, Plumbers the field of Plumbing, Nurses the field of Nursing, and it continues with Sheet Metal Working, Elevator Installation and Repair, Software Development, etc. The fact that my opponent has absolutely failed to defend the particular examples he listed for each study field, without lack for trying, is evidence that my opponent was not focused on the semantic difference until now. Note that my opponent never defends the study fields, only the examples. I am not fooled and the audience most definitely is not fooled, and I respectfully request the audience to deduct the conduct point for this obvious attempt at deception, as well as for his *two* attempts at distorting facts about Massage Therapists. *** Audience, let me conclude by pointing out the single thing my opponent has said that destroys his argument. ""Practicality is a sin."" I have spent an enormous portion of my last round showing you, the audience, what the job market looks like. Even given the reality of the situation, my opponent scents all of his time talking about fantastical idealism. My opponent obviously lives in a much different world in which there is no unemployment, no hunger, no need or necessity for housing, clothing, or shelter, and one's only goal is to do whatever they like and they shall be rewarded immediately and to the maximum. If you too live in that world, please vote for my opponent, for his arguments are perfect for that utopia. However, if you, like me, live in reality, please consider that my choices are the ones better fit for living a happy, healthy, and ultimately successful life. Audience, I have nothing against having passion for your job, or striving for success. I only disagree with my opponent's destructive optimism and fanciful delusions. I believe practicality can protect people while they pursue their passions and strive for success, while my opponent wants to ignore practicality out of fear or ignorance of the benefits of keeping a clear mind about something as important as your future. Thank you to my opponent, and to the audience."	PRO	527
527	Se5a44cea-A7102c4f4	The human brains, function, geography, theorem, psychology and upkeep education should be compulsory	"It would cost a lot to hire professors or teach the professors about this new topic. It is very advanced. Students may not even understand any of it. Just an article outlining a ""basic overview"" of the brain is insanely long and in depth. http://www.ninds.nih.gov... There is no easy way to teach those students. Will making people more self-aware be worth the costs? Will it even work? There are already health classes about our body with all its systems, there is no need to teach about such a complex topic like the brain."	CON	528
528	Sc2f75af9-Aab244a7e	The Electoral College should be abolished in favor of the popular vote/run-off system	"""The Electoral System in the U.S. has worked well for centuries, there needs to be an extremelycompelling reason to re-form our entire election process"" Please define ""has worked well""- because I fail to see the correlation between an opinion-based statement- ""has worked well"" - and the numerous arguments against I proposed. ""there needs to be an extremelycompelling reason to re-form our entire election process"" You mean like the fact that the president of the United States is decided by a few states? Or that whether or not your vote counts, and how much it counts for, varies based on where you happen to live? I made these arguments with the hopes that someone would refute them. I hope you do so. ""since my Opponents position is advocating a change in the status quo, he must present a coherent voting system in replacement"" Direct popular vote, if you get a majority of votes you win. It's very simple. The runoff system is slightly more intricate (and I think more fair and effective) and if no candidate wins a majority, the top 2 candidates have a runoff. ""Luckily for me, my system (the electoral college) is already in effect, so I dont need to argue one"" Just because your system is already in effect doesn't mean you don't have to defend it. You've come very close to, and/or committed the appeal to tradition fallacy several times. ""The EC preserves a moderate government"" This debate is about the President, not the government as a whole. ""Without a two-party competition, it would almost be impossible to win a true sizable plurality of at least forty percent"" So your argument in favor of the Electoral College is that it artifically inflates the number of votes for the two major candidates? Exclusion of otherwise very qualified candidates who were unable to gain the nomination of a major party is only another argument AGAINST the EC system, not in favor of it. Your argument also ignores the part where I mentioned a runoff system together with the popular vote. ""Instead of the landslide victories requires by the electoral college"" This is demonstrably and blatantly false. The Electoral College doesn't even require that a candidate gain the most votes, and a candidate can win as few as 13 states (if I remember correctly) and still win the election. ""with DPV the winning candidate is whoever gains the most votes--even if that doesn't constitute a majority. "" Wait, like in 1992 when Bill Clinton defeated Bush and Perot with a whopping *43%* of the vote? And in that same 1992 Election when the brilliant Electoral College system left Perot, who had more than half as many votes as Bush, with the same number of Electoral votes as me. ""The Electoral College provides a good focus for candidates"" Yes. The Swing states- because your vote can count for more than others, if you live in the right state! In 2004 *99% of the money spent, was spent in only 16 States* That's some focus right there! ""Small states, rural areas, and sparsely populated regions would find themselves with little to no voice in presidential selection"" Opposed to the 35 states in that situation now? Good argument. ""In this scenario, a handful of states (or heavily populated cities) win, while the remaining states and less-populated areas suffer significantly"" Incorrect. Under the DPV system, every single person's vote counts precisely the same. So while candidates may not campaign in rural Iowa, they care equally as much about Joe Farmer in Iowa as they do about Jeff Lawyer in New York. As the system is, only swing states matter. In fact, your argument is self-defeating. You say that ""a handful of states win"" whereas that is precisely the scenario the EC creates with swing states. ""A candidate advocating the execution of abortionists, Christ in school books, secession of Texas (*cough* Rick Perry), War in Iran, and the Federal Marriage amendment would probably win in the South"" Would probably? Evidence please? ""However under DPV conservatives campaign to conservatives, and liberals to liberals"" And thus we are left with the top candidates campaigning to the independent/centrist voters. The difference between the DPV and EC here? Under the EC candidates only care about moderates in a few swing states, whereas under the DPV they campaign to EVERY moderate voter across the nation. ""With the EC candidates in order to win must take either a center-right or center-left platform or else they're lose"" No it won't. Winning votes of ONLY liberals or ONLY conservatives will not be nearly enough votes to gain a majority. ""the electoral college ensures that regional concerns are accounted for, preventing candidates from just going to areas with large populations "" Regional concerns being accounted for is PRECISELY the reason we have the House and Senate. You seem to be confusing the legislative branch with the executive branch. The Senate is there to look out for the interests of the small states, not the office of the President. ""Let's be honest, do we really believe that under a system of DPV states lke Wyoming or the Dakotas are going to have any say at all? Of course not"" And this is the crux of the fallibility of this argument. People do not vote as members of the state. They vote as individuals. Under the DPV, EVERY SINGLE INDIVIDUAL has their vote count equally. Under the EC they do not have their vote counted equally, oftentimes not at all. Every single voter in Wyoming has their vote count precisely the same as every single voter in California. One vote equals one vote. ""A president so elected may be more likely to pursue national interests at a cost to state or regional concerns"" We elect the president to take care of national interests, we elect senators (by direct popular vote by the way, as of the 17th amendment) to take care of state interests, and representatives to take care of regional interests. Why should we elect the NATIONAL leader by each STATE? We don't elect state leaders by county, do we? ""If we want to base things just off of population like DPV will, then should we not follow that same line of reasoning and abolish the senate as well"" This logic does not follow. How does changing the way we elect the president have anything to do with getting rid of the Senate? You're creating a strawman of my position. The Senate is there to protect the interest of small states. I don't think small states should get special treatment, nor do I think voters who happen to live in a state where voter turnout is close between two parties should get special treatment. I think one vote should equal one vote, that every single voter across the nation is guaranteed that their vote be counted, and be counted precisely the same. And I do hope in future posts you would be so kind as to address my argument directly instead of copy-pasting from past arguments or other websites."	PRO	529
529	Sedc07ef6-A80087491	Goto College or follow your dreams( when your family deems you a failure and closeminded.)	I totally agree man, I put pro for following your dreams, and parents shouldnt live through their children like that. its just plain wrong. and life is too short to do that. now, if i goto college, im going to go because i want to go, not because i have to.	PRO	530
530	S10c0bcf4-A711709a	Education should be funded by vouchers granted to individual families, not public schools.	Regarding the Supreme Court decision; I am arguing in favor of a system other than the current one, and therefore saying that the court ruling in question is mistaken. In the scenario I am presenting the government is simply not given the means by which to impose regulation on schools that are to receive money. Parents choose where the education money is to be sent, and it is sent there. The only scrutiny needed would be to keep people from stealing the voucher money, but that is hardly the same as government decrees on how a school is run. My proposal removes the government's power to say where education money is spent, making restraint a non issue. My point in bringing up the First Amendment was to illustrate why your questioning religious schools was flawed, but I seem to have misunderstood your approach. You are saying that religious institutions are barred under state law from receiving funds. However, there are problems with those laws. If a family were denied their entitled voucher dollars based on the religious status of a school, it means a state law has imposed a religious decision on that family, making the law unconstitutional. This argument also says nothing of voucher systems in other states or countries, where said laws do not exist. I agree that a fully privatized school system is the least complex system, and a very good overall approach to education. However, it cannot be argued that there are great benefits gained by having as many people educated as possible, and by providing an education to all citizens it ensures that any citizen who wants an education can get one. Since every citizen of a country benefits from a more educated populace, it is not unreasonable to suggest that all citizens should pay for the cost of having one. As I said previously, the Dutch have implemented a system much like the one I am suggesting, with resounding success. This system provides the universal access of public schools, while preserving the de-regulated, competitive state of privatized education. In short, it's a win-win.	PRO	531
531	Sdabcc311-A8e7d1f8	18-year drinking age makes college regulation easier	"""Lower the U.S. Legal Drinking Age to 18"". Online Petition - ""There have been many Colleges and Universities that disagree with the legal drinking age. These schools believe that by outlawing alcohol consumption from those students under 21 is only making the problem worse. If the drinking age were changed to 18, Colleges would be able to regulate alcohol use, so students would not become overly intoxicated. This would probably cut down on the number of College campus alcohol-related deaths, since Campus officials would be able to better monitor alcohol use."""	PRO	532
532	Se6ffa8fb-Aeb079635	It is well known that the ‘education’ is often only a small part of the university experience.	It is well known that the ‘education’ is often only a small part of the university experience. Students spend far too much time and money drinking, partying and wasting time. Even if there is an argument for funding higher education itself (which we doubt) then it is very hard to justify why low income workers should pay taxes to support the ‘student lifesyle’ of people who attend universities. As long as students don’t pay, or understand, the full cost of their tuition, they are more likely to take it for granted and be wasteful as they currently do.	PRO	533
533	S68f43582-Aca9ce74d	Public education in America is the death of freedom	"Thanks for spending all that time putting together your argument, however the sense I get is that you are for ILLEGAL immigration, no matter what it costs the taxpayers. The taxpayers no longer have freedom here and it is due to attitudes like yours. I am guessing you most likely haven't had to get a real job and pay taxes yet so in reality your argument is based on a naive, politically correct, free lunch sort of morality. You seem to consider America to be a cash cow for everyone on the planet to feed from, even though we are 17 TRILLION dollars in debt, and debt is slavery. We are going in debt, with no guarantee of a return, to feed, clothe, educate, and provide health care for people whom a large majority of have paid not one cent to be here, and have blatantly broken our laws for a taste of FREE freedom. Freedom may start with the word free, but it is not about free stuff for anyone that jumps the border, or maybe in your far left, globalist, who gives a damn about the American taxpayers mind, freedom means, ""jump the border and get your free stuff!"" I am a taxpayer, are you? Will you be a taxpayer, or do you want a job paid for by the taxpayers? On your characterization of my comments as nativism, it is untrue. I very much expect that people coming to this country LEGALLY, have the same rights as everyone else. My family did when they came through Ellis Island LEGALLY in the early 1900's, but once here they had to earn their way, they did not expect that laws would be ignored for their favor just because they moved from a poorer country. Your argument ""it's hard to become legal"" , says to me that because there is difficulty getting what you covet then it is OK with you to ignore the law. Xenophobe? I'd rather be considered that then a sneaky border jumping tax dollar thief. To conclude my argument I will say this. The public education system has some very smart and hard working individuals, they are the minority. Most pubic school teachers I had were in the profession for the benefits, good pay, lots of vacation, job security, and massive benefits. They were not there to increase America's standing in the world, they embodied the words ""liberal guilt"". This sense of liberal guilt pervades the school systems in America and many children are fed that BS on a daily basis. America is not the scourge of the world, and certainly the taxpayers are not cash cows to be milked for the gain of selfish border jumpers. Just try that approach in Mexico and see what kind of education you receive for free."	PRO	534
534	S717923bb-A57e12932	A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.	Challenge accepted! Good luck to my opponent. Sit back, enjoy the debate, and have some popcorn:	CON	535
535	Sa80e9f52-A1e8e3f87	Innovation and automation is worth the reduction of jobs	The advancement of technology has been extremely beneficial to society, but a growing trend has been occurring of automation. As automation increases, it begins to replace jobs and decrease positions in the job market and also makes it difficult for first time workers because entry level position will then require certain levels of proficiency that previously were unrequired. However, automation increases the standards of living and is overall beneficial for the majority.	PRO	536
536	S64c53e3d-A73ea7842	Higher Education ought to be private and indiviuals ought to pay for it themselves.	The first round will just be for accepting the debate and clearification of definitions. private - Not owned by the state or government. This this not exempt them from regulations. individuals ought to pay for it themselves - This definition also includes family members or those willing enough to pay for your eduction (e.g charity, employees, or friends) or banks giving out loans. However, this does not include the government or those forced to pay for higher education (e.g taxpayers). higher education - Education after high school dedicated to teaching others.	PRO	537
537	Sacbc3c8e-Af0395ea1	Resolved: Information about contraceptives should be included in sex education classes.	"Before continuing, there are some essential points of knowledge that are needed to be established: {1} The term ""birth control"" was meant to apply to all contraceptives, not just ""the pill."" {2} In this debate, I will be using the term ""comprehensive sex education"" against ""abstinence-only sex education."" Comprehensive sex education is sex education that includes information about contraceptives. With this information established, I move on toward my contentions. [Contentions] Contention 1: Eradicating teenage sex is unfeasible. Despite the success and efficiency of comprehensive sex education in reduing teen pregancy and amount of teenagers engaging in sexual activity, teenagers still engage in sexual activity. Sub-point 1a: Teenagers have a strong probability to engage in sexual intercourse. ""Although only 13% of teens have had sex by age 15, most initiate sex in their later teen years. By their 19th birthday, seven in 10 female and male teens have had intercourse."" [1] ""More than half of all teenagers aged 15-19 has engaged in oral sex. 55 percent of boys and 54 percent of girls have given or received oral sex, while 49 percent of boys and 53 percent of girls have had intercourse. (Tamar Lewin, Nationwide Survey Includes data on Teenage Sex Habits, NYT, 9/16/2005)"" "" By age 18, 70 percent of U.S. females and 62 percent of U.S. males have initiated vaginal sex."" [2] Sub-point 1b: Teenagers face heavy peer pressure to have sexual intercourse. ""One in three boys ages 15-17 say they feel pressure to have sex, often from male friends. Teen girls feel less pressure--only 23 percent said they felt such coercion. Researchers questioned 1,854 subjects between the ages of 13 and 24 in a national survey. The study, released by the Kaiser Family Foundation, also found that teens feel strong pressure to drink and try drugs. The study findings show a need for sex education at a young age, say the study authors. A separate study released this week, sponsored by the NationalCampaign to Prevent Teen Pregnancy, finds that one in five teens reported having sex before they were 15."" [3] Contention 2: Adequate knowledge of contraceptives is essential. Because so many teenagers engage in sexual activity, the knowledge for contraceptives is needed in order to prevent complications, and only comprehensive sex education will achieve this. Sub-point 2a: Knowledge of contraceptives prevents HIV and STD Transmission. ""It is estimated that more than half of all new HIV infections occur before the age of 25 and most are acquired through unprotected sexual intercourse. According to the experts on AIDS, many of these new infections occur because young people don't have the knowledge or skills to protect themselves. To address this important health issue, the American Psychological Association (APA) is recommending that comprehensive and empirically supported sex education and HIV prevention programs become widely available to teach youth how to abstain from risky sexual behaviors and learn how they can protect themselves against HIV and other sexually transmitted diseases. Based on over 15 years of research, the evidence shows that comprehensive sexuality education programs for youth that encourage abstinence, promote appropriate condom use, and teach sexual communication skills reduce HIV-risk behavior and also delay the onset of sexual intercourse. Research shows that one in five adolescents will have sex before the age of 15 and most who continue to be sexually active do not use condoms consistently. Although some youth acknowledge their fears about HIV/AIDS, many do not perceive themselves to be at risk and lack accurate information about what circumstances put them at risk for HIV infection. According to the CDC, the use of condoms can substantially reduce the risk of HIV."" [4] Sub-point 2b: Knowledge of contraceptives aids in the prevention of teen pregnancy. ""The number of teen births in the U.S. dropped again in 2010, according to a government report, with nearly every state seeing a decrease. Nationally, the rate fell 9 percent to about 34 per 1,000 girls ages 15 through 19, and the drop was seen among all racial and ethnic groups. This is the lowest national rate for teen births since the Centers for Disease Control began tracking it in 1940, and CDC officials attributed the decline to pregnancy prevention efforts. Other reports show that teenagers are having less sex and using contraception more often."" [5] Contention 3: Comprehensive sex education is more effective. Because comprehensive sex education realizes the factor of teenage sex being something that cannot be eradicated and provides information about how to prevent problems, it is more effective at ameliorating suffering than abstinence-only sex education. Sub-point 3a: Comprehensive sex education is effective in deterrence. ""In contrast to the limited and discouraging results for studies on abstinence-only programs, the published research on sex and HIV education programs is far more conclusive and encouraging. According to Emerging Answers, “A large body of evaluation research clearly shows that sex and HIV education programs included in this review do not increase sexual activity – they do not hasten the onset of sex, increase the frequency of sex, and do not increase the number of sexual partners. To the contrary, some sex and HIV education programs delay the onset of sex, reduce the frequency of sex, or reduce the number of sexual partners.” 19 Several specific studies have demonstrated positive outcomes from sex education curricula, including delayed initiation of sexual activity, increased condom use, and decreased number of sexual partners. Ekstrand and colleagues 47studied the effects of an intervention titled Healthy Oakland Teens in Oakland, California. The program involved 7th graders in five adultled and eight peer-led sessions. Students were provided with information on HIV and STIs, substance abuse and preventive behaviors. Issues such as perception of personal risk, costs and benefits of preventive behaviors, refusal skills and condom use were all addressed. The researchers found that those students in the intervention group delayed initiation of sexual activity. One intervention, called Reducing the Risk, was found to be effective when independently implemented and examined by different researchers in different locations. Kirby and colleagues 48 studied this intervention in urban and rural areas throughout California through15 sessions in 9th to 12 th grade health education classes. The intervention included extensive role playing and emphasized avoidance of unprotected sex through abstinence or using protection. The control group received existing sex education programs of equal length. At 18 months postintervention, the program was found to have delayed the initiation of intercourse, increase frequency of contraceptive use for females and lower-risk youth, and reduce the frequency of unprotected intercourse among more sexually inexperienced youth."" [6] Sub-point 3b: Abstinence-only is incompetent. "" Researchers at the University of Washington in Seattle found that teenagers who received some type of comprehensive sex education were 60 percent less likely to get pregnant or get someone else pregnant. And in 2007, a federal report showed that abstinence-only programs had “no impactson rates of sexual abstinence.” [5] [Sources] [1] Abma JC et al., Teenagers in the United States: sexual activity, contraceptive use, and childbearing, National Survey of Family Growth 2006–2008, Vital and Health Statistics, 2010, Series 23, No. 30. [2] http://advocatesforyouth.org...... [3] http://www.psychologytoday.com...... [4] http://www.apa.org...... [5] http://thinkprogress.org...... [6] http://ari.ucsf.edu......"	PRO	538
538	S1db3eaf8-A793750f	The cost to the state is far too great to sustain universal free university education	It is far from impossible to pay for free university education. States waste money in many activities, and if they were to cut back on other discretionary (optional) spending then the cost of free higher education would be entirely possible. Cuts to defense spending in countries with overinflated militaries, or ending farm subsidies in many European states, are just some of things states can do. 	CON	539
539	S40f19507-Ad1edb03b	No-Child-Left-Behind detracts from the education of the gifted.	When the focus of the educational system and teachers is on the standardized average, this detracts from the education of those at the low and high end of educational achievement. The gifted will not be taught to their full potential as a result. This has consequences not simply for these students, but for society as a whole, which depends disproportionately on the cultivation of the best and brightest into tomorrow's leaders.	PRO	540
540	S4a5c09b0-A56869984	Radical Life Extension technology is worth pursuing.	Radical life extension is worth pursuing based on how extreme the personal benefits can be. I want to start by explaining how a modern version of Pascal's wager would look. http://plato.stanford.edu... . This modern version of Pascal's wager doesn't have a lot of the shortcomings it's predecessor does either. Wylted's wager 1. Either radical life extension is possible in our lifetime or it is not. 2. If radical life extension is possible and we pursue it we may be able to add an indefinite amount of years to our lifespans. 3. If it is possible and we don't pursue it, then we will die significantly sooner then neccesary. At about 80. http://data.worldbank.org... 4. If radical life extension is not possible and we pursue it then we will at least add several healthy years to our life through diet exercise and life style changes. http://www.ctvnews.ca... 5. If radical life extension is not possible and we don't pursue it then we gain nothing. As you can see the pursuit of radical life extension has several benefits that far outweigh negatives. Why should society as a whole decide that radical life extension is a worthy pursuit. Besides the potential upside of dramatically longer lifespans., there are the side benefits of an overall improvement in the healthcare due to the increased funding of medical research. There is also another benefit of the pursuit causing advances in technology that would have happened at a slower rate then if aggressive means of bringing them about being used. Availability of life extension technologies. We aren't talking about some magic pill here that some scientist will create to give people 100 extra years to live. What we're talking about is incremental improvements in medicine that when they come together give us radical life extension. A one percent improvement in a treatment here a half a percent there. It will be similar To the improvement between now and the year 1900 when most people didn't live past 50. http://demog.berkeley.edu... . This is a 30 year improvement that went pretty much unnoticed by anyone living in those times. This isn't the type of technology that can be hoarded by the rich. These type of healthcare improvements will be driven by your average joe paying for the new improved by 1% cancer drug that just came out. Just like the life extension technologies that have been implemented since the year 1900. What if the bad guys live longer? People tend to mellow out as they age? Testosterone levels lower. As a result of the lower testosterone people become less violent.http://www.sciencedirect.com... Also what if Einsten lived longer and contributed more to science? What if all geniuses lived longer.? With the reduced testosterone and the average person being older you can bet you would run into a higher percentage of non hostile people. Let's not forget manipulating the DNA of yet to be born children would probably be at least one factor in increasing hi an life span. If parents could control a child's DNA to lower the kids chance of getting diabetes they would ofcourse be on the look out for genes associated with personality types likely to commit crimes as well. The technology to help us live longer will also be used to lower crime rate. Would life extension mean living in a horrible state longer? This is why people should have the right to die whenever they want. I'm sure that life in this state would be extended due to improved treatment, but there is also a bunch of people in their 100s that do get around just fine. It's important that people take care of their health so they can die peacefully but there's no reason life extension couldn't mean being able to add a bunch of youthful years as well. It's a mixed bag but atleast if the technology is available we can have the freedom to take advantage of it or just shun it. What about an afterlife? No amount of radical life extension technology will make you invincible. Even with an indefinite lifespan the average person still won't live past 1,000 years. If your a religous person and you want to give up life in the carnal form to go meet your maker then you should have the freedom. With people living significantly longer you can bet people will make sure their government recognizes their right to die. Technology hoarders. Lets give another example as to why technology hoarding just isn't smart. The billionaires who have the means to develop and hoard this technology would be unwise to do so. In order to hoard the technology it means they would have to use a bunch of experimental medicine. If they don't release this stuff on the public so they can have some sort of widespread experiment to work out the kinks, then they are taking a huge risk. Not only do they not have time to work out the kinks in this technology but very few people would be qualified to work on the technology if they needed to. The billionaires need us as lab rats we will have to have access to this technology if they are to survive as well. What about overpopulation and the problems that come with it? Make no mistake overpopulation is an issue that needs to be tackled with or without life extension technology. I think it's wrong to reduce overpopulation by withholding technology that reduces the chance of getting age related diseases. It's funny how the people who are worried about overpopulation would rather take away my freedom to live past 80 then they are to lower the birth rate. Why favor the non existent or the yet to be existent over the currently existing population? Here is a few things you should take into account though. 1. The more industrialized a country becomes the lower the birth rate. http://www.forbes.com... 2. The more industrialized a country is the lower the pollution is. http://www.blacksmithinstitute.org... 3. Technology has increased food production. http://www.coloradoan.com... As you can see the overpopulation problem isn't going away with or without radical life extension. What will help is pushing as hard as we can to bring about more and more emerging technologies. Without emerging technologies we will likely have to deal with the overpopulation problem sooner and in much more ruthless ways. Emerging technologies will at the very least buy us some more time and if we can keep increasing the planet's standard of living we might be able to bring down the birth rates without limiting people's freedom to reproduce. A lot of people have kids because they know they are going to die soon. If radical life extension appears to be on the horizon, a lot of people who otherwise would have kids are now going to pass up the oppurtunity.	PRO	541
541	Sc7831446-A793750f	The cost to the state is far too great to sustain universal free university education	It is far from impossible to pay for free university education. States waste money in many activities, and if they were to cut back on other discretionary (optional) spending then the cost of free higher education would be entirely possible. Cuts to defense spending in countries with overinflated militaries, or ending farm subsidies in many European states, are just some of things states can do. 	CON	542
542	Se8acb758-Ae02238be	Resolved:the Ivy League has lost its prestige and allure as many non-Ivy schools have exceeded them.	"I'm glad that you've conceded that the Ivy Leagues have not lost their appeal...you stated that ""the Ivy League is still highly desirable"". As far as the Ivy Leagues schools not being worth the cost, I guess that would be a matter of opinion to the students that go there. If they don't think it is worth the money then they do have the choice to go elsewhere, yet they still choose to go there. Your statement may have some truth to it as far as exclusivity is coupled with ignorance. Yes, some of the reasons these students choose these schools are for the prestige and exclusiveness, and that may seem shallow and stupid to others...but they apparently are willing to pay for this. Your argument in the beginning however was geared toward the loss of appeal and prestige and I just proved to you that they had in fact not lost either. However, your point about high cost of education is important and perhaps you should start another debate and word your argument a little differently. Thanks for presenting this topic to debate. Happy Holidays!"	CON	543
543	S3b05a433-Af3b1c6df	Physical Education should be taught differently than it currently is.	"I agree with my opponent on the fact that physical education is a good idea and improves the health of the individuals that participate. However, they assume that only fit people participate in PE classes. While this may be generally true, there are some people, while they may not be fit, they still do their best in gym classes. Having mandatory physical education classes where students are forced into running laps and doing countless exercises is a violation to student rights. I do not believe that students should have mandatory PE but I do believe that all students should be EDUCATED on health, diet, exercise, and all of the things that amount up to a ""healthy"" person. I also think that the school should provide opportunities for students to exercise every day since daily exercise is considered the goal for people to be fit. I think that forcing students into taking PE is not right because, while what we have found to be generally the healthy standard for most people, may not apply to all students. Maybe there is a student who has a healthy diet, has a proper BMI and is completely healthy without exercise. Or maybe there are students who do not want to do the types of exercises that the school mandates they do and they might have exercises that work better for them. A mandated exercise routine may not be in the best interest for all students, and therefore, they should have a choice on whether they wish to participate in PE classes or not, while being educated on what is and what isn't healthy is very necessary and should be focused on instead. Defining the ""healthy"" person and then requiring students to live to that standard is bordering on discrimination against other body types and is unjust. 1. Fitness Logs Off of I stated previously, a fitness log would not be the way to take physical education as working out for a certain amount of time and in certain exercises would not meet the wants and needs of all of the students. Maybe a certain exercise routine works better than another. The students would not be able to do their preferred routine in a fitness log since they would be mandated into doing a school-required routine. 2. Increased discipline on participation The school has no right to determine what works best for all of the students, and they cannot expect all of them to participate if they believe that a different exercise routine would work better for them, they do not wish to exercise at all, or they are just not capable of doing the exercises. Having an A or an F in PE would not make any one student more or less fit either. A student may not wish to do the muscular exercises that the class is doing because they do not want their body to become bulky and muscular because they don't think muscles will be of any value to them. The same goes for cardio-vascular exercise as well and for all exercise in general. The school should focus on educating the students on what is generally best for them and what they recommend they do. If exercise is not an asset to the student, then having PE classes is simply a waste of their time. If a student wants exercise, it should be their own responsibility to get it. A person can be completely fit off of home exercises that do not require gym equipment. If a student wants special fitness education such as swimming or gymnastics, that is also their responsibility. Schools often don't have the equipment for those types of things. If a student is refusing to exercise, then it is up to the parents to define their body as not fit and sign them up for exercise rather than the school. Then again, if a student wishes to be obese or wishes to be skinny and have no muscles, then that is purely their choice. Attempting to make PE more ""effective"" would only strain the students who do not wish to do those exercises more and more, adding to the overall discontent with fitness classes. If we teach students what makes them healthy instead and leave it up to them to make their own choice to follow through with anything they want to do, then we would avoid those problems."	CON	544
544	S93ca0001-Ab5d8fa36	The Humanities are an important part of any Education Curriculum	I look forward to a great debate Uchi! I accept the definitions as they have been laid out, and agree to the rules as stated. I will attempt to provide sufficient warrant for the claim that The Humanities are (of great value) to any Education Curriculum. This should be an interesting debate. Good luck! Bring your A-game; I sure will!	PRO	545
545	S93ca0001-Ad47885ca	The Humanities are an important part of any Education Curriculum	I doubt any of that will be a problem, given Pfalcon's history of being an honorable opponent. There are a couple of important definitions for this debate... Humanities- subjects relating to the study of human culture; generally includes art, architecture, music, literature, the performing arts, and the history of each of those subjects. Important- of great value Education Cirriculum- subjects included in a course of study at a school or university I look forward to a great debate! Good luck, Pfalcon :)	CON	546
546	Saf13dc4a-A639ec6ca	That a human life is intrinsically worth more than the life of an animal	"Pro has taken a pretty novel approach here, for which I have to give him credit. If I understand it correctly, it's because humans have done such a wonderfully thorough job of screwing up the world that they are so valuable - because only they have the power to fix it? But very few seem to actually believe this line. Look at all of the futuristic novels, movies and TV series. What sort of future do Mad Max (The Road Warrior), The Living Dead, The Dark Hour, On the Beach, Damnation Alley, The Road and The Dark Hour represent? It's not one of butterflies and rainbows where humankind have solved the problems of the world and created a glorious utopia. How many authors/screenwriters can Pro think of that have proposed such a future? The destruction and mayhem that humans have already caused is not an argument for their continued existence; if anything it points to how much better off the planet would be if we all just disappeared while there is still a chance for it to heal itself. Pro raises the question ""can killing the child benefit the worms, horses, giraffes, etc.?"". Well, not directly, although the nitrogen and other trace elements in his body could benefit the soil, resulting in increased vegetation, which would benefit them indirectly. Obviously killing Harambe didn't benefit any other animals either. The point is, from the time that the child climbed/fell into the gorilla enclosure, there was only one possible way in which the situation could have ended without a tragic and needless loss of life, that is if the humans who were screaming at the top of their lungs had shut up, and the zoo officials had let the situation play out. Jane Goodall, who knows a thing or two about primates, suggested she thought Harambe was acting protectively towards the child, and a number of experts agreed with her. Instead, because of the stupidity of a great number of human beings, an innocent gorilla lost its life. Pro has not demonstrated to this point why that life is any less worth preserving than a human life. Finally, I wish to address Pro's next to last paragraph, in which he suggests a number of things: ""We have more emotions"" For a long time, scientists assumed animals lacked emotions. There is less and less belief in this as our knowledge grows. Almost no one now doubts that all the higher mammals experience the full range of emotions that we humans do -including fear, sorrow, anger, despair, joy, love and hate. What I find puzzling in the extreme is how anyone who has ever had anything to do with any form of higher mammal could ever have doubted this. ""speaking languages, understanding each other"" It's the ultimate in human arrogance that because we cannot understand their languages, we assume other animals don't have them, and can't understand each other. Have you ever seen a flock of hundreds of birds in flight simultaneously change direction? Try getting a mob of hundreds of humans to do that. Dolphins and whales have been shown to employ complex strategies, involving high levels of cooperation, in order to trap and catch prey. Lions and tigers on the hunt work in perfect unison as a group, without making a sound. The fact that they communicate in ways we can't even properly understand doesn't make them inferior to us. Dolphins have been reported to have learned a vocabulary of up to fifty human words. How many words of dolphin does the world's greatest marine biologist understand? ""as well as create civilizations"" A great many animals create civilizations, including some we think of a quite lowly. Bees, ants and termites have quite complex civilizations. The thing that distinguishes most animal civilizations from human civilizations is that, whereas they might sometimes have tribal ""wars"" in a similar manner to humans, in most cases their civilizations seem to be internally harmonious, and work together for the common good - which is most *unlike* human civilization. And finally, ""Humans can define for themselves what is ""good"" and what is ""bad""."" Yes we do. And invariably, what is ""good"" is anything that promotes our own happiness, comfort and safety at the expense of the fellow inhabitants of the planet. As a species, we think nothing of using their flesh for food, their skins for clothing, furniture and vanity items, and we put them through appalling suffering for our own ""entertainment"". And this is what makes us ""superior""? The chief mistake we make as humans, and the trap into which Pro has fallen, is that we define important characteristics according to what benefits us. We think we are great because we can build skyscrapers and rockets (and atomic bombs), because we can perform differential calculus and create symphonies. But our fellow inhabitants of the planet have evolved with no need for any of these things. How many lions, giraffes or bison commit suicide each year because they can't cope with the demands of their modern societies? How many are suffering stress and anguish because they are working 60 hours per week and still can't pay their bills? We say we are so superior that we are far more worthy to live than any of them, and yet the facts demonstrate otherwise."	CON	547
547	Saf13dc4a-A304cbe00	That a human life is intrinsically worth more than the life of an animal	"Hello again and thanks for the response. The point is not about whether or not the world will end up as a dystopian place at the hands of humans. I agree that humans are responsible for the anthropogenic activities and poor decisions that affect this world. We are the problem and we are also the solution. You said, ""...it's because humans have done such a wonderfully thorough job of screwing up the world that they are so valuable - because only they have the power to fix it? But very few seem to actually believe this line. "", and then you provided post-apocalyptic novels. Well, what about the Book of Apocalypse of the Bible? It ends by painting a utopian ending for everyone who are morally good. The Giver, The Hunger Games, etc. provide a hopeful conclusion to humanity. However, we are kinda getting off topic. This topic isn't about the failures of humanity. It's about the dominant control that humanity imposes on animals (in this case, mammals). My argument was that humans are more superior and intrinsically worth more than animals because we can make animals drop on their knees, feeling helpless and vulnerable to the problems that we have caused. Killing Harambe also benefited other animals too indirectly. Since the zoo is one animal short, they can help protect an endangered animal by keeping them in the zoo instead of being hunted, i.e. a giant panda. If not, the budget for Harambe could be used to take care of the other caged animals. Jane Goodall could have been right that the gorilla was being protective of the child but how do we retrieve the child from the gorilla without provoking it? Harambe could have thought of the child as his own so he would become naturally aggressive, leaving the zookeepers with no choice but to shoot it. You mentioned about humans knowing what is ""good"" and what is ""bad"". You said, ""...what is ""good"" is anything that promotes our own happiness, comfort and safety at the expense of the fellow inhabitants of the planet."" I don't see what you are trying to convey here because animals do the same also. Dogs hunt birds and squirrels for fun as well as hyenas steal food from other predators. Now, my definition of ""good"" and ""bad"" is more about knowing the rules. Animals do not have their own rules. They can commit incest and for them, it is nothing wrong but for us, we view it as depraved. This makes us superior because we have a deeper knowledge of the world around us. Furthermore, human emotions are taken to a whole new and deeper level as compared to animals. For example, humans show their sad emotions by shedding tears while animals do not. We also feel betrayed and hurt when our partners cheat on us. Animals do not. You mentioned speaking languages in humans. I acknowledge your facts but I was trying to point out how all humans have the ability to learn a new language among ourselves. Can a lion and cheetah understand each other even if belonging to the same family? No. Can they learn new ""languages"" of each other's ? No, they cannot. You said, ""The chief mistake we make as humans, and the trap into which Pro has fallen, is that we define important characteristics according to what benefits us. We think we are great because we can build skyscrapers and rockets (and atomic bombs), because we can perform differential calculus and create symphonies. But our fellow inhabitants of the planet have evolved with no need for any of these things."" You claimed that animals were living in harmony until humans arrived. Weren't fish in peace until bears arrived? Weren't gazelles in peace until big cats arrived? I can't stress enough how humans have the ultimate knowledge known to nature (exception of the Higher Power). Humans evolved from a cell much like any other animal yet we had the deepest knowledge, adapted faster, etc. but why did we change the world so much? The bottom line is humans are superior because we just have the knowledge, feelings and the ability to put any animal down on its knees."	PRO	548
548	Sc2f75af9-A6da92a76	The Electoral College should be abolished in favor of the popular vote/run-off system	"This is going to be a pretty messy debate, since my opponent chose to go with the ""shotgun method"" of argumentation as opposed to refuting my contentions individually. I'll begin refuting his assertions now. 1. Swing states --> TURN: Swing states encourage moderation since swing voters can vote for either candidate. A right or left wing extremist will lose in swing states. --> No impact argued, who cares? 2. Lock states --> No impact argued, who cares? --> This is how elections work. It's not like the candidate who wins 40% of the vote gets to be in office 40% of the time, elections ARE winner take all. The difference between having votes counted at a state level or at a national level is merely symbolic. 3. Chaos --> An electoral college tie has never happened, and mathematically is extremely improbable. This is a poo argument, I could just as easily say ""direct vote can tie"" even though thats mathematically improbable. --> No impact argued. Why exactly does it matter if the house chooses the president...? 4. Small victories This point is nonsensical. Elections are, by their very nature, winner take all. 5. Small parties --> It's nonsensical to criticize the EC for having two ""main"" candidates, when a runoff system does the exact same thing. --> No impact argued, who cares? 6. Constituancy --> TURN: The electoral college fits the federal nature of the United States. The president is not the supreme leader, but rather the representative of the federal government to work with the representatives of the states, so it makes sense that the president would be decided by each specific state individually. --> Saying that other officials are elected in other ways is not an argument. --> This is a false argument. Senators and representatives do not ""govern"" their individual districts, they represent them in the federal government. Refer back to my turn. 7. Senators --> This isn't even an argument. Not using something something to elect senators has nothing to do with the president. Refer to my response to his 6th argument. --> Since the president is a figure that has to work with all states, the electoral college is set up, just as the legistlature, to give a voice to the smallest states. They have a voice larger than their population to keep the large states from swamping the small states. This isn't a concern for the election of representatives, since districts are SET UP to make sure that the people in them generally have the same interests. I actually think it would be better to elect senators by the state legistlature to ensure that all interests of the state have a say instead of just the majority, but that's beside the point. 8. All votes should be counted --> No impact argued, who cares? --> The electoral college goes with the popular vote around 96% of the time, while still preserving the federal nature of the United States. That's a good trade-off, especially since many of the discrepancies were the result of voter suppression. My opponents arguments have literally no impacts at all--you prefer the status quo since he gives no compelling reason to change it. ==My case== It's going to be difficult to answer all his attacks since he didnt do them by a contention basis, but I'll do my best. Recall also that I've already won the debate since he gives no impacts and the status quo is preferred by default. To my observation one he replies with some rhetoric that votes count more or less in certain areas. Whatever. The fact is that under DPV or the EC it is UNDECIDED VOTERS who are being courted. Eliminate the EC and you have the votes of undecided people having their votes seem more important than those who are already decided. He gains no solvency. 1. Moderation He basically drops this argument. His only responses are strawmen. The argument was that the EC forces the larger parties to absorb the interests of the smaller, and more radical ones--something that DPV doesn't make happen. He either completely misunderstands this or can't think of a refutation to it, so I'll extend it. Again, there is no need for moderation when the only goal is to get to the second round of voting and then get selected as the lesser of two evils. There is no need for compromise, and as such minority opinions get completely ignored. Compare our system to Europe (which has DPV), where the parties are much more extreme, and the damaging effects of radical ideologies like socialism can better be observed. He argues that a candidate can win ""as few as 13 states...and still win the election."" This is likely true...but the reason those states have so many electoral votes is precisely because they have higher populations...victories in all of the large states would be an almost certain popular vote victory--especially considering that these states are highly polarized. He cites the example of the 1992 election to try to disprove my point..except that voters still favored Clinton over his opponent by a wide margin. TURN: Elections like 1992 show the large parties that they need to attract swing voters. Ross Perot doomed Bush I, but the republican party picked itself up and reformed its platforms to sweep the 1994 elections. 2. Focus He drops the Heritage card showing the results of implementing a direct popular vote, and the group polarization effect. So extend the impact that polarization will increase, and cross apply this concession to contention one. He completely misunderstands this point as a matter of fact. Non swing states have plenty of say. The fact is that swing states, by being swing states ARE a good focus for candidates...they have on balance a more moderate ideology, which means that cnadidates cant win simply by being extreme in their own ""safe areas"". Party platforms are more moderate, again compare with Europe. His sole argument basically relies on ""well every vote needs to be equal"", but what he isn't understanding is that they ARE equal in each state. And under the federalist model, the states decide the president, not the people. He again misunderstands the point, arguing that one vote is one vote, but the fact is that under the EC small states do have higher representation, to give them a voice that they would lack under DPV. Under the EC politicians campaign in both large and small states because there are many swing states. This ensures that more peoples interests are accounted for. Most of his arguments against my contentions lack substance, or ask for evidence for predicted events that haven't occurred. He posits that the house and the senate are for regional concerns, not the president. Ermm, the president is supposed to represent the federal government to the states, so obviously he has to take regional interests into account when trying to get federal action to take place. Recall also that his entire argument falls apart when you look at the solid fact that its incredibly rare for the popular vote not to follow the electoral vote. He asks: ""why should we elect the NATIONAL leader by each STATE? "" because the ""national leader"" is not that...he's the leader of the federal government. There's a difference, and since states are supposed to have power themselves as well. 3. States He drops the Cato card, so extend that impact. That's CRITICAL, because he has no offense, and since drops=concessions, I now do. I win by default. His response makes no sense, so the senate, which gives small states disproportionate representation, governs the whole nation, and is elected state by state (sound familiar?) shouldn't be abolished, but the EC, which is the EXACT SAME THING except it's one individual being elected instead of 100 should be abolished? His reasoning is fallacious. Finally he tries to argue that ""We don't elect state leaders by county"" except we do...not counties, but districts. This way, the interests of all communities are represented. Since the pres. is but one man, the EC is the only way to ensure this representation still happens. Vote Neg."	CON	549
549	S8c35ffbd-A2d24b8a0	Homework has little educational worth and adds nothing to the time spent in school. Some schools an…	Homework has little educational worth and adds nothing to the time spent in school. Some schools and some countries don’t bother with homework at all, and their results do not seem to suffer from it. Studies show that homework adds nothing to standardised test scores for primary/ elementary pupils. International comparisons of older students have found no positive relationship between the amount of homework set and average test scores. If anything, countries with more homework got worse results!	PRO	550
550	S816da028-A2514fb66	Resolved: Direct popular vote should replace Electoral College	"Ok, so I am going to clarify the difference between constitutional republic and democracy in elections. By definition, a republic is a representative form of government that is ruled according to a charter, or constitution, and a democracy is a government that is ruled according to the will of the majority. In politics, it is a constitutional republic. The president represents the people and makes the decisions. In elections, it is democracy, because it all depends on the people and the president is chosen according to the votes or ""majority"". In the case of Electoral College, to be more specific, US is a representative democracy. Either way, US is still a democracy in terms of choosing the president, which is what we are debating about right now. I hope this has cleared things up. Going on from this, I have stated quite a few times that elections is all dependent on the people, not the candidates or the government. Seeing this, doesn't it make more sense that we should do this in a way that PEOPLE want, not the way the government says? After all, this election is about people choosing the president who they feel will be the best for them. But how can we do this if many people are not being heard? My opponent states that it protects the smaller states from the bigger states, but the fact is, many people, more than what could result from Direct popular vote, are being ignored. In direct popular vote, states don't matter. All votes are equal, they are all heard, so every person has at least a say in this. In Electoral College, the minority in a state are ignored, many states with less votes are not as important, so some people don't even get a say. Also, sure two party seems great if you want to run in either the republic or democratic, but what if you have other opinions? Even if they run, they are as good as not running, because they won't get as much as influence as the two major parties. I would just like to emphasize on the fact that PEOPLE ARE NOT BEING HEARD.There are swing states that the candidates only have to focus on, so what good is it for you if you live in a state with only one vote? You know your vote won't count as much against others, so how can this be FAIR? One vote equals one vote, not two or three. It doesn't matter it protects the smaller states from the bigger ones, because there are flaws where many states are at disadvantage. So if you want a fair vote, have an equal say as others, and want your voice to count, vote for pro, because by changing to direct popular vote, the government will make sure your votes are not being ignored, and it won't matter what state you live in."	PRO	551
551	Sbd70c81e-A230cc191	We should follow the example of Finland's education system.	YO YO YO I just wanna make one thing very clear to the people of the internet. I like dickss! And there is nothing wrong with being homosexual, my opponent is discriminating against everyone. Bad boy, bad boy whachu gonna do, when the liberals come for YOU!!!!!!!! OH GOOD GAMME> So internet people, vote for me cause I am one of you guys. I am amaze #yoloswagger #420 #education #rights #ohyeah #money #hashtagking #nospacesinhaashtags.	CON	552
552	S9873a24d-Accf79744	Affirmative Action (when used in the college application process) is a bad policy.	There will be no actual character limit, if one side of the case would like to post a link to a Google Document they may do so. Of course, the case is that most people will not read such long debates, so I will try to keep within the 8,000 characters that debate.org allows. The first round is for acceptance and acceptance only. No definitions will be presented, nor outlines of arguments. If the Con side of this argument does post any definitions or outlines, they will immediately have forfeited this debate. Con will be arguing that Affirmative Action (when used in the college application process) is a good policy. Either side may present new arguments up until round 5. Round five will be strictly for rebuttals and closing analysis.	PRO	553
553	Sc9466f76-Ab27373b9	Single Sex Education is Better than Co-Education	"Thanks to my opponent for countering my points so lucidly and clearly. Here are my counter refutations: 1. Children will gain sufficient exposure to other genders in their adult life: I agree with my opponent's point that children will get many more opportunities in their lives to learn to interact with the people of other gender, but now-a-days it is very necessary to learn that at a very early stage. Students need ot interact confidently with the people of other gender, at a very early age, to get a good job or work at a place where both men and women work. 2.Children shouldn't be taught that ""they are worse than boys"" in some subjects. My point was not that children should be told that they are worse than boys, but they must realise that there are some students who are better than them at some subjects and they need to improbe themselves to survive in the competition. Just escaping the fact will not yeild any good result. 3.Teachers can easily show kids two perspectives and let them learn from the experience: I dont understand how a teacher can teach the students perspectives of the two genders. What I meant in my point was, if boys and girls are allowed to learn the same subject in the same class room, they will give different opinions about the same subjects and generate some new ideas. The class will become interactive and the students will also see the subject with different perspectives. No teacher can provide students what they would have gotten by interacting and discussing with one another. 4.The efficiency of teachers are very reliant on specialized methods: It may be true in some cases. But, it can't be said that all girls will be benefited by learning the way girls should read. We can not say that only teaching boys and girls separately is enough to focus on their needs. Every student has different learning style and capability irrespective of his/her gender. People may say that students of different races,religions or ethnicity should be taught separately as they also have different learning abilities. This doesn't end anywhere. Every child has differennt needs and it is impossible to focus on every child's needs individually. 5.Having girl cheerleaders teaches children that girls should stand on the sidelines while the men do the work. I don't agree with this point. Cheerleading is a very popular sport and many girls are interested in cheerleading. As a school student, i can say that these things may not be necessary, but they definitely make school life interesting. Interaction with students of other gender is very essential to get out of boredome and dull school life. Academic results are not everything. Everyone feels good while hanging around with a friend circle which has both boys and girls. In fact, making students study in single-sex schools will make them think that boys and girls are different and they should not be friends. I would like to counter some of the counter-refutations made by my opponent: 1.Single-sex schools teach students that gender differences are in the mind, and that they can explore any subject previously deemed ""boyish"" or ""girly"" without fear of being judged: Will making boys and girls study at different schools make them think that no subject is boyish or girly? Students, today, live in a world which has no restriction on knowledge. They interact with people and learn things over internet. Moreover, if only boys/girls study in a school, then also boyish and girly tag on subjects will exist. 2. the chauvinism of men is perpetuated in co education schools: First of all, they are just young children. In a school where both boys and girls study, girls learn to compete with boys and prove themselves as better students. And i dont believe that any cheerleader feels herself as inferior to men or that her duty is just to cheer for men. It is fun. Girls enjoy cheerleading and they should be encouraged to do so. I dont think it creates any kind of opinion in the young students' minds. 3. We cannot be teaching girls that certain things are off bounds because they are dominated by men. As i know, even girls are allowed to play different sports. The point that just allowing them to cheer for boys makes them think that they can not play sports is frivolous. Girls are not forced to cheer for boys, they choose to do so themselves. They cheer for their school team, not boys in particular. All the schools have boys as well as girls sports teams."	CON	554
554	S1bd03141-Aa9d431d8	Rescuing our Failing Education System	"A competitive system would also be a great tool, but there are too many factors that go into that kind of system. You say that a Charter school system receives public funding, but where is the funding coming from exactly? If it comes from the taxpayers, then how are you going to decide which taxes will pay for one system and which taxes will pay for the other? And if you choose two different tax systems to fund public school and charter school, isn""t there a likely chance that one will get more funding than the other? Generally a school does better when it has more funding, so you can""t really judge school systems efficiency based on their scores if one has more access to newer material than the other. A public school could be just as good as the charter school if it was given equal funding. I am not opposed to charter schools and private schools; my argument only lies with the public education system. I think charter and private schools should be left to their own choices. The public school system is what needs to be remodeled. And before you dismiss the German school system, let me explain it a little bit more in detail so that you can understand. The Hauptschule (grades 5-9) teaches the same subjects as the Realschule and Gymnasium, but at a slower pace and with some vocational-oriented courses. It leads to part-time enrollment in a vocational school combined with apprenticeship training until the age of 18. These are for those students who struggle in class or fail to put in the same effort as others. Instead of being forced to graduate with a certain GPA average, their strength in certain classes and weaknesses in others determine which future job(s) they will be trained for that do not require that high of an education. The Realschule (grades 5-10 in most states) leads to part-time vocational schools and higher vocational schools. It is now possible for students with high academic achievement at the Realschule to switch to a Gymnasium on graduation. The Gymnasium leads to a diploma called the Abitur and prepares students for university study or for a dual academic and vocational credential. Curricula differ from school to school, but generally include German, mathematics, computer science, physics, chemistry, biology, geography, art (as well as crafts and design), music, history, philosophy, civics, social studies, and several foreign languages. In recent years many States have changed the curriculum so students can get the ""Abi"" at the end of the 12th grade. Other States are making the transition but may still require a 13th grade. The Gesamtschule, or comprehensive school, is only found in some of the states. It takes the place of both the Hauptschule and Realschule. It enrolls students of all ability levels in the 5th through the 10th grades. Students who satisfactorily complete the Gesamtschule through the 9th grade receive the Hauptschule certificate, while those who satisfactorily complete schooling through the 10th grade receive the Realschule certificate. These classes focus on the more difficult subjects like math and sciences (as well as arts but more in depth that the previous schooling) which can be hard for many people to comprehend. I also would like to add that the German system requires students to learn MORE THAN ONE foreign language through all their years in school which I think would benefit everyone when they finally enter into the workforce. Beyond the Hauptschule and Realschule lies the Berufsschule, combining part-time academic study and apprenticeship. The successful completion of an apprenticeship program leads to certification in a particular trade or field of work. These schools differ from the other ones mentioned in that control rests not with the local and regional school authorities, but with the federal government, industry and the trade unions. No matter what kind of school a student attends, he/she must complete at least nine years of education. A student dropping out of a Gymnasium, for example, must enroll in a Realschule or Hauptschule until nine years have been completed. Students are required to study at minimum one foreign language for at least five years. A second foreign language is required in Gymnasium. This gives students the option of graduating from a less educational intense school. Instead of their be a standard across the whole nation, the student can opt to take easier courses (of course that will hinder what jobs they can apply for later in life, but that is their decision ultimately). German students at public schools attend school in the morning. Classes normally start between 7:30 and 8:15 a.m. and can end between 12 noon and 1:30 p.m. Class periods are normally 45 minutes long with a short break in between. There is no provision for serving lunch. There can be a lot of homework and heavy emphasis on the ""three Rs"" - reading, writing and aRithmatic. The curriculum expands as students move up from Grundschule and depends on which of the three secondary schools they attend. I realize this contradicts my previous comment about longer school years, I admit I was wrong on that one, but if anything it should make the German system more appealing. You have shorter school days with longer breaks and while they do assign much more homework, you are also give a lot more time to complete it. The school year consists of two semesters and normally starts around the middle to end of August. There are longer breaks at Christmas and in the summer. Shorter breaks are around Easter and in autumn. There is no school on public holidays. The Christmas break is usually 2 weeks and the summer break is about 6 weeks. The exact dates of the various vacations and breaks are set by the individual L""nder. (http://www.howtogermany.com...)"	PRO	555
555	Sc1b61f69-Acc36bd53	Mixed-sex dormitories should be the only dormitory type permitted at higher education institutes	"Thanks to my opponent for their response. Regarding Bennet91's statement I am not sure whether to reply to it or not. It is attributed, but it also comes from the comments section of the debate. However, so as not to lose argument points for a failed rebuttal I really have no choice. This argument presented by Bennet91 is invalid for both reasons presented below. Number 1, it says some parents have ""traditional views against co-habitation (even if they are not in the same room).”. This ignores the fact that cohabitation is legally defined as “A living arrangement in which an unmarried couple lives together in a long-term relationship that resembles a marriage.”.(1) This means that the couple has to actually be involved in a relationship that resembles marriage i.e. the same room and sexual relations. If this is not happening this cannot be classified as cohabitation. Additionally, I need to point out here that my opponent in fact needs to provide verified statistics to show that males and females are incapable of sharing the same room without getting sexually involved for this position to be valid. As such the bold appeals to emotion such as “promotes fornication”, “morally compromising situation”, “At least gays being together won't cause college pregnancies” or “a ""friend with benefits"" situation. ” are all ludicrous statements that have zero backing and imply that males and females cannot be friends. I am sure if any of my female friends read this, they would be horrified to think that we have to have sex as that all mixed gender relationships are capable of. Secondly, when Bennet91 says “a portion of parents pay for their child's college education” this is true. However, if they feel that strongly against an equality and society beneficial system, they are free to seek private housing where they can embrace their “traditional” sexist? values. Counter Arguments My opponents response to my equality argument is that “""20 % of the population is attracted to the same sex"" doesn't mean they are entirely gay.” So? What does this have do with anything, I mean sure some of these people have bi-sexual orientations? In fact if we bring in bi-sexual orientation this value will probably be higher than 20%. I really have no idea why my opponent points this out and elaborates on it to such an large extent, as this was a statistic I brought up which I even said could be the normally accepted 10%. My opponents critique of my argument for society is that meeting potential mates and creating long lasting business relationships can happen at a “more respectable time, it does not have to be while people are in their dormitories”. However, this ignores the fact that Facebook and Microsoft were created by roommates/dormitory mates.(2,3) So essentially by forcing people to share close quarters two businesses with a net worth of 122 billion dollars were created.(4,5) Now, while some of these relationships have gone sour the overall benefit for society would not have existed if these relationship did not happen in the circumstances they were forced to happen. Regarding the criticism of shared bathrooms. This would be a valid criticism if shared bathrooms were not already getting legislated on a large scale.(6) Additionally, as adults I am sure that the males and female can come to an agreement on when and if they they want to share the same bathroom as happens already at the University of Maryland.(7) My opponents criticism to my eradication of sexism argument start of with a false statement “this is less of an issue in most European countries.”. This is Con putting words in my mouth, I in fact talked about the USA and Britain as just two examples where sexism is less prevalent. He then goes on to attack my argument that this could never happen in Saudi Arabia as men will mistreat women and says that the only reason that this same situation could work with races was because “essentially race is just skin colour. Gender however is a lot more.” What rubbish, the only difference between men and women is a chromosome which leads to different sex organs and different thinking methods. If race is only skin color, then sex is only breasts. This is just a way for my opponent to avoid my argument which says that by forcing mixed genders to share a dormitory it will surely force men to be respectful of women. This assumption is based on that race example given in my round 2 argument. While my opponent does stress they are not sexist, this does not detract from the line of argument that women are made to look weaker than men. This is not true. Additionally, if a sexist man gets married to a women what does this have to do with the argument? Should I be claiming that some serial killers also get married so we should let serial killers roam free? Rebuttals to my opponent arguments: My opponent says that his position in this debate is “The whole point of my side in this debate is that those ""rights"" aren't a good thing. ”. when referring to straight people being afforded the same right as homosexuals. This means my opponent needs to prove that discrimination against straight people is morally and legally acceptable. I look forward to this argument my opponent will surely put forward in their next round. In closing my opponents arguments fail as they have no rational evidence based backing to make them stand up under scrutiny i.e. men and women can't be friends or heterosexuals deserve less rights. With my arguments in tact I hand the debate back to my opponent to make some positive arguments that verify his contentions. (1) http://legal-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com... (2) http://en.wikipedia.org... (3) http://www.nytimes.com... (4) http://www.celebritynetworth.com... (5) http://www.celebritynetworth.com... (6) http://edition.cnn.com... (7) http://www.resnet.umd.edu..."	PRO	556
556	S9873a24d-A8c86b227	Affirmative Action (when used in the college application process) is a bad policy.	"I would first like to point out that we will not be debating the idea of affirmative action, but how the policy acts in the status quo. bad: ""morally reprehensible"" as defined by diction [dictionary.com] 1. Status Quo When first suggested, Affirmative action meant: to give preferential treatment to minorities and other historically oppressed social classes in the admission process of universities [1]. Nowadays, it more means something along the lines of: reverse discrimination. Affirmative action began as a policy to correct historical discrimination and to make up for oppression of certain minorities in history. Though the greater diversity in schools, areas of work, and general communities may suggest that this policy is a clear success, the behind-the-scenes of this policy prove it to be both unfair and offensive to both the majority and minority students. The diversity now, as opposed to the diversity of 50 years ago is much greater, admittedly. However, because affirmative action in the past had succeeded to an extent, nowadays it seems to lead to more problems than solutions. When viewing the pros and cons of affirmative action, the first con people usually think of involves court cases. One example is the case argued between the University of Michigan and three white students claiming that the policy that rejected them from the university was raced-based discrimination [2]. While most assume affirmative action to be a policy to end discrimination in the educational system, it only seems to swap the roles of who is being discriminated against, and who has the advantage. 2. Reverse Discrimination Affirmative action, instead of reversing the effects of discrimination, is reverse discrimination. The main objective of this policy is to end discrimination and the effects of unfair treatment of students based on their race. However, it does indeed do the opposite [3]. The majority students who apply to universities can be passed over solely because they are within this racial class. Contrary to most stereotypes, there are many people of the majority (race-wise) that live in poverty. However, the way that affirmative action is currently set up, a poverty-stricken student that falls into the racial majority of society, who works as hard as he can and fairly earns his place at a university, can be passed over by a rich minority student who has not worked nearly as hard to earn that place. 3. Standards of Accountability Affirmative action also lowers the standards of accountability that are needed to encourage students to work harder and perform better [4]. If a minority student is able to earn a spot in an Ivy League school with a 3.2 GPA, why would he push himself to get a 4.0? If a student has the chance to get into an Ivy League school with just a 3.2 they wouldn't pull work to boost their GPA above that mark. Though some students may be self-motivated, most need that extra push or initiative to do as well as they possibly can. By lowering the standards for admission into universities, the policy of affirmative action lowers the level of accountability. Hard work, discipline, and achievement are the qualities that need to be rewarded because when we reward a student based solely on their race, we punish another because of theirs. 4. Ill-Equipped Students Even when students are admitted on this basis, they are ill-equipped to handle the school's actual curriculum. Imagine asking a science fair contested to take a rocket scientist job at NASA just because they won 1st place at the fair. This is essentially what affirmative action allows. Minority students, who do not have the qualifications needed to succeed in the school, are admitted anyway. The possibility of success in these situations is extremely low, and over their heads. Ivy-League schools have very high GPA and SAT requirements because it takes a lot to be able to graduate from these universities. When these schools are forced to lower their standards to achieve diversity, some students are just unable to keep up [5]. Some would argue that this is to say that the students are less capable, but the fact is, if they cannot reach the minimum requirements for the university they are not ready for that level of education. The low graduation rate of minorities is proof of this fact, because they are going to schools that don't match their own abilities. 5a. Condescending to All. Not only is it unfair to the students of racial majority, affirmative action is condescending to minority students. To say that the minority students need affirmative action to succeed is condescending in its entirety. Though the intention is to strengthen diversity, doing this by allowing minority students into schools that they are not qualified for is insulting. Though a less qualified minority student would be grateful for this policy, the more qualified would be deeply insulted. If a minority student makes a high GPA, that student will not know if it is because of their grade or their race that got them into the school. Because colleges do not send you a letter explaining on what points you got accepted on, many minority students that are accepted into top-notch schools are uneasy about why they got accepted. Most people in general like to know that they are good enough for something. A sense of pride is healthy in students when they get into college because they know that their heavy work has finally paid off. However, you take this feeling away from minority students because they could easily be accepted based off of just their race. Some people may claim that some stereotypes will never be broken without this policy; however it is clear that this policy only seems to enhance these stereotypes. For example, some stereotypes may say that blacks are less capable than whites. Because of affirmative action, this stereotype is only expressed in a 'nicer' manner. 5b. Achievement Assumed Affirmative Action Affirmative action demeans true minority achievement. In other words, a person of the racial minority group will be labeled as successful based solely on this policy and not the hard work and brightness of their character [6]. Barack Obama, Oprah Winfrey, Herman Cain and Colin Powell are just few members of the racial minority that are known by their success through hard work, and because they've earned their places in power. Any of these examples would be clearly offended if they were accused of getting to where they are strictly because of this policy. This can also be said of minority doctors and other leaders in the work force. Too often, their success is demeaned by people who believe that preferential treatment got them to where they are today. Thus, affirmative action forces minorities to prove themselves in ways that majority students would not. 6. Unable to say goodbye. Affirmative action is not a policy that once enacted will be easily removed. Even if the underlying discrimination has been compromised for, affirmative action is still quite tough to remove after being enacted when it comes to college admissions. Even though in almost all areas of the country, racism and discrimination have become a thing of the past, the fact is that affirmative action is still hard to remove. After doing its initial job, lawmakers and policy makers move slowly and must haggle over everything that may pose controversy in the future. Even if racism is much less of a problem now, affirmative action is a policy that will take quite a time to be removed. It's extremely difficult to get hundreds of people and branches of government to agree. Because affirmative action is considered a political policy, it is too controversial of an issue to immediately revoke. [1] http://tinyurl.com... [2] http://tinyurl.com... [3] http://tinyurl.com... [4] http://tinyurl.com... [5] http://tinyurl.com... [6] http://tinyurl.com..."	PRO	557
557	Sb1603109-Ad542a118	"Supporting Ron Paul is a fad and considered ""cool"" by college students."	"Recently I have gone from detesting Ron Paul, to detesting Ron Paul supporters. Most Ron Paul supporters are college kids who don't know much or even care much about politics but are absolutely in love with Ron Paul. It speaks for America's youth that a candidate can get support by merely including the word ""love"" on his banners in a semi-clever way and name dropping websites like google and youtube. Are my peers so impressionable? Or is it just that I live in red state Arizona? This is less a topic I want to fervently debate than get some insight to. If you are angry after reading the topic of this debate, please do not debate me."	PRO	558
558	Sed52489a-Afa1527c9	Selective education leads to an unfair bias towards the rich and the middle classes	If more selective higher education were to happen, we would revert back to 50 years ago where hardly anyone from a working class background had the chance to go to university because of social prejudice and a lower income than the middle classes. This would lead in turn to those from middle class backgrounds being favoured by employers as they would be more likely to have a university education, and the lower classes would be stuck with the unwanted, lower paid, manual labour. We should do all we can to strive for a meritocratic society and not move backwards away from one. You say that it will not be based on the basis of social or financial background. But how can you regulate this? In countries where the government doesn't make significant contributions towards an individual's tertiary education, personal finances are the only way to attend university, and that must be balanced by a person's other daily costs etc. In that way, without strong financial backing attending university and surviving concurrently would become rather difficult! Furthermore, whether we like it or not, the fact is that in our society higher income does mean better education. If your parents rich you will have attended the best schools, have had access to the best resources etc. Someone who grows up in a single-parents household on the minimum wage obviously would not, and therefore, regardless of their true potential, their academic results and educational outcomes would reflect their financial circumstances. Therefore, even if it is correct to say that entry would not be directly affected by a person's financial background, it almost definitely would be indirectly. It is a curious fact that people actually believe educational outcomes are a result of 'talent', rather than circumstance. Most children who end up in the few grammar schools left come from middle class or well-off families. if we took 10% less people in Universities like Oxford or Cambridge many people of whom have worked all their life of a chance to get in to a red brick University. Since 100's of people worke to get these grades get let down just because the other child had a better schooling from his partents money. Many students strive of a education at Oxford but most let down, because of these caps. Our hard work for nothing!	PRO	559
559	S7064c844-A859cba4f	DDD's 30th debate: Physical Education SHOULD be a requirement in schools	Thanks, DDD. Sorry for the delay. Due to really tight time constraints, I will only be posting one contention this round (which is okay, according to the rules). My other ones will come in subsequent rounds. C1) Physical Education classes are ineffective In the average physical education education class period, students are only active for about 16 minutes (http://www.nbcnews.com...). Obviously, that is not enough to give any sort of substantial benefit, as health professionals recommend that at the *very least*, a human should get 30 minutes of physical activity per day in order to stay fit (http://www.cdc.gov...). PE classes barely even provide for half of that, showing that they are not nearly useful enough to warrant making them mandatory. It would be much cheaper and effecient to just develop programs to create health awareness within students. I will go more in depth on the financial aspect and alternatives to PE classes with my later arguments. Anyways, this contention alone negates the resolution, because in order for something to be required, it must be necessary, and I have shown that PE classes are far from that. Back to you, Pro.	CON	560
560	S863dddcf-A87d6732e	Formal education (K-12) ought to be compulsory in the United States	"PRO 1A 1. You cannot prove that E, when made C, yields higher rates of graduation compared to non-compulsory education. 2. I don't understand the thinking behind this claim because it doesn't make sense. Minorities usually don't succeed in society or at least have a much lower probability of doing so; it's always been this way. Explain or I'll be forced to drop the argument. 3. List was to provide examples that didn't require college degree, not alternatives to a diploma. 1B 1. Pro resorts to a logical fallacy known as a strawman here. There's no base to believe that institutions would deny certain kids E if it were to be made non-C. 2. I'm not going to sketch out a policy to you. Basically, the only difference between CE and non-CE is the C part. Otherwise, it's reasonable to assume nothing else has changed. Everyone in the US still has the ability to go to school, it's just not required but highly recommended. After all, pro has stated and I agree that at least a diploma is necessary to live a decent life. Furthermore, pro does not realize that by eliminating the C part of E, we *may* end up lowering the significance of a diploma which isn't a bad thing at all. People don't need a diploma to be intelligent and people certainly aren't smart just because they own a diploma. Of course, that's not to say it wouldn't be important still. 3. Understood but I'm not sure if you were making an argument with that. 1C 1. You are presupposing that underserved students receive equal E opportunities to begin with (by a large portion of your definition). I'll post this source again because you seem to be overlooking it. As for the privatizing/voluntary model comparison, I don't exactly see how they're related; perhaps pro could elaborate. See: http://health.usnews.com... 2. Yes, it is the state's job to provide citizens with basic necessities. Not only do I agree, but how many times have I said that myself throughout my rebuttals? You say that the tax dollars are only given to these students because CE exists. Tell me why they wouldn't if E was made non-C or provide proof that they wouldn't. The last sentence is one of my problems with CE - it's not supposed to be a support system. That's what things like shelters and welfare are for. It's supposed to be an E system first and a support system last. When we negate the resolution, we do not close our doors to the underserved children and have potential to provide better education since tax money isn't wasted into what pro dubs a ""support system."" 2A 1. This wasn't over whether or not they were concepts related to problem solving, it was about whether or not they were useful. Furthermore, for the average person on the average day, they are completely useless. Also, persuasive writing is useful tool but not everyone needs or wants it. For example, I live in a box with A type monkeys and my friend lives in a box with B type monkeys. My friend uses a lava lamp to get the monkeys to dance for him. For him, the lava lamp is a useful tool. On the other hand, I use a screwdriver to get the monkeys to dance for me. For me, the screwdriver is a useful tool. All tools are useful but only in the hands of someone who has to apply them or chooses to. I apologize for the silly analogy. 3. Pro claims the meat of her arguments lie within 2A. It's a shame that all they deal with is E reforms and improved teaching methods, not the resolve. Sure, they may have defeated my C1; that's up for the voters to decide. However, it will not do pro any good to rely on this to win the debate because it has little to do with the resolve. 2B 1. I will address it and I counter with the fact that not all E systems within CE are adequate. These kids within inadequate educational institutions are (which DO exist, pro) left at a disadvantage even with a diploma. The state can only offer the opportunity to the child which is there regardless of C. Even within non-CE, anyone can still get an education. Pro cannot prove otherwise. 2. I don't see how I'm acting like that. I'm just saying that a lot of pro's assertions that, ""Non-C can't account for X"" are completely baseless and I've offered numerous reasons as to why for each assertion. Yes, all pro has to show is that the benefits outweigh the negatives. However, pro has had a lot of difficulty with this due to my valid rebuttals. Keep this in mind, voters. 3. Okay, I'll try to summarize this. The main benefits in a pro world that pro thinks *can't* be achieved when we negate are 1. providing for the underserved and 2. ensuring everyone has a chance for education. #1 has been explained, same with #2. The benefits when we negate are 1. an educational system more focused on educating and not supporting and 2. less trivial truancy cases. When the taxpayers can stop paying money to worry about supporting underserved children, they can instead focus on further reforms which pro praises. The people that are now seemingly completely ""unserved"" will be forced to turn to welfare. If they are not eligible, then I contend they are not truly underserved. Pro may argue that the parent may not be sensible enough to apply for welfare. I have but two responses: 1. child services and 2. common sense. It's only natural to assume that *most* parents will apply for welfare when it is necessary, especially when attempting to support a child and being unable to. Secondly, when E is made non-C, laws like truancy will longer be in effect. This saves the state a lot of hassle for kids who are just going to drop out anyway [1]. I'm not dismissing the importance of their education but at some point, people become a lost cause. 1. http://www2.ed.gov... CON C1 1. You can't prove that education is useful without dismissing my assertion with an argument from ignorance. A diploma is necessary for a living but I've already stated that having a diploma doesn't make you educated. 2. Sure, at lunch. It is not the schools job to feed them their essential meals. 3. My first contention is not crucial for me to win this debate. 4. Actually, if you read between the lines, you could deduce that I was arguing towards E in general but held malice at the fact that what I felt was useless was also C. 5. Apply my 4. I've proved as pro claims I must to win the debate. C2 1. When do I explicitly say all parents are equal? I don't but you think I'm acting like it. Same thing can be said of pro with schools, teachers & students. CE doesn't fix this and non-CE can still have standards. 2. Sure, except it does nothing to show that E *ought* to be C. Kids can learn essential skills in a non-CE school. 3. Standards movement can continue with non-CE. Skip 4. I will cover my C3 in RD4. I apologize for cutting this short."	CON	561
561	S23e4ddc5-Af90fc389	The U.S. Federal Government Should Abolish the Department of Education	I would like to argue that the Department of Education should be abolished. I would like this debate to be somewhat similarly structured as Team Policy debate. I will be using stock issues and the such, and I have the burden to prove. The con simply has to refute my points and win any of these issues. A. That the harms I present in the status quo are not significant. B. That my plan does not solve my harms. C. That my plan is not the only way to solve the harms. Looking forward to a fun and educational debate!	PRO	562
562	S928598bf-A2fcd5247	The only war worth fighting is the one against inequalities	"Hi, Nice to meet you and thank you for your statement. I (Pro.) wholeheartedly support this statement with a passion. Is it not our greatest goal? The goal, that once achieved will bring enlightenment and completeness to this world? "" There are more prominent wars to be fought against like for example the war against poverty. A society in which some people have millions of dollars a year to live on and others have tens of thousands ""(Con.) If we digest your statement above, you describe the war on poverty; a war against those with and those without, by common definition. I counter your statement by calling upon our friendly scholars at Cambridge for the dictionary definition of 'inequality', I quote: ""the unfair situation in society when some people have more opportunities, money, etc. than other people:"" Cambridge.(1) In your opening statement you define the very thing you stand against, you describe inequality in its most despicable form. Your second statement. ""Would it be fair to fight for one thing only because we have a weakness for that particular subject over others and leave the other? Wouldn't it be fatal?"" (Con.) I again call to arms our Cambridge scholars who in defining inequality impose it to no single subject matter. It is a broad sweeping statement, a definition meant to capture any and all types of inequality, or to use your words, and and all things which are deemed to be. ""unequal"". I put the question to you? What matter if any can supercede the war on inequality? (1) http://dictionary.cambridge.org..."	PRO	563
563	S51e5652c-Af335a524	Education nowadays should be mostly computerized	"I will be arguing that modern technology must be balanced with traditional textbooks and pen-and-paper note taking. The average number of Google searches per day has grown from 9,800 in 1998 to over 4.7 trillion today. This may not be surprising, since we""ve all come to appreciate the thrill of instant information. But while it""s certainly convenient to have the sum of all knowledge at our fingertips, studies show that the ""Google effect"" is changing the way we think. In an experiment published in Science Magazine college students remembered significantly less when they learned on the computer. the ease of access to the internet has conditioned our minds to dispose of information as it can be accessed later. Essentially, we utilize the computer to save energy on encoding information into our long-term memories. Neuroimaging of frequent Internet users shows twice as much activity in the short term memory as sporadic users during online tasks. Basically, our brain is learning to disregard information found online, and this connection becomes stronger every time we experience it. So the more we use Google, the less likely we are to retain what we see. Our brains use information stored in the long-term memory to facilitate critical thinking. We need these unique memories to understand and interact with the world around us. If we rely on Google to store our knowledge, we may be losing an important part of our identity. In order to balance this effect, we need to use the computer in order to facilitate learning which must first be done in a more traditional sense. In regard to my opponents case, 1. he states that you can upload lessons on the web. however, if that comes at the cost of a decreased capability to then retain that lesson it's essentially worthless. 2. He states that you can share resources like reading materials and exam papers. Since we've already established that most learning should be done on paper, we then have to remember the principle of state/context dependent memory which basically means that if an exam is conducted on the computer and the learning took place on paper, you will see decreased test scores. I do believe that conducting group assignments could see increased efficiency with programs like google docs and would not affect learning as long as it was coupled with traditional classwork. 3. He says that we should ""regulate progress and attendance via different apps including geolocation apps. Do you mean schools tracking students? I'm just against that as a matter of principle. it's simply not their right. 4. I believe that another valid use of technology is out of school communication between students and their teachers. It could only facilitate learning so I'm fine with it. 5. For his next point regarding drilling material and taking notes I would reference you back to my case and my points against learning on the computer. 6. This point suggests that my opponent is arguing in favor of complete virtual classes which would mean that all learning would have to be done on the computer which as I've said, would harm learning. 7. in regard to lowered tuition, If you're in college and can choose your classes and choose the school you go to, and you choose to go to a school that has complete virtual learning (emphasis on choose) that's your right as an adult. While that may lower tuition costs which may be an equal trade off for some in regard to decreased learning. I do not, however, believe that it should be a universal mandate among all colleges or high schools. 8. he states that students can go at their own pace instead of others and complete more material. I believe that we should not force other students to have their learning compromised with the flawed mandate of virtual learning and instead students who can't keep up in class will need to take responsibility for their own learning and take the initiative to get extra help from their teachers or from a tutor. ""Google Annual Search Statistics."" Statistic Brain. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2013. 2 Sparrow, B, J Liu, and D M. Wegner. ""Google Effects on Memory: Cognitive Consequences of Having Information at Our Fingertips."" Science. 333.6043 (2011): 776-778. Print. 3 ""Smartphones Account for Half of All Mobile Phones, Dominate New Phone Purchases in the US."" Newswire. Nielsen.com. The Nielsen Company, 29 Mar. 2012. Web. 30 Apr. 2013. 4 Small, G.W, T.D Moody, P Siddarth, and S.Y Bookheimer. ""Your Brain on Google: Patterns of Cerebral Activation During Internet Searching."" The American Journal of Geriatric Psychiatry : Official Journal of the American Association for Geriatric Psychiatry. 17.2 (2009): 116-126. Print. DR Godden, AD Baddeley - British Journal of psychology"	CON	564
564	S474849b5-Abde5e549	Electoral College	Arguments extended.	CON	565
565	Se8acb758-A1c1c890c	Resolved:the Ivy League has lost its prestige and allure as many non-Ivy schools have exceeded them.	"Like I said before, you can obtain just as good, if not better, education at some of these other ""cost-effective"" schools. However, your argument was that the Ivy Leagues were losing their prestige and allure(ment). As far as location, I was simply using that as an example that just as location is a major factor in successful real estate, so is history and reputation when it comes to education. Schools like Harvard provide ""prestige"" and often provide ""connections"" which make it easier to get a high paying job. It's not necessarily fair, but many employers associate Harvard with higher intelligence and prominence and will be more likely to hire the person with that school on their resume. I personally don't think one has to go to an Ivy League to obtain the best education or to become successful. For that matter there are many who have become millionaires without even finishing college. Both the founders of Microsoft and Facebook are Harvard dropouts....and there are several on the Forbes top 500 richest people who dropped out of other colleges. However, your argument is contending that these schools have lost their appeal...once again I ask you to look at the articles stating otherwise. What things are Ivy League schools not providing for but students pay for anyway? In your opening argument you mention that they are overpriced because of ""old buildings"" and ""old geezers"". Now you are saying that they are paying for something they are not getting? I'm sure that those attending Ivy Leagues are well aware of what they are paying for and if not ""Daddy"" sure is."	CON	566
566	S64c53e3d-Ade7f915d	Higher Education ought to be private and indiviuals ought to pay for it themselves.	"1)Germany is not going to collapse. This might be a minor problem, but Germany is not going to collapse. It is funny that you argue that Germany is going to have a problem not finding experts, considering that higher education is public and many of the universities are free ""Most colleges are state-funded. In 2010, five of the 16 states of Germany charged tuition fees at state-funded colleges, while in 11 states tuition was provided free of charge"" 2)""Every hospital and medical centre (which are financed by state) have constant sum of money for medical research, and that money could not be used for paying workers. So surplus will not affect investing in technology etc. Also, nowhere in the world exist company which will employ more workers than it's needed and more workers than can be paid. So there is no dangerous for reduced investments."" You're missing the point. There are two problems. First off a large supply of experts creates a low demand for them, thus lowering their wages. This causes experts to spend many years in school and gain very little in the end. Second, economics is all about allocating goods and services efficiently. There are three main sources (some consider creativity and entrepreneurship to be a fourth category) that those come from: labor, capital goods, and natural resources. These sources can be distributed in anyway; however some ways are better than others. In a capitalism society, businesses do this by figuring out which method is most profitable. It would be more profitable for a business to use labor instead of capital goods or natural resources, because labor is UNDERPRICED! So where is the hidden cost coming from? It is because education is free and taxpayers pay for the education, thus society loses in the end. This is analogous to everyone getting a cheaper iphone because the government subsidies iphones. Sure it might seem great for everyone, however since people are paying it through tax money, it does not work out that well. 3)If you're referring to how banks make sure that you will pay your debt. Well, interest rates are based on your credit score. If you have a low credit score, it is considered risky, and you will either not receive a loan or receive a loan at high interest rate. Sometimes, one's parents can use the house as collateral. Also, if one does not pay back money at the right, then he/she will have to pay more money later. If the person cannot pay for the loan, then he or she can declare bankruptcy by a court. In bankruptcy, assets are liquidated and/or part of one's debt is partially or completely relieved. Businesses do not expect the government to give them money to start up businesses. Instead they expect to get their money through investors. Why shouldn't the same logic apply to individuals who want a higher education? Both higher education and businesses help the economy, yet businesses do not receive help from the government yet higher education does. And the reason has to do with my original points. CON has not addressed many of my original issues (1, 3, and 4) and still hasn't explained or given details how universities make sure that ""bad students"" do not enter or are removed from higher education. I await CON's response."	PRO	567
567	S1901e6eb-Abdf0a5b6	The Electoral College	And now it is up to you. May your thoughts be clear, -Thoht	CON	568
568	S55c05f7c-A36f97834	The Electoral College Should be Abolished	"I will now now return the favor in this round. As a sidenote, the last round will be counter-rebuttals (rebutting each other's rebuttals). I look forward to continued intellectual discourse. With the risk of sounding redundant, since I am arguing for the status quo and Pro is against the status quo, my opponent has to completely disprove *all* of my points to be 'wrong' for him to win. Failure to do so will result in a loss for Pro. If the conclusion from the voters is that PV (popular vote) and the EC (electoral college) are equally efficient, EC wins as it is already in place. Now onto rebuttals. I will respond paragraph-by-paragraph to my opponent's case. ====REBUTTALS==== Minority votes per state bears no weight I. The result would be the same either way. The majority, even if slight, gains additional point(s) to the winning candidate. Failure to disregard minority votes in big states (such as California, Texas, Florida, New York, etc.), will be unfair to the majority votes in small states. The reason for this being that the minority votes in California, for example, would greatly overpower the majority votes in small states (e.g Wyoming). This would completely undermine sparsley populated states and therefore would make them virtually voiceless on *all* votes. In order for representation of rural states, this part of the EC needs to be in place. This point will be further elaborated on below. II. In this paragraph, my opponent argues that lots of people in non-swing states are discouraged from voting as their vote does not count. It is a baseless assertion to make such a major claim without backing it up with ANY data. It does not make a difference either way. Non-swing states are decisively blue or red, so they will vote for the same candidate regardless. My opponent has to *undeniably prove* that enough people would vote against the majority candidate in the PV method to change the result in the election for this argument to hold any relevance whatsoever. I can garauntee it will not as non-swing states are called solidly blue or solidly red for a reason. Changing the voting system will make no difference. An example of non-swing states voting the same either way: California, the most populated state in the country, is only 34.6% red [1] while multiple states have voted red (Alabama, Mississippi, Alaska, etc.), in the past seven elections [2]. It can be determined reasonably by this that the result would stay the same no matter what in such states. III. Every vote counts in every state. If it weren't for people going out of their way to vote red in Texas, or blue in California, then the elections would be completely different. As such, it is important to vote no matter what state you are in. Pro has made another baseless assertion. Unequal population representation The House of Representatives is lawfully set to be 435 [3]. To get the number of voters each representative serves we take a census once every decade. Once the census is taken, the powers population is divided by 435. By law, each state, no matter how unpopulated, needs at least a single representative in order to be voiced in the election. Without such a rule, minority states, such as Wyoming, would have no say in the election. They would be overpowered in a PV and would be completely voiceless. We cannot have this, as every state needs to be heard. Wyoming only has a population of 582,658, [4] but each member of the House represents, on average, about 700,000 [5] people. Wyoming has to be given a slightly disproportionate number of representatives in order to have ANY say in the election at all. If given an exactly proportionate amount of electoral voters (0) or abiding by PV rules, Wyoming, (and other unpopulated states) would be non-existent as far as the election and campaigners are concerned. This is unjust, as 582,658 people wouldn't be heard, which is contradicting individual liberty. This is also the case with every state with a population under 700,000. That means with PV (or an exact proportionate number of representatives) the District of Columbia, Vermont, and Wyoming would all be COMPLETELY disregarded as they all have populations below 700,000 [6]. Moreover, these are the only three places with a disproportionate amount of voters. My opponent will have to justify giving no representation to multiple states in order for this argument to hold any value. President with minority vote still gets in I. As stated above, every state needs representation, so PV is actually the one contradicting democracy as it leaves millions voiceless. Also, such occasions such occasions as the 2000 elections are a rarity, and only have happened four times in US history. With the exclusion of the 2000 election, the last time such an event happened was in 1888 [7]. Before that, it only happened twice, both more than a century ago. Further, no plans are without flaws such that I have shown PV has an equal amount or more, I have proven my point. Perhaps improving the EC itself will be in order, but not abolishing the entire system that has successfully led this country for centuries in exchange for a much more flawed system than an un-fixed EC. II. Con, with the help of a YouTube video, has asserted that it is possible to win the presidential election with only 21.91% of the population voting for you. This is actually very unlikely given that the EC almost always reflects the popular vote (40/44 times) [8]. Lastly, as explained above, small states need a *slightly* disproportionate number of votes to have ANY say. With PV they would have NO say. As such, PV would be much more harmful to the voting of minority states. Third party candidates get nothing Similarly to above, the result would not be changed dramatically regardless. Regardless of the system in place, third party candidates will not recieve enough votes to make a significant difference in the election. The winning result, whether Pro wants to admit it or not, will be the democratic or republican candidate. As such, the EC mitigates pointless votes to third party candidates and makes it so all votes count toward the only two actual realistic choices. Additionally, technically third parties would be represented in EC as well, however they wouldn't recieve enough votes to be in the two most dominant parties, therefore this point is irrelevant as third parties are given a fair chance to make a difference in the election even with EC in place. This does not justify changing the status quo which has been in place in the United States for centuries. ====Conclusion==== I have achieved the following: -Proven my opponent's arguments wrong/irrelevant. -Shown how many of Pro's arguments can be turned around on the PV. -Demonstrated that many faults in the current EC system would be worsened further in a PV election. -Proven that completely terminating the status quo would be more harmful than beneficial. -No system has no flaws, however the PV has many more flaws that the EC. ====Sources==== [1]: http://www.nbcchicago.com...... [2]: http://thehill.com...... [3]: http://history.house.gov......;(go to the paragraph titled ""current practice"") [4]: http://quickfacts.census.gov...... [5]: http://walberg.house.gov......;(under ""how many people do congressman and senators represent?"") [6]: http://www.infoplease.com...... http://quickfacts.census.gov...... [7]: http://www.factcheck.org...... [8]: http://www.factcheck.org..."	CON	569
569	Sb1603109-A813d97b3	"Supporting Ron Paul is a fad and considered ""cool"" by college students."	"I agree with you, many people stop caring about an election after it ends, but they shouldn't stop caring aout the candidate(s) they support. It is a fad, in that the majority of people supporting Ron Paul now with enthusiasm will cease to do so after he loses, and he will lose. I don't think the ""love"" argument could be made for other politicians because values and strength have always been desireable attributes of a president. Love, traditionally has not been. Althought I think it should be, I think the Ron Paul people are using it as a gimmick, playing on the love and hippie trend that has become popular as of late. ""Ron Paul's appeal is that he actually wants to talk about things such as philosophy of government, causes and effects. When terrorism is brought up he doesn't just spew out something stupid like, ""they are freedom haters,"" but actually uses history to explain why things are the way they are."" This is true, but it's also true of almost every democratic candidate and many other Republican candidates as well. I think that issues ""you feel"" are important. I have listened to Ron Paul and his ideas and I think they stray from Libertarian values on top of at times being non-sensicle. I'm not a Libertarian and neither is he, but almost everyone who supports him is. I think a lot of new Libertarians don't understand what it means to have libertarian ideals and mistake them for Republican ideals. ""If they were getting involved just to be cool, they would probably support Rudy Guiliani since he has been on Saturday Night Live."" I don't think that's true, besides, I'm not claiming that he's cool because of any of the conventional ideas of what cool is. He is radical and that may play a factor, I don't know. ""Besides, when I go to Ron Paul rallies, college students make up the small minority."" That may be true for you, but I disagree. Although I've never been to a Ron Paul rally, I find the people most passionate about talking about Ron paul are college age kids. I just think that Ron paul supporters spend their time talking about what they think they know about his campaign, and spend for too little time researching the constitution for example which they seem to mention a lot of. Or any other candidates. This may not be you, but in my experience, it's a lot of Ron Paul supporters."	PRO	570
570	S40f19507-Aa0c8ba62	NCLB funds faith-based orgs for supplemental education	"No Child Left Behind and Faith-Based Leaders. United States Department of Education. Retrieved February 18, 2009 - ""Faith-based organizations can receive funds to provide tutoring and other academic enrichment services for eligible low-income students. Religious organizations can become supplemental educational services providers by applying to states and then working with districts to provide services directly to students in reading, language arts and mathematics. Many faith-based organizations are already providing these services in innercity and rural communities across the country, where assistance is needed most. Faith-based organizations often find it useful to establish their program as a not-for-profit (501c3) to receive funds."""	PRO	571
571	S1901e6ad-Ab8a8a55a	The Electoral College	That's fine. I will not post a response here because it would not be fair, and this was supposed to be a rebuttal to your argument anyway. I wish you well on whatever troubles you're facing right now.	CON	572
572	S1901e6ad-A93a1e375	The Electoral College	I accept and look forward to this!	PRO	573
573	S1901e6ad-A13aff949	The Electoral College	I will post main case in Round 3 along with rebuttals. I apologize for falling behind. Personal issues...	PRO	574
574	Sa05dcf19-A6cd0d897	The Electoral College Voting System In the US Should Be Replaced	"Argument Electoral colleges are ""a body of electors; especially: one that elects the president and vice president of the United States."" Source: [1]: http://www.merriam-webster.com... Presidency By the help of the electoral colleges a specific individual will be able to gain presidency. The founding fathers new that most people would try to steal this presidency. Here is what they have written in the constitution: ""A popular election in this case is radically vicious. The ignorance of the people would put it in the power of some one set of men dispersed through the Union, and acting in concert, to delude them into any appointment."" -- Delegate Gerry, July 25, 1787. Preserving Federalism The Founding Fathers knew that that Electoral Colleges would be able to fix corrupt federalism. Federalism is the ability to share power between the states and the main government. By the constitution, people are required to choose their leaders that will represent them in the U.S. State Congress. Technically, this is about electing an official from any state so he/or she can gain leadership in D.C. and represent his/or her state. Electoral Colleges Represent Democracy Electoral colleges represent democracy. The United States of America represents democracy under the republican government. According to the constitution, ""The United States shall guarantee to every State in the Union a Republican form of Government..."" People will be able to elect the officials through this process. While electing their new leader, the government will be able to avoid the direct election dangers (2). Sources: [2]: http://usgovinfo.about.com... Prevents Run-off elections Electoral colleges avoid run-off elections. We will still be able to elect the proper official if the two candidates won't get the popular votes. For instance, Richard Nixon received 43% of popular votes, but won 301 votes in the college system. Electoral colleges will always have the ability to elect the right leader for this nation (3). Sources: [3]: http://www.businessinsider.com... Everyone has a chance to be included in the system Everyone will have the opportunity to be involved in the governmental system. The South received more votes from Romney because it has a hire republican population, but there have been a few states in the North that voted for him as well. Everyone will have a part of the system. Certain Outcome Electoral officials share the popular vote. For instance, Obama had 61.7% of popular votes while Romney had 51.3% of popular votes. It is possible for both candidates to receive the same amount of votes, but it has a very low likelihood (4). Sources: [4]: http://www.slate.com..."	CON	575
575	Sd0766dd3-Aa384d3d3	Electoral college	"We agree NPV represents the will of the people better than EC. NPV always, and EC only sometimes, gives them what they want. The only questions left for debate are: 1. whether elections exist to give the people what they want or what they need. 2. whether NPV actually gives them what they need. I have argued at length that, ethically, elections exist to give the people what they want. Pro mistakenly thinks my argument is a fallacy. Me: ""It is ethical to give people the leader they want. This is true whether or not their chosen leader leads ethically."" Pro: ""Con blindly trusts the people to elect the leader who will lead most ethically."" Unfortunately, this is Pro's only semblance of refutation to my argument. Pro even expressed unwillingness to debate about whether democracy is ethical. I presented two reasons why it is ethical: (1) it fulfills the government's commitment under the social contract, and (2) you are already making that assumption simply by choosing an election system over having Congress elect the president or something. Pro's refusal to contradict these ideas, which really are the heart of the debate, should be counted as agreement with me. And R4 will be too late for Pro to start addressing these issues. That alone should persuade you to choose NPV. But even if you think the people do not inherently deserve the leader they want, EC does not actually give them a better leader. I will do my best to paraphrase Pro's argument, but I have to do some work to fill in the blanks: ""Some citizens research options thoroughly and make careful decisions, but most only care about one issue and simply vote for the candidate who agrees with them on that issue. Electors are an elite group of the former type of people. After the citizens have elected a candidate, these electors make sure this candidate is not a complete fool. If he is, then they elect a different candidate."" I have already shown two problems with this argument: 1. A complete fool cannot get elected in the first place because of all the hoops one must go through to get his name on the ballot. Someone who has fooled the entire political system and the public will just as easily fool the few hundred people who were hired to vote. 2. There is no reason to believe the people hired to vote actually are more qualified to make a decision than the general population. When EC was conceived, the citizens were actually supposed to vote for electors, not for the president. The electors would then have plenty of time to research and make a decision. But today, electors are simply people hired to vote for a predetermined option, rather than the distinguished experts they used to be. And there is no time between November and the inauguration to make a decision. The only substantive difference is that the sample size is smaller, and I think we all know why smaller samples are less reliable than larger samples. Plus, as Pro admits, EC punishes electors for doing what they think is right instead of what they are told to do, branding them ""unfaithful electors"". Therefore, EC is counterproductive. R4 will be too late for Pro to start to support the argument that EC is a well-designed system that actually makes better decisions than the general population. Furthermore, I ask you to hold both of us to the same standards of proof. The case I make for NPV is a valid argument with well-supported philosophical statements as premises and simple math as the logic. Pro has made a case for EC only by trying to cast doubt on my arguments and by vaguely hinting at the idea that EC can avert some kind of disaster. In debate lingo, it is not enough to say something like ""EC is net beneficial because it has a chance to prevent disaster and NPV does not."" As I argue at the start of R2, you are obligated to choose a system with a solid theoretical foundation, not just the system that seems at a superficial glance to have more pros than cons. I have presented a foundation for NPV and Pro has presented none for EC."	CON	576
576	Sd0766dd3-A8f6822a	Electoral college	"Con starts off with a rough summary, but I will get to that later. I want voters to notice how he is not showing why people's wants trump people's needs. (1) it fulfills the government's commitment under the social contract, and (2) you are already making that assumption simply by choosing an election system over having Congress elect the president or something. Pro's refusal to contradict these ideas, which really are the heart of the debate, should be counted as agreement with me. And R4 will be too late for Pro to start addressing these issues. I would say that the Government's only obligation is to lead. I would even go as far to as that the Government has the upper hand in the social contract in that if someone doesn't like it, they can simply leave the country, but that is for a different debate. I don't understand why Con is getting on the details late into the debate. For ""(2)"", I don't know what Con is talking about. It would be the same in my eyes to have Congress elect the next president, with some changes in the details. But, to Con. The fallacy lies in the fact that the population's opinion is better then the informed one. That is simply wrong and they doesn't always go together, but EC does. That alone should persuade you to choose NPV. But even if you think the people do not inherently deserve the leader they want, EC does not actually give them a better leader. Nor does NPV, actually. You keep saying what people want is all powerful, but you haven't said why I should care, which is why you might see me ""drop"" your arguments. 2. There is no reason to believe... So you admit that electors have the ability to be competent. Thanks for agreeing with me. Nothing else matters here. Even you have to admit NPV is open to faults. Plus, as Pro admits, EC punishes electors for doing what they think is right instead of what they are told to do, branding them ""unfaithful electors"". Therefore, EC is counterproductive. So? R4 will be too late for Pro to start to support the argument that EC is a well-designed system that actually makes better decisions than the general population. What? I said R2 that EC puts the election in the hands of the Electors, and you yourself had said they can research themselves. I am afraid Con had not proving something vital for the debate: He had not shown why the peoples wants, trump peoples need. For this, his argument falls apart. Con doesn't show that EC doesn't fill the people's need, and he is appealing to emotion, riding on democracy as a proof."	PRO	577
577	Sd0766dd3-Ab20b362b	Electoral college	I waive this round according to the rules in R1. Thank you, Geographia, for the debate.	CON	578
578	Sd0766dd3-A5eee04e	Electoral college	"In NPV, after you vote, your ballot is tallied with those of all other citizen voters. If over half of you prefer A over B, then A defeats B -- the definition of majority rule. In R2, I argue this is desirable. My argument has two main parts: (1) the outcome should reflect the will of the citizen voters; (2) majority rule is the best way to define what that is. Pro objects to #1 by saying that I trust democracy too much and that the purpose of the election is to choose the best leader -- if the citizens prefer ""Hitler Jr"", then the election system should prevent him from becoming president. My responses: a. My argument is not based on trust in democracy to put the best leader in power. Democracy is ethically right. To expand on my R1 argument: freedom is a human right; therefore, it is wrong to use governmental authority over people unless they consent somehow. Government derives legitimacy from the social contract: citizens consentingly surrender some of their freedoms in exchange for services. By voting for people to represent them, they express consent to be led by those leaders. Therefore, it is ethically wrong to design an election system for any purpose other than to make sure the people are represented by the person they consent to being represented by. b. It is bad design practice to design the system for any other purpose. Pro does not address the core of my argument on how to choose one system over another. You are not just making an ad hoc decision by weighing pros vs. cons. You are choosing one component of the system that is the government. A system cannot sanely be designed without modularity, i.e. without limiting the scope of each component. (Imagine trying to design a house if you worry about the kitchen sink when choosing the front door.) When choosing an election system, if you expand your focus from ""what do the citizens want"" to ""what is best for the citizens"", then a reasonable government could never be designed that way. c. Pro is afraid of ""Hitler Jr"" (a placeholder name for an incompetent or malevolent president), but candidates are already vetted to prevent that. If someone faked his way into politics or harbors some dark secret, then the expensive, laborious, heavily scrutinized process of political campaigning will quickly bring that to the surface. There are many gatekeepers, including political parties and the primaries. Furthermore, even if a bad president is elected, then he can be impeached. If all these measures fail to avert disaster, then there is not much EC can do*. To conclude those 3 points, the only valid consideration in choosing an election system is ""what do the citizens want"". Pro does not contradict #2. Majority rule is the best way to formalize ""what do the voters want"". NPV, by definition, satisfies the criterion of majority rule. Therefore, NPV's outcome is always right. Pro falsely says, several times, that this conclusion is a baseless assertion. Pro comes closest to refuting it by arguing (1) that electors are rarely unfaithful and (2) that EC gives small states a greater influence. 1. All my arguments assume electors are faithful (they vote for whom they are told to vote). Refer to my concrete example in R1. Pro's argument here undermines nothing I have said. 2. Pro presents no reasons why an individual in a low-population state deserves more influence than an individual in a high-population state. Maybe it is good if a candidate spends most time campaigning in urban areas. In conclusion, you are choosing the system that gives the citizens what they want; NPV always gives them what they want; EC sometimes does not. Therefore, choose NPV. * EC fails at vetting, anyway. It could only work if citizens voted for electors and gave them enough time to research and make a decision. Problem is, citizens vote for a presidential candidate in November, and then state governments hire electors. If the citizens voted for ""Hitler Jr"", then the EC only has about 2 months to make a different decision."	CON	579
579	Sd0766dd3-Af3784f36	Electoral college	Because there was nothing to defend against, as per the rules, I waive this round.	PRO	580
580	Sd0766dd3-Af6e939d1	Electoral college	"Con's ""a"" Whether it is ethical or not is not in question. If a fool is elected, then it really isn't ethical, is it? I find this fallacious because it assumes because x is ethical, then y, which is from x is right/also ethical. We could go on about if Democracy is ethical but I don't want to. All in all, it doesn't touch on the reason for elections. ""b"" I don't really get what Con is getting at,but I suppose he is saying I am taking in, so to speak, too many parts of the government at once? A reasonable government governs. Simply put, there is no reason a group of elects cannot do what NPV can ""c"" Sorry, what I meant is that the EC curbs the single issue voter. There is also the issue of Joe Schmoe appealing to Urban issues and bring a token effort for rural areas, which would happen if NPV is applied. Pro does not contradict #2. I agree with this, but to the rest of that paragraph, you basically are assuming the population cannot be wrong which is an ad pop. argument. Thus why it is baseless. I have not seen an answer to why the population is magically right, but electors are not, and why NPV is so right. Or even why there are elections in the first place. There has been plenty of lynch mobs and all that sweet stuff, so people are not magically ethic or right then. So I ask Con why the population is right and why their views matter. Do not strawman this as a support for authoritarianism."	PRO	581
581	Sdad21b0b-Aee73144	US should focus its resources on Africa.	Investments~ Why would the United States of America spend money on another continent? Our national debt is over $17 trillion, and growing with every passing second. What exactly would we be investing in? What is so worth spending our government money on in Africa? There is so much that is awry in this nation on its own, that we can't seem to fix, yet the government is so fixated on aiding other countries all over the world, when the bulk of them act as though they don't want our help. I'm sure that the $37 billion our country spends on foreign aid is put to good use; I know that for a fact. We are helping. But why not help ourselves? Yes, I realize we spend much more on in-nation poverty than we do foreign aid. My issue is that, with the money we're using on other nation's problems, we could spend that much more on education, or poverty, or environmental protection, or anything else for ourselves. That sounds extremely selfish, I know, but let's solve our own problems before we go fixing everybody else.	CON	582
582	Sedc07ef6-A7f241348	Goto College or follow your dreams( when your family deems you a failure and closeminded.)	Life is short, and you want to follow your dreams. your family especially your parents want you to go and get your degree. you choose to follow your dreams, even if your parents called you close minded, a failure, a disgrace to your own family, they even go to the point of using race as a way to justify their-selves. Is it still worth following your dream? Remember, life is too short, and to become an obedient drone for society is just wasting life. Its your will or your family's will.	PRO	583
583	S9f212a53-Ab8647358	Voucher Education	I assert that the problems that face our school system can be corrected, with the most effeciency, through the voucher system. Throughout history, the free market has proven itself to be an effective instrument in economics due to its self-regulating nature and power of the free market forcesn it creates. Con's suggested solution is surely a step in the right direction, however, it does not completely encompass the entire situation. I'd like to thank my opponent for the amicable debate and for sharing his thoughts with us.	PRO	584
584	Sed52489a-A2f20b94f	Selective education leads to an unfair bias towards the rich and the middle classes	More selective higher education does not have to mean that it selects on the basis of social or financial background. It means selecting on the basis of academic achievement and potential. This would not have the negative effects on the lower classes as it once did, as this would be undesirable for everybody.	CON	585
585	S10c0bcf4-A27d52be5	Education should be funded by vouchers granted to individual families, not public schools.	"So you are predicating your voucher system on the notion that the government also stops regulating the private universities that accept federal financial aid, and that the government would exercise restraint and not regulate something that the Supreme Court says it has the authority to regulate... AND that the government should give ""vouchers"" to families without applying ANY STANDARD to the schools that accepted them, because parents can be trusted. I agree that parents can and should be trusted, but if there are NO STANDARDS WHATSOEVER on how the vouchers can be spent, then why do they need to be vouchers at all? Why can't the government just give stipends in cold, hard cash? After all, if there are no standards, then my Video Arcade Academy would qualify, and literally nothing couldn't qualify. If the government is defining what constitutes a ""school,"" then it is regulating and some ""schools"" will not make the grade. But if the government is NOT determining what constitutes a ""school,"" then the vouchers can be spent on anything; so again, why not just make them cash stipends? I think you've undermined your entire argument here. I do not believe it is a good idea to fund religious schools with taxpayer money -- but I don't think it's a good idea to fund ANY schools with taxpayer money. Nevertheless, the First Amendment is very specific and very limited. Vouchers do not violate the First, but they DO violate various state constitutions. You are wrong when you say those constitutions are overruled by the First Amendment, because the First Amendment is, again, VERY SPECIFIC: ""Congress shall make no law respecting the establishment of religion."" It says CONGRESS shall make no law. It in no way applies to the states. The Tenth Amendment then says all powers not explicitly delegated to the federal government or prohibited to the states, are reserved to the states or to the people. The Constitution does not prohibit the states from banning religious schools from receiving taxpayer money, and the First Amendment in no way applies. Point being: The U.S. Constitution in no way can overrule a state constitution banning public funding of religious schools. Thus, in addition to the other impossibilities your argument is predicated on, you have to add this one to the list -- passage of several state constitutional amendments. I do not accept the idea that, in the absence of involuntary taxation, there would be a substantial number of students who wanted an education but couldn't get one. You admit that an educated populace benefits society. Well, in order to receive that benefit, society will provide education, one way or another. It doesn't have to be through involuntary taxation. Whenever there is a need, the market will meet that need -- if the government gets out of the way and lets it work. Charitable foundations would establish free private schools, corporations would love the PR benefits of giving scholarships to needy and/or worthy students, and businesses would pay for the education of their employees as a fringe benefit, etc. You claim to be making an argument against public schools, which you admit are bad -- but you boost the idea of public education time and time again. As I have demonstrated here, the implementation of vouchers on a widespread scale would amount to the abolition of private schools, and the complete socialization of education. It would be just as it is now, except no one would be able to escape it, whereas at least some students are able to escape now."	CON	586
586	S23e4ddc5-A882698eb	The U.S. Federal Government Should Abolish the Department of Education	"I accept my opponent's apology. I understand that abbreviating my name (Jonelle) to ""Jon"" in my username can be fairly misleading. Anyway, I'm excited to be finishing up my first debate since my hiatus on DDO. I'm going to provide some short rebuttals respectively to the previous speech then go over a couple voting issues. 1. My opponent has presented a harm and a possible solution, however, my opponent's only support for his solution being effective is that there are a lot of schools that aren't public schools, and most of them probably do pretty well. I agree some of them do well, but I haven't seen any proof that all or even most of them do well, which means that statistically my opponent's plan could do more harm than good. 2. Concerning my opponent's second harm, he has readjusted my syllogism to fit into an assertion. In order for my opponent to prove the statement ""the Department of Education has not gotten one bit closer to achieving its goal,"" he needs to provide proof that every single plan and program has been completely unsuccessful. My opponent has not done that. Therefore, it is reasonable to assume that this harm is not nearly as significant as my opponent leads us on to be. 3. My opponent has not and cannot provide evidence that literally no possible reform will work. He can only assert that none of them will work. That means that no matter what I still have this argument. My opponent said that if there's another possible way then he loses the debate. I've given another way, and my opponent hasn't given actual evidence to prove me wrong. Thank you all for reading this debate, and thank you to my opponent for giving me a good debate."	CON	587
587	Sbcbd1234-A8a26182d	Public schools should offer education in world religions both historically and in religious beliefs	Adolescents should have a vaster knowledge of other religions other than the one their family believes in. I present two main conjectures. Education of religions in a neutral perspective will help society in its corrupted views of hatred on others, because of difference of religions. After education of other religions, if the adolescent chooses their previously chosen denomination of their parents then that would be a stronger and more personal relationship with their religious beliefs. Which both would help the individual. In a non-biased and educational view of other religions, the adolescent would be able to develop an understanding for the reasoning behind others religious related actions, that would otherwise confuse them and not allow them to accept the actions and individuals differences. Making the adolescent believe in a religious denomination because he is ignorant of other options, is not ethical, for it takes away his ability to freely choose his personal belief.	PRO	588
588	S64c53e3d-A3bd164dc	Higher Education ought to be private and indiviuals ought to pay for it themselves.	"Collapse in Germany Improvement of the German economy could be threatened by long-term lack of professionals, especially engineers, showed a study published in the Institute for the German economy. They specified that in the technology companies (from which export depends, therefore improvement of the economy) in July 2010 were missing 36,800 engineers. They said that part of the problem could be solved by ""importing"" experts. Estimates are that this shortage in the coming months could increase. The problem is more serious if it is known that in the Germany are the lack of students who opt for technical education, which could jeopardize long-German position on the world market. 'The situation with youth is particularly bad in the high-tech industries such as machinery, automobile and chemical industries, which are carriers of the German economic take-off', according in Institute. Per thousand employed engineers comes just 35 graduates. Therefore they are looking for experts from abroad. Economy Minister advises companies to offer a cash award to entice skilled experts from abroad. http://www.automobil-industrie.vogel.de... http://www.onejournal.de... 2. There is always job for those who wants to work I will quote PRO:'For example, a surplus in medical professions might cause a hospital less likely to invest in technology or medical supplies, or other companies might be less likely to invest in technology. (Ex: Software that cause solve mathematical problems, simulators, etc.)' Rebuttal: Every hospital and medical centre (which are financed by state) have constant sum of money for medical research, and that money could not be used for paying workers. So surplus will not affect investing in technology etc. Also, nowhere in the world exist company which will employ more workers than its needed and more workers than can be payed. So there is no dangerous for reduced investments. 3. A loan from bank I'm very interested in this system of loaning and later return, I really don't know how it works for 'educational loan' because that not exist in my country. I saw what PRO said in second round, but I still don't understand some things. Here, when you want to get a loan from a bank you have to mortgage something or to have constant work and payments , and someone still needs to guarantee for you as endorser. What one student can mortgage? What happens if he/she finish University and not get a job? What happens if he/she decide to stop studying? What happens if female stay pregnant? Will bank wait forever? 4. Everyone should have the opportunity Everyone should have opportunity to go to University. Knowledge is not a commodity. Education is not for sale. Of course that rich people have some extra benefits, they can choose between Private and free University, but most important thing is that those who don't have money can be educated. What happens if you don't have free University? A lot of talented people can not go to University because they don't have money! Sad... Education is one of the most important things in people's lives. Every men are born equal and everyone deserve opportunity for better life!"	CON	589
589	S1bdb82e-A7fbb44ae	A Debate On The Electoral College	"To a degree he is correct, this is a major function of the EC, but not the only one. The United States is a Federal Republic. A Federal Republic is a collection of sovereign states that give up certain aspects of their autonomy to form a larger 'union', or 'Federation'. [1] Therefore, when electing the Head of State for a Federal Republic there is more to consider than regional population. A state needs to be adequately represented in order to benefit from being a member-state of a Federation. The EC ensures that smaller, less populated states receive the same benefits as the larger ones. Without the EC smaller states such as Wyoming or West Virginia would receive even less federal consideration than they do under the current system. Politicians would have little reason to visit the mid-western states, and even less reason to give them the same benefits of union that larger states like New York and California enjoy."" You make the argument that eliminating the EC will hurt smaller states by giving them little attention in the eletion. However as it is, largely Republican or largely Democrat states are not given attention. This is because both candidates know they will win the state if it is largely bias twoards their party, so the other candidate won't campaign there. This leaves several states neglected. Also, as I explained to you in a message, the resolution is not that the EC should be eliminated, but rather, it should be changed. This means that if you change it to a system such as weighted popular vote, smaller states still recieve benefits. RE: ""My young opponent claims that the voices of some citizens voting for the losing candidate go unheard (in cases where the winner of the popular vote loses the EC vote). I find a different interpretation to be more accurate. Their voices do not go unheard, rather the voice of the states Does get heard."" This is true, however, by making the EC ""winner take all"" you are ignoring many of the state's citizens and The states voice is not heard as one, but rather as a majority. This makes all votes for the losing candidate in any particulaar state, worthless, as they do not inffluence the election. RE: ""This is not an argument in favor of reforming the EC. This is an argument in favor of conducting the federal census more often. We have the technology to make this more feasible today than we did when the census was instituted in the mid 1800s."" Holding a more recent census would affect the EC and would be a reformation. I think we'll have to agree on this point. RE: ""Con is correct in his historical analysis. However, he offers no explanation as to why the election going into the House of Representatives is a bad thing that suggests that our election methods should be reformed."" The election going into the hands of representatives is bad because votes from citizens rarely affect the representatives. As I stated before bribery was used to buy votes and this, I think you'll agree, is bad. So to keep the election a Democratic one, we must find a different way to resolve a tie. RE: ""If someone were to look strictly at the popular vote then Con would be correct in this claim. However, as I have discussed above, there are more things to take into consideration. This nation was founded both on the sovereignty of the people and the sovereignty of separate states. The two branches of congress were created with the same principle as the EC. It apportions some of the representation based on population (House of Representatives) and the rest based on statehood (two votes for each state in the Senate). This gives smaller states like Wyoming the same representational proportion quoted by Con in Congress for the very same reason that the EC takes both measures into consideration - to ensure that the smaller states have some say in the Federal government. Therefore it would be more accurate to say that these states are given a base level of power to make their existence in the federation worthwhile than it would be to say that its citizens exercise more 'power' than others."" Again you say that I am advocating switching to popular vote. This is incorrect. This debate is rather about whether the EC should be changed. There are alternatives to the EC that ensure smaller states have some say in the federal goernment. My final stement is that when I said some citizens have more power than others, I was simply saying that they have more inffluence on THEIR STATE's popular vote, not in the nation as a whole. Thank you JBlake for accepting and I await your response."	CON	590
590	S55c05f7c-Af6794f94	The Electoral College Should be Abolished	"Thanks, Pro. We do agree Pro has the bigger BOP, but by how much is where we disagree. I will now counter-rebut Pro's R3 rebuttals. 1A. Representation and focus As I have stated before, common sense dictates that small states would be entirely overpowered and voiceless in a popular vote. Pro has failed to give viable reasons that such a result wouldn't occur. Pro uses the majority of this section to assert that small states would overpower big states in EC; however, my R3 rebuttals alone refute this. Only *three* places have a disproportionate amount of votes (District of Columbia, Vermont, and Wyoming) as they all have populations below 700,000. Each representative represents, on average, rougly 700,000 people. This means if given an exact number of proportionate representatives, these three places will be completely buried under all the other states, and would therefore be voiceless. Again, this contradicts individual liberty. I urge to audience to bear in mind that there are only THREE places where disproportionate votes occur; but it is in the best interest of society. EVERYWHERE needs representation. Pro may claim a vote in a big state doesn't equal to a vote in a small state, but overall that is untrue. Regardless, my opponent's negative assertions, seemingly aimed at many small states, only applies to three places. As such, no justifiable reason has been given to completely disregard these three places; there would be no representation due to lack of population in PV, and there would be representation for those three places in EC. ""The fact that Rhode Island has one regional concern would be of much more proportion to California with its five thousand regional concerns."" -Pro. This argument is completely irrational. The disproportionate issue that my opponent is referring to doesn't apply to Rhode Island; it has a population above 700,000 [1], therefore they recieve an exactly proportionate number of representatives. Considering the above statement, my opponent's following claim: ""The fact that Rhode Island has one regional concern would be of much more proportion to California with its five thousand regional concerns,"" is completely false and should be disregarded as Rhode Island is represented proportionately. If DOC, Wyoming, and Vermont, on the contrary, all recieve no representation, they would be disregarded as the president and other important figures will be focusing only on the big states. My opponent has not properly refuted this. 1B. Abolishing the Senate My opponent fails to provide a viable reason why the PV method should not be used in the Senate, but should be used in the EC. Pro's argument on this is all opinionated and baseless. ""The Senate can address each state's issues without needing to ask the state which candidate the majority of its citizens support."" -Pro. Key question: why? Why can the Senate go without the PV method, while the presidential election HAS to have PV, rather than the current and more efficient status quo? My opponent's argument on this is weak, and doesn't warrant much response as I have already covered everything on this section. 2. Moderation Here, my opponent starts by asserting swing states are the only states that matter, and are therefore the only places that candidates campaign. This is both false and fallacious. Candidates campaign in every state with the EC, because every state matters with the system. With PV in places, candidates would likely not give Wyoming the time of day. Further, my opponent relies on another fallacious argument for this section: with EC, democrats wouldn't visit solidly red states and vice versa. This premise is simply proving my point. As I explained in round three, most states are solidly blue or red regardless of what system is in place. Since my opponent has failed to refute that states will stay the same part regardless of the system, then my point stands. Additionally, since Pro has failed to defend otherwise, there is no justification given here to go through the struggles of changing the status quo as this part of the election will remain the same, as conceded by Pro. In this section of the debate, Pro claims candidates will moderate their policies no matter their location. However, the degree of moderation will be different. Candidates will have to appeal to independent voters in swing states; thus encouraging moderation. Even if slightly moderated, Texas will always lean red, and California will always lean blue. As such, swing states are different and vote from scratch. Not only do they represent every region from the US, but they provide NEUTRAL representation from each region, thus creating a fair election. Pro's assertion that in a PV candidates will try to appeal to all of America is false. As I have repeatedly asserted, they will try to appeal to states with high populations. Since most states are solidly blue, or solidly red, who will win in PV simply depends on if there are more democrats or republicans; with swing states holding so much weight in EC, neutrality wins, and a more thoughtful voting process is considered when electing. 3A. Recounting [Clear Winner] One of Pro's main arguments on recounting revolves around the rarity of the situation. This was part of my point. PV would fail to confront such a situation in the efficient way that EC confronts this problem. As such, the 1960 Nixon-Kennedy election had a .17% difference in the PV. (See source two in round two). Though all 68 million voters ballots were counted in one day, it showed such a closeness in how many votes there were per candidate that cries of fraud were called out as well as vote-stealing from both sides. In a direct election, it would be impossible to please the public in such an election; a .17% would simply be too close. People would be pissed off, and there would always be the lingering question of whether or not there was some type of fraud that cause a candidate to supposedly be .17% ahead of their opposition. Due to these problems, a system needs to be in place to prevent such an issue from occuring. The EC is fair for a plethora of reasons I have already stated in this debate, and should be utilized in such rare occasions. It is overall beneficial to the election process for its fairness and overall accuracy. Lastly, it helps settle such a dispute, and there is less conflict than if Kennedy were elected because he had 2/10ths of a percentage more votes. 3B. Fraud [Clear Winner] Here Pro fails to grasp the basic point I was trying to make: I never denied such cases where a recount would be in order in PV were not too common. However, I was arguing in the case that there would be one, PV would be a hindrance while EC would be nothing but helpful. As stated above, it would take months and months of recounting the votes in order to please the public; as such, EC is the only right option in such a situation. This WOULD lead to fraud chances as there would be no decisive president to quite a time with the PV method given that the public would be pissed. Also, Pro fails to give viable reasons on why fraud is reduced with PV; clearly there would be an equal opportunity of fraud regardless of the system. As such, unless Pro gave legitimate sources to back up the EC encourages fraud, this premise should not be taken seriously. PV would give lots of chances for fraud in such cases; Pro fails to prove otherwise. He actually concedes, and only points out its rarity, which I never denied. Additionally, in the 1960 election, a few fraud votes COULD have made a difference considering the election was so close. 4. EC avoids confusion Pro fails to properly confront either of my two main points here: 1. >3 parties would make the overall view of the election too divided to please the people, as more than half would likely oppose the president. Having two main parties mitigates such confusion. 2. >3 parties causes confusions in other countries. Source http://quickfacts.census.gov..."	CON	591
591	S55c05f7c-A240289	The Electoral College Should be Abolished	"Thank you for the arguments Con. For my R3 case I will rebut my opponent's arguments from R2. I hope that he will be able to respond to my R2 arguments as well as counter-rebut my R3 ones. Rebuttals Re: Representation and Focus State-by-state representation will not be needed in a national popular vote because each vote would be individual and would have no accordance with the state that citizen lives in. It is unfair to give a voter more value in an election simply because they happen to live in a state with smaller borders. If that state's borders were expanded for some reason, or the voter moved to a larger state, then the vote's value would drop. Small states would be over-represented. This is much less fair for people living in big states - their votes don't count as much toward the result as small states do. A national popular vote would eliminate thisproblem and ensure that every vote is equal the next. States need not be relevant in a national election. Regional concerns would be more prevalent in large states versus small states, since there is more space in larger states for problems to arise. The fact that Rhode Island has one regional concern would be of much more proportion to California with its five thousand regional concerns. There is no reason to abolish the Senate because the Senate serves the purpose of representing the states several times a month on many different issues, not like the EC which is only used every four years for one issue only: the next president of the U.S. The Senate can address each state's issues without needing to ask the state which candidate the majority of its citizens support. Re: Moderation With the EC, candidates tend to only campaign in the states that matter: swing states. It would be pointless for a Republican candidate to campaign in a solid blue state and vice versa. With or without the EC, there is no reason for a candidate to visit a small town because there are few people living in that town that would affect the election outcome. Since rural areas already trend red, campaigning there is pointless. Candidates will moderate their policies regardless of whether there are swing states or not. It may be true that swing states will be appealing to candidates, but if there is no EC at all then the candidates will want to moderate their policies to appeal to all of America, not just a few states. Even if that was not the case, it doesn't matter a whole lot whether a policy is moderated or not. America will vote on what it wants, and that will make America happier because a popular vote is a direct representation of democracy in comparison to a flawed EC. Re: Clear Winner To dissect this argument, we must first find out why it is being contended that a clear winner in an election would be better than a close one. Two factors have been brought up: recounting and votes and a number of fraud attempts at a result of it. Recounting My opponent has attempted to paint recounting in a bad light. However, recounting in a direct popular vote would not be all that bad. We must first consider that the new president isn't inaugurated until late January[1], leaving plenty of time from election day in early November to the day the president-elect takes office. 2½ months is enough time to recount a nation's votes, seeing as how the votes on Election Day are all counted in one sitting. Also, the only time the nation would recount every person's vote would possibly be if the election was as close as the 1960 Nixon-Kennedy one. Even if there was a difference of a million votes between the candidates (such as the 2012 one), the election still wouldn't be close enough to trigger a national recount. Only in rare settings where the votes are really close would a recount be considered. To add, a recount would be much less likely in a national popular vote because there would be a single large national pool of votes instead of 51 separate pools. Fraud Since fraud was brought up, it'd be proper for this subject to be addressed by the other side. It was claimed that a long recount time would risk further fraud opportunities. But because it is a baseless assertion to say ""a recount would take months and months"", there is no point in taking this argument seriously. We know that in each election, the votes are counted in one day, so fraud opportunities would not be higher. In fact, they would be lower because recounts would be less frequent as I pointed out earlier. Fraud attempts would actually be more frequent with the EC because the people committing fraud would know that if they did it enough, it might tip the vote balance of that state causing the entire state to go for the other candidate. In a popular vote, this wouldn't happen because each vote is individual and would have no effect on the state that vote was casted in. Fraud attempts would only give a candidate a few extra votes and there would be no risk of an entire state switching its votes because of it. Re: Confusion It is another baseless assertion that the two-party system would collapse because of a loss of the EC. If no candidate received 270 electoral votes in the EC, one from the three candidates with the most votes would be chosen by the Senate anyways. In a national popular vote, the candidate with the most votes would be elected as chosen by the people. Also, since few people vote for the party they know is going to lose, there would be no reason for the people to begin voting for third party candidates more often without the EC. Your turn, Con! Sources 1. http://en.wikipedia.org... 2. http://www.archives.gov..."	PRO	592
592	S1db3eaf8-Ae046a839	Free university education unjustly benefits one subset of society at the expense of everyone	Many state services are furnished that benefit a few and are not used by others. That is often just the way such services operate. So long as everyone has access to the service, then it is just to provide it out of tax revenues. Every individual, when higher education is free, can attend university without cost. That is a right every taxpayer can enjoy. If some choose not to do so, that is fine, but it does not delegitimize the government outlay. 	CON	593
593	S53a43ac3-Acdba916d	Life is not worth living, when you fear it more than death.	"""Anti-social behavior is a sign of intelligence in a world full of conformists."" - Nikola Tesla Most people are like tiny vials that do not have enough space for air to compress against the glass, so they do not understand the concept of pressure. The few whom do understand the consequences of their actions, that which are namely depicted by mostly threatening individuals who could not handle the pressure, often call themselves dangerous; or ""there's a monster inside me"". Those that fail to understand this monster become it; those that prevail will become a teacher of not only Man, but Monster. All signs of disobedience is a sign of break through. It matters how people deal with their unleashing. All rules, power, control, laws and focus points should be unheeded without warning, broken and replaced as concisely as atoms with every passing day; in an ever-changing environment where in both, chaos and peace emit a role. A fire that is free, is a fire that can be contained; a fire that is contained, is a fire that should be feared. Imagine having a pitbull as a pet. What would you fear most? A pitbull that is nice and loving - as it could change into a face-eating brain-dysfunction at any time? Or a pitbull that makes their true nature known far and true for all to see for themselves, so they can take appropriate precaution? Which would you prefer? Danger you can see? Or danger that you cannot see? This world will forever be a thorn in our sides, as long as moderators abuse their power; trolls are not punished for trashing people's threads. Instead, we should encourage our fellow people to remember when to take things as a joke; when to take things seriously. In this day and age, psychopathy is the new future. Being told to hide your emotions; men do not cry; women are objects; fears, weaknesses and insecurities are projected unto everything and everyone; poetry being a sissy-activity; a society with a faith in the power houses that control said society over an odd influence that appears from the sea of infallible stasis; where in double standards, hypocrisies and envy thrive over sensibility, empathy and self-humility; a land of judgement, envy and power-trips intend to thwart the very traits of our humanity we require to expand and grow further down our psychical progression. If we keep people from crying, from feeling, from accepting their humanity, we are preventing the most dangerous of stars from dying, reforming into a super nova / black hole, to recreate new life that is unwavering, better formed and is more promising in having no chance to break down from a chemical fissure that lies beneath the surface of it all. Remember: the man that stabbed your loved one; that shot your loved one; that took away from you, is the result of you encouraging a society which turns everyone into a ticking bomb waiting to combust into the very flames they could have faced; could have resolved, if they lived in a society where in psychopaths, moderators and trolls did not make it impossible for anyone to reach out with their humanity; their heart; their mind, to let go, because moderators, trolls and psychopaths are equivalent to dark energy; dark matter - they are the unformed, the ungiven; the unnamed; the unmade. Those that settle and shape themselves, are those that should be feared - not those that cannot stop themselves from breaking apart; from realizing the inner star within themselves that needs to let go, so it can create new beginnings through temporary destruction that can be controlled and understood. Heed not the lord; the king that sits upon his chair, with a power that merely resonates through the men he orders; heed the jester that took this dark age in his hands and turned it into a twisted irony that our intellectually-prone minds could fathom in a way our smiles and laughter portrayed solemnly. Let the animals free - chain the chains. Oppress oppression. Silence silence. Suppress suppression. It's time for those that do not heed these words to forever know from this point on that no Man need not suppress, silence, oppress and chain any Man; lest they are not Man, but Un-Man; the Unmade; The Un-formed; The Un-Universe. When you want control; you haven't got any; when you let go; you have it all. All of hatred is the result of two things: envy and stupidity. Now, when most say ""stupidity"", they leave it at that as some blanket statement - I will expound on what I really mean by it. By saying so, I am saying that we live in a world where in people are so full of themselves, as they are hollow, that they have the nerve to judge death, itself. Let not judgment proceed any Man - for all results of judgment are advocated by the lack of process. For an example, if I fail at doing what I love, I may catch myself becoming upset with myself for failing; in turn I start criticizing everyone else's work like my own, because it's easier to judge others than it is to judge yourself. It is all about control, power, manipulation, judgment, credit or some other form of self-centered agenda to them. They do not have the traits of being reborn, and so, they remain primitive, wavering, dysfunctional, unresponsive to pressure and integrity, while showing no problem in reacting to above, as the brain still forms envy through that stupidity, which is the unformed, the unmade, the ungiven, the un-Man. The reason why? The human mind is like bacteria; naive, but strives. When the few are faced with hardships, allowing themselves to become the diamonds amongst opals through heat and strength, the many that don't are faced with a circumstance where in they are challenged; forced to face a reality they never gave themselves a chance to. So whilst they are naive, they still strive. Think of how a turtle ends up on its back; it viciously rocks back and forth naively, but in that naivety, it strives. This is why a lot of children become better than their parents, but end up like their parents in the end. It's a vicious cycle where in life is no longer important - it's how important we feel in life. Parents do not listen to their children, and take back-talking as a form of disrespect, when in reality, it's a form of intelligence against the disrespecting parent for devaluing the ideas of their children. People refuse to be wrong, to fall, to let go of their pride and let in all, in spite of their own points of interests. The child's mind is very important, as it's where enthusiasm and imagination lives on through the dull prideful inferno we created as a society where in larceny beats family; money beats reality; luxury beats life and gain beats grace. This is an era of psychopaths. A society that says it's for the people, as per the ""the customer knows best"", ""we the people"", ""in your best interests"", ""we do what's best for you"" messages every company, business or chair in the congress states simply to butter up the gullible and kittenish which make up the majority of this population, in every country. Good men die like dogs; drug cartels, child sex rings, government corruption - even our own people's corruption, are all answered by the sheer ear-piercing silence of how weak, technology-dependent, boot-kissing society turned out to be. People dream in a nightmare; people wish in a world that took away our stars; people hope in a world of action, where in dreams can be made, nightmares can be prevented; in a world where stars are seen in the sky, or in our hearts; and hope is built upon action, rather than dry anticipation. It's time that we wake up and smell the thorns before the roses. It's time to attack the suits, the half-smiles, the practice of saying everything people want to hear. It's time that we lift these curtains and see the other half of the world, so we can deal with it accordingly. End the trolls - end the politicians - end the guards, moderators and sheep. Let people speak, and know when opposition - not suppression, infliction, silence or oppression - is needed in forms of words, not weapons. If someone is angry, let them be angry. Do not say ""calm down"". Understand them, as they are at that time. If someone has dark thoughts, work with them; do not fear their other side. It's time that we protect the natural animals, and put asleep the unnatural animals. Psychopathy must not live on; it is the product of humanity regressing. Everything is turning into a politically correct scenario - there's no emotion in these policies, which means that by encouraging these rules, we are taking away humanity and building a future for business and tyrants. This world's hell, is our own hell. To eliminate it, we must assemble with integrity, enthusiasm, dual respect for both sides of nature, understanding, empathy, self-humility, determination and an undying passion, to face it all once and for all. Anybody can make changes after reading this by preventing their parents from taking control over their lives with scary threats - stand up. Anybody can make changes by breaking rules, and still understanding the Universe's consequences based upon your actions affecting the butterfly effect. Anybody can make changes by disobeying and setting themselves free from the clutches of a psychopathic hierarchy that is designed to silence any voice that dares reveal their true nature. Anybody can make changes by facing their fears; helping others do the same after they fix their own, or at least acknowledging they share the same type. Anybody can make the greatest of all changes by simply letting go; to stop holding on; to start speaking with their mind, coloring their words and their world with their hearts to love soft enough to remember humanity and hard enough to fight for it. Life is not worth living, when you fear it more than death."	PRO	594
594	Sc7831446-Ae046a839	Free university education unjustly benefits one subset of society at the expense of everyone	Many state services are furnished that benefit a few and are not used by others. That is often just the way such services operate. So long as everyone has access to the service, then it is just to provide it out of tax revenues. Every individual, when higher education is free, can attend university without cost. That is a right every taxpayer can enjoy. If some choose not to do so, that is fine, but it does not delegitimize the government outlay. 	CON	595
595	S3b05a433-Ad3c60677	Physical Education should be taught differently than it currently is.	"First off, the ""facts"" my opponent uses would not apply to a society where physical activity is imposed on people since that has not been studied and is not the case right now so can not be studied presently. It's an unfortunate even that those studies hadn't taken place during the slavery period of U.S. history since that would be imposed physical activity... just a form that was extremely profitable to a slaveholder. There is an increased academic performance in students who are musically active but do we force them to play their instruments or sing out of school for certain times daily? Do we even force them to take the classes? No. Plenty of students are good academically and not active, and having much much more PE might not necessarily increase these benefits, so they do not apply. 2. My opponent states that childhood obesity is over 50% and that is actually a false statistic. The CDC states that only 17% of children between 2 and 19 are obese, this 50% is completely and blatantly a made-up number.[1] Additionally, America is not a perfect country. We aren't even close to the best in so many other fields, if my opponent is worried about us only being average in terms of physical health, aren't there bigger issues overhead? What about our placement in the global economy? Or the fact that we really don't care that much about our environment? No, we're going to focus on changing our ""C"" in health rather than fix our economy and the pollution. 3. If physical fitness REQUIRES discrimination, then why should it be imposed? That draws parallels to the segregation of blacks and whites in the sense that the obese or overweight people are less than the skinny people. Why would anyone WANT governmentally enforced and lawfully imposed discrimination against any group of people?! How could anyone support anything like that? Especially if that person is CONTENT with their body weight and does not wish to change it but it is wrong in my opponent's eyes, the plan PRO suggests is discrimination and would be something that some people just wouldn't want. How would you feel if someone MADE you dye your hair if they thought that your hair color was the wrong color? 4. The truth is about the diet logs is that if they were imposed by the government, it would be the exact definition of socialism. It is a persons choice when it comes to their diets. If we imposed a certain way of eating, it not only be completely dissatisfying to the common person, but ruin industries in snack foods, and damage economies. Did you want that chocolate? I'm sorry, you can't have it! It goes against your government standardized diet log. Here, have a luscious brussel sprout instead! 5. I press my opponent to state what exactly is wrong with having a physical fitness plan on your own? What exactly is the problem with being under or over the recommended body weight? What if the individual feels comfortable that way and it is the way that they want to look? And what happens to the people that the fitness programs stress out? Now they're doing WORSE in their school work but all for the sake of fitness right?! The weight discrimination sure can't help either. When there is such a high standard for people's appearance, and quite a few people feel uncomfortable with their weight, a system based on weight discrimination will cause lower self-esteem, a lack of self-worth, a feeling that one is ""ugly"" and a rise in suicide and suicide attempts, as all discrimination causes. We could expect a LACK of good school work since there will be students stressed from exercise and ones feeling put-down from the discrimination the plan advocates. 6. The first argument given by my opponent is speculation. The second source was made in 2008 and the first was from the National Association for Sport and Physical Education which is an extremely credible source and we can assume it is recent and close in date to the first source. Therefore it is plausible that there is a correlation in these statistics and PRO has no argument here. As for the diet, it should still be left up to an individuals choice, but a better plan for the health of the people would be to reward companies who offer foods for sale that are healthy rather than full of chemicals and hormones. Yet, as the foods you eat are your own choice, my opponents point regarding diet doesn't exactly apply here since the people are CHOOSING to eat those fried foods and the people of Colorado just eat better. There is always that McDonalds right down the street, and then there's always the choice of something organic and healthy. 7. While fitness programs can be strenuous, the problem is, what if the students don't want to participate in such an activity? What if it would not lead to their goal for fitness and appearance? This entire plan disregards the individuals opinion and would not satisfy anyone since it quite frankly doesn't CARE what they think. Maybe they just don't wish to have muscles? Why would they exercise in a strenuous way if that's not their goal or they don't think it's worth it? Again, bodily discrimination is what is being advocated in this plan for fitness, the goal being an extremely biased and hateful society that shuns the obese people to the point of violence over the number they get when they step on the scale. Petty, isnt it? 8. While healthy can sometimes increase a person's happiness, imposed fitness plans are not the way to be healthy and will only stress people out. There is an even more significant correlation between free will and happiness. Unfortunately, to be healthy, you lose free will. Free will provides more happiness than health, so overall in a fitness-imposed society, the people would be less happy, healthy, but slaves to the government over that health. The slaves of America definitely got plenty of exercise, but were they happy? No, they had no free will, how could they be?! 1 http://www.cdc.gov..."	CON	596
596	Sa513ba08-A1c21d88f	Exams Ought to be Abolished from the Education System	Thank you to my opponent for a wonderful debate! R1: China/UK My opponent agrees that exam stress here is resulting in a lot of problems for students. R2: Structure of Exams I agree to an extent that the grading scheme needs to be altered to better accommodate student stresses as a result of rigorous intellectual regime. However, where I disagree is the nature of the exam itself, which again forces students to be on the spot, come up with pure information recall as fast as possible, and then explain it as fast as one can on paper. Because of the nature of the exam, even if it was worth less of a % of the whole class mark, it still makes sense to abolish it. The nature of the exam even at 10% still puts undue stress on students when it isn't needed. Unlike an essay where someone can ask for help. R3: Ramifications of Abolition I disagree with students getting unruly because of exams. Students still get unruly even with the exam coming up. Tis the nature of being an immature student. However, plenty of courses in university do not have exams, and students are not rudely interrupting all the time. Even if a student was rude, the professor or teacher can kick that person out of the class, and continue on with their day. Source: R4: Bell Curving Because the marks can be artificially inflated or deflated with an exam to give an even distribution on the marks, it means that the exam results are not fair. The whole point of the exam is nullified as a result. Source: http://study.com... R5: Cheating, and Other Coursework I do not deny that students are going to cheat on other assignments as well. I agree, they probably will. However, I contest to what extent students will cheat on an essay versus something like an exam, whereas I think an essay is going to have less cheating than exams. Ergo, essays would still be a better assignment. And given for the reasons posted earlier, I believe exams ought to be abolished. Many thanks to my opponent for the debate, and his understanding of my FF! Cheers guys!	PRO	597
597	Se6ffa8fb-A30c85a10	It is well known that a university education leads to great benefits in later life.	University graduates might be more succesful in general – but that does not mean everyone who attends university becomes wealthy and well-employed. Many thousands of graduates cannot find jobs when they leave university and many more do not ever find the dream career they hoped for. A higher education does not guarantee of success and so it is unfair that those who do not succeed are still left with a huge fee or debt when they leave university. The basis of taxation is the income you actually have, not what you ‘should’ have. As high-earning graduates already pay big sums in income tax, the system is very fair already.	CON	598
598	Se6ffa8fb-A3102113b	It is well known that the ‘education’ is often only a small part of the university experience.	Universities have only limited control over how their students spend their spare time. Provided that they give their students a high quality education, and only award degrees to those who deserve it then they are doing their job properly. Also, the idea that the taxpayer is generously funding students is misleading. Most students receive most of their income from loans (which have to be paid back), and many students live in situations of quite serious poverty. Those that are lucky enough to have spare money often earn this by having a part-time job whilst studying. If they choose to spend their own money on fun and socialising, that is none of our business.	CON	599
599	S10c0bcf4-Ab119e125	Education should be funded by vouchers granted to individual families, not public schools.	To begin with, there is no reason why private schools would have meet government requirements to receive funding. The idea behind the voucher system is that the government is not the body responsible for determining which schools qualify for funding; each parent chooses the school they deem good enough for the price they are willing to pay. If parents do not want to bother with the same standards as the government, let them. And it is true, some parents might make unconventional choices for their child's schooling. Some parents might want their child to attend school solely at an art studio, or a sports training camp, or any other specialized facility. However, I have trouble imagining any parent with bad enough judgment to pay to send their child to a video arcade for their schooling. As for the religion issue, the voucher system does not violate the First Amendment in any sense. The government is not forcing religion upon anyone; the only religious institutions receiving government funding are those that people choose to patronize. Mandatory public schools forcing religious curriculum is one thing; people willingly accepting the religion of their choice as part of their education is something else. (If people want to attend a madrassas, that is up to them, but again I do not imagine much demand for such an institution in America.) The school voucher program also provides a neat way out of the creation science/evolution debate currently plaguing many public schools. As it currently stands, American schools are forced to decided whether forcing or forbidding the teaching of intelligant design violates the First Amendment. By allowing families to attend any school they choose (ones which could take any number of stances on the issue) this problem is resolved without any new law being passed. Now I do not have to attend a school that teaches creation science, creationists do not have to attend a school that teaches evolution, and the government did not have to choose sides either way. The Constitution issue is perhaps the thorniest, but not altogether applicable. The Tenth Amendment specifically allows the States any power not reserved by the Feds. Therefore, it is not false to say that the States have the right to fund schooling through a voucher system. On a side note, I do take some issue with government funding of education, but the substantial spillover benefits we receive by granting greater access to education outweigh the costs. There are safeguards against the government hijacking schools under a voucher system, and since all people receive benefits from an educated populace schools meet the definitions of a public good.	PRO	600
600	S269c4789-Afb19018	Homework is an essential part of education, allowing students to learn information beyond that which they are taught at school.	Homework is a vital and valuable part of education. There are only a few hours in each school day – not enough time to cover properly all the subjects children need to study. Setting homework extends study beyond school hours, allowing a wider and deeper education. It also makes the best use of teachers, who can spend lesson time teaching rather than just supervising individual work that could be done at home. Education is about pushing boundaries, and the learning should not stop at the entrance to the classroom – students should take skills learnt in the classroom and apply them at home. Homework allows this to happen, encouraging students to go above and beyond what they do in school. Reading is the best example, students learn how to read at school, but in order to get better, they need to practise and that is best done at home, with the support of parents and at the right pace for the student. 	PRO	601
601	S1e44a13d-A52e68428	The introduction of more private universities would increase the quality of education by allowing open competition	"Universities can't be guided by an ""invisible hand"": the conditions in the higher education market are not such that optimum results will obtain from this sort of ""free market"" idea. There are several reasons why. First, demand for university courses fluctuates, and a low intake for a course one year, and therefore decreased funding, could unfairly penalise other people studying in that department, who are not free to leave (and take their money elsewhere) but simply have to suffer the decrease in quality until the end of their degree course. Second, universities don't operate in a true free-market system: the high start up costs (buildings, libraries) mean that it is very difficult for new universities to enter the market, even if standards in existing ones fall.Thirdly, there will always be those students who are poorer and have to go to the worse universities (if they cannot afford or do not want the burden of a student loan). A poorer student will either get a second rate education and waste valuable time and money or will opt out of higher education all together and accrue none of the benefits, since graduates typically earn more than non-graduates1. 1 Lexington, ""Higher education: Is it really the next bubble?"" The Economist, 21 April 2011, improve this  "	CON	602
602	Sf5635870-A22bd93d4	A National Curriculum: Lower Education for a Lowerclass??? I think not...	For me the passing of a national standard of education is the only way that makes sense. 1. I am the son of a military officer and so I move on average between every 2 and 4 years. Because of that I have had to transfer credits and it has been ridiculously inconvenient. For example, everyone who has lived in northern virginia knows that the school systems up there run at about the 2nd highest standard of learning in the US. When I take an Algebra II class in North VA and it doesnt transfer to my high school in Alabama (the 2nd lowest standard of learning) because my old high school failed to write Algebra II/Trig instead of just Algebra II, theres a problem. Anybody who moves out of state is subject to opinions of a school conselor as to how their credits are transferred. Also, the different standards for graduation can stop a senior from graduating. Had I remained in Alabama I would not have been able to graduate without summer classes simply due to the fact that alabama requires 28 credits as opposed to VA's 24 or colorado's 22. It was nothing that I did...just changes in standard that I couldnt avoid. If we were to use a National Curriculum plan, none of these would be problems for nomadic families. The standards would be the same everywhere. 2. How is it fair that any student who takes an AP Class in N.Virginia has at least an hour of homework just for that class, while a student who takes an AP in Alabama often has no homework at all??? Having moved around as much as I have, their seems to be a very noticeable difference between schools around those of a wealthier class, and those of surrounding poorer areas. Now certainly u can expect some difference in average scores, but I am reffering to the standards of education. It is 10 times easier to graduate from high school in montgomery alabama than it is to graduate in fairfax, va. In Mississippi high school is a joke, and in Colorado it at least takes some effort. So why is it that an Alabama High School Diploma means as much as a N.Va High School Diploma??? I had to work 100 times harder to get the N.Va one... My point in all of this is that we are measuring students differently based on their societal positions and then calling them equal. If everyone regardless of race, gender, and social class is generally equal in intellegence, then why are we lowering the bar for lower classes? It comes down to basic Universal Equality. Shouldn't everyone be treated as if they all all share the same genereal level of intellegence? With a national curriculum, everyone from the Florida Keys to Seattle, Washington would be judged by the same equal standard. That sounds more fair to me than the current state based curriculums. Why should someone in Alabama get a diploma for learning that the civil war happened in the 1860s sometimes and that their state joined the union in 1819, while the students in N.Va and Massachussetts get the same diploma but have to learn individual battles and dates and have to know all of the states, their capitols, and their major landmarks. I mean, when I have to learn the names of Every country in the world, their capitols and major geographical features and cities...and still not recieve a geography credit in Alabama...where many people couldn't tell you where vietnam even was (and still get a diploma)...there is a problem... If everyone is equal, than everyone should be judged according to their general equality. People in Alabama should no have an easier ride to graduation than the people in N.Va just because they live in Alabama and people in N.Va should not have a harder route to graduation just because they happen to live in N.Va.	PRO	603
603	S73548fe7-A12019922	colonization of the moon would fail and not be worth it to humanity	Correct me if I'm wrong, but the moon was once part of Earth. Earth has resources, so the moon should have some aswell. 2. Supercomputer, being faster is everything. If you are faster you have a beter econ and military. Pro drops India arguement and doesn't refute the U.S. is low on Hegemoty. 3. Terriform the moon. 4. Pro states there is no evidense of GW, but if he was on www.futuretimeline.com, he would see the equations and there are even worse things that will happen if you continue to read into the future. 5. Pro claims Arabs would start a nuclear winter. Pro gives you a great reason there why to get off the Earth. 6. Oil dependcy causes terrorism.	CON	604
604	S73548fe7-A57fb3da5	colonization of the moon would fail and not be worth it to humanity	Yes the moon may have earthly resources but it dose not have trees nor farmland and once again we have no idea what amount of the resources the moon has it may not be a lot. 2. Speed is effective in warfare but their is so much more to it than that strategy strength equipment a computer will never win a war it may help but single handedly no it has no human factor. 3. Terriforming the moon would coast a ton with out getting half the resources back and not sure if the grounds stable for building and it being hit by space junk all the time there's no chance 4. also only one Arabic nation has nukes and they are about to get their asses kicked by the Israeli's also just because crazy people get their hands on nukes dose not mean we should evacuate the planet it means we should go to war. 5. Oil dependency dose not cause terrorism pissed off Muslims cause terrorism look at history the Arabs were being asses before oil look at Mohammad he told people to convert infidel's to Islam at all coasts even killing them and they have been oil dose not cause terrorism.	PRO	605
605	S73548fe7-Af82b50f5	colonization of the moon would fail and not be worth it to humanity	I believe that colonization of the moon would be useless to humanity and major waste of resources. The moon has nothing to offer but space and we could have no gain of resources, not only that but we would have to give everything from water food and air to it the entire idea would be a waste of time and resources.	PRO	606
606	S73548fe7-Aa15738c4	colonization of the moon would fail and not be worth it to humanity	Pro agrees 2. Pro agrees 4. Pro agrees Most of the agruements I make the Pro drops or agrees with me. Since the Pro agrees with me on most than I see mothing but a Con balot. Thank you American5 for you time.	CON	607
607	S73548fe7-A7e08d71d	colonization of the moon would fail and not be worth it to humanity	it's to late in the game so I guess I'll use a plan text THe U.S. Federal government should substantially increase exploration and or developement beyond the Earth's mesosphere by colonizing Mars. 1. the moon has several resources besides He3. It could also hold REMs that are used in the green economy in the military. without the REMs the U.S. military wouldn't function well. 2. India would start a Nuclear hollicost if it where to happen. ANy country would and there'd be no surrvivors. Chinesse Supercomputer is important it tecnically runs the country. So if China is faster than the U.S. they would be able to fight us better. 3.Global Warming, famine, deforestation are all reasons to move to the moon and even Mars in the late future acording to the www.futuretimeline.com	CON	608
608	S73548fe7-Ac901726c	colonization of the moon would fail and not be worth it to humanity	Because the Chinese are two seconds faster than us dose not make them a threat also global warming has very little evidence supporting it also famine deforestation the moon isn't really a great farming community and if you haven't noticed it has no forrest so that would be like saying lets go sailing in the desert also no country except maybe Arabic nations would go on a nuclear holocaust most of us like living and not killing our own people to kill the others. Also there is little known about the moons supply of resources so who knows if colonization would even give us anything besides a couple rocks of the resources.	PRO	609
609	S73548fe7-Af28fdc87	colonization of the moon would fail and not be worth it to humanity	He3 can be used to help to detect the smuggling of nuclear wepons. He3 is in a low supply and is mainly found in Nuclear wepons. 2. India may not have attacked anyone yet, but there nuclear and biological wepon arsinal is full. China: look at the Chosin Resivor the Chinesses dominated the U.S. and UN forces. Also look at the Chinesses SuperComputer it can do 2.5 tasks a second while U.S. SuperComputer can do .5. U.S. is also in threat of EMPs and the DOD and GBLs can't do much about it. 3. NASA is active and will be going to Mars in 2030 and an astriod in 2025 according to Obama. The threat of an astriod colison is nearly impossible even Apothis won't hit when it makes to passes in the future. NASA is also using the Orion rocket to get to the moon. (Earth's moon or Luna if you prefer.)	CON	610
610	S6097348b-Aa162f9ad	Is nature worth more attention than technology	"First of all I'm sorry for not posting my argument earlier. 1.) Now I am not like con. I don't have to quote what some famous people have said because I have an opinion of my own and I intend to stand behind my words not behind other peoples believes. 2.) I don't think that con actually knows what he is saying. ( I will go to extremes for example. ) Con is saying that humans value technology more than nature. So lets say that something happens and all of the living beings on Earth suddenly die. Now lets say that technology somehow saved humans from extinction. Some people would start arguing whether or not humans should do something to save the nature. Now con believes that they would decide that Nature ain't important and they would let her die. Now oxygen would become a problem but people are smart. They would figure out a way to produce and sell it. People will in this case be living in their houses, paying taxes for oxygen and will never be able to go out without masks. Now generations would pass and people would forget about trees nature and everything. They would get used to it. But can you imagine a world with no nature? I bet that if you took a video of what the planet looks like today with the nature, trees, animals, pets and everything I bet that if you would show that video to a person in the technology based future that I described before they would start to look for a way to get it back. But I don't believe that people would chose technology over nature in the first place. But the scenario that I described is exactly what con is suggesting humans would do. 3.) Just to be clear I am not saying that we should abandon all of technology and go back to stone age. I'm just making a point that people should consider to what point is technology taking us. Because if things go on like this people will soon become slaves to technology. 4.) Con believes Nature is ""a crazy bitch and a freak show"" but let me just say something. We all know that kids normally have innocent minds so tell me why do they still prefer living dogs, parrots, cats to robotic ones. Because they do exist and are not that expensive. 5.) I agree with the con we are just like abusive husbands to nature. We beat her we say that she is worthless, we don't acknowledge her UNTIL we need her. Let me just say that technology has been with man (and by man I mean humanity just to be clear. I have nothing against women. ) only a couple of decades. But before all that nature was the one taking care of us, making sure we had food to eat and water to drink. So how are we not like abusive husbands to her. We used her and pretended that we love her for such a long time until we got addicted to alcohol (that stand for technology). Now a few years ago I read somewhere that we were almost hit by a wave that would destroy everything that runs on electricity. (I don't remember the details, sorry), but if that really happened if men couldn't get the alcohol (tech) their reaction would be the same as of the abusive husbands. First men would go crazy and than they would run back to nature. And she would help us regardless of our mistakes and how we are treating her now. So how can you say that nature is a freak show??? 6.) And I would also like to back up my statement ""But it is hard for most of the people to resist the easy way of living that technology offers. Technology supports our laziness. And I think that this is the only reason people like it... and if you look deep into every persons heart I'm sure that they would prefer living their lives in some hut in forest by the lake without any worries, to rooms full of computers, televisions and other technologies."" Con has suggested that if my statement was correct billionaires would have to abandon technology and start a different lifestyle. Now that's not true. Because if someone worked hard their whole life to get that amount of power, respect, and money they can't just throw away all of the hard work that they have done in the past and go live in nature where their money doesn't mean a thing. But that doesn't mean that they don't prefer nature to technology deep in their hearts. It is just harder for them because technology for them is easy to get and it is always easier to take a simple lazy road but not always better. But regardless of that I haven't yet heard of billionaire who wouldn't have some cottage or hut or villa somewhere outside the cities in the nature. 7.) I would just like to end my argument with this. If people were to hate nature than why do they build parks in the cities, why do we put flowers in our house, why is it considered more romantic to bring flowers to a girl instead of a new phone if people really do prefer technology."	PRO	611
611	S6097348b-Af4df9e6e	Is nature worth more attention than technology	Nowadays people spend so much time in devotion to technology (our little creation) but we often forget that nature is the one making our lives possible. She is the one that gives us unlimited supply of air and oxygen and she never demands nothing in return. Now imagine yourself creating something and than just giving it for free even though the users of your product harm you over and over again and never even thank you. I don't believe that you would last long. But we have to change our ways because otherwise nature will turn her back on us eventually. Sooner or later she will have enough of us treating her this way and when that day comes people will regret their actions but it will be too late. Sadly it is in our nature to miss things only when we lose them.	PRO	612
612	S6097348b-Abd5812c7	Is nature worth more attention than technology	I accept the debate. Good Luck—I see you are new to DDO too.	CON	613
613	S6097348b-A21fc38ea	Is nature worth more attention than technology	Yes I am new and thanks. Good luck to you too. I never understood how can people ignore all of the complexity and beauty in nature. I mean why would someone willingly spend their time rather on a piece of tech than outside with people. So many opportunities are missed because of that. Now I understand why people think so highly of technology. I mean it surely makes our lives easier but the easy way isn't always the best way. But on the other hand when people stay away from nature for a long time they start craving for it. They need it because we are a part of it. For example people who live in cities always like to go to nature for holidays to relax. And just by taking this common phrase to go in nature to relax.... it shows that people prefer nature over technology, because if it was the other way around people wouldn't go hiking, climbing, cycling, ..... But it is hard for most of the people to resist the easy way of living that technology offers. Technology supports our laziness. And I think that this is the only reason people like it... and if you look deep into every persons heart I'm sure that they would prefer living their lives in some hut in forest by the lake without any worries, to rooms full of computers, televisions and other technologies.	PRO	614
614	Sd0a8ad59-Ad37796fb	Animal Testing for non-medical reasons. Are the deaths worth it>	I believe that animal testing is a cruel horrible thing. But this isn't about opinions, so on with the facts (and some opinions also)! 1. Over 3 million animals have been tormented all in the name of research. It has been found that only 5-25% of side effects caused by medicines are accurately predicted. 2. It can argued that animal experimentation can be beneficial and has helped find cures for some diseases. However the number of successes are very small. This could be due to differences between species, or due to the fact that these illnesses have been placed in the animals deliberatly. Humans don't catch diseases in this way! Therefore would it not be more logical to use alternatives such as laboratory tests or computer simulators? These will do the job without any slaughter of innocent animals and it will stop inaccuracies caused by differences between species. 3. So why are animals used when the more logical solution would be to use alternative methods? the answer is simple - money. Animal experimantation is much cheaper - and what is the cruel destruction of animals compared to a pile of cash? 4. What would happen if I were to deliberatley give another human a fatal disease, if i were to electrocute, shoot or poison them? This would be considered immorally wrong and I would be labeled as a psycho, and I would most certainly be jailed for it. Yet scientists can do this on a daily basis and no one thinks twice. Are these scientist labeled in this way? No - if they do manage to get lucky and create something beneficial from the torture, then they are seen as heroes. http://www.fazed.com...	CON	615
615	S4a5c09b0-A3a90f91a	Radical Life Extension technology is worth pursuing.	""" you stated in your paragraph about afterlife that we could not become invincible."" ""......we do not know that."" We don't know anything about the future, let's not get ridiculous in our speculations though. Even if invincibility became a possibility, it's unlikely that it would be forced on people. The only people missing an afterlife in your scenario would be people who didn't believe one exists. "" The reality is this procedure wouldn't cure any kind of illness "" What procedure? Radical life extension technologies would obviously be a convergence of several different technologies that push back life expectancy a little here and a little there, and when all of it comes together has a huge impact. I've already mentioned the radical life extension that has occurred since the year 1900, which can be attributed to probably over 100 things. Radical life extension would likely benefit the sick and the healthy alike. Better medicine will help us push back our sick years and preventive medicine such as vaccines will prevent many sicknesses. "" This will be expensive "" Why are you assuming low supply and high demand. I've already explained why this wouldn't be the case. You can't assume because something is high demand it will be low supply. Or because it's low supply it will be high demand. Even if the costs are high so what. At least some people would be able to live longer and some are better then none. If you look at my opponents last paragraph in the previous round you will see she is now a proponent of radical life extension. She points out that we will learn more about nutrition and it will allow us to add several years to our life. She points out that this knowledge ( technology ) is a good thing. Con has conceded the debate."	PRO	616
616	S4a5c09b0-Acc6227c	Radical Life Extension technology is worth pursuing.	All arguments extended.	PRO	617
617	S4a5c09b0-A4f3b6ff9	Radical Life Extension technology is worth pursuing.	"You stated in your paragraph about afterlife that we could not become invincible. The indefinite fact here is we do not know that. We also don't know if we can even increase our life span from what It is now. So if we are going to logically consider this we can't rule out anything especially when nothing is definite. Living to be healthy. The reality of it, is that this procedure wouldn't cure any kind of illness. It isn't some magic pill that cures cancer or rids you of aids. Currently 26.5 million adults have been diagnosed with heart disease.-http://www.cdc.gov... That is a fatal disease and you aren't going to cure it with this ""medication"". The reality of it is that these people are still going to die. 26.5 million people and that is just due to one disease. So this would only benefit the healthy, disease ridden humans. As great as that may seem the utter fact that you could be choosing one life over another especially one who is already outliving the other just seems inhumane to some. I love the idea but at the same time the probability isn't high. Obviously Cancer is a huge global issue. We have no definite cure and either way they are still struck by that awful disease that will end their life in most cases. This will be expensive!! Supply and demand- When there is a low supply there is a high demand. This isn't going to be an easy thing to mass produce. So the demand will be high because of the obvious reason of wanting to live longer. That being said the price will be high as in any other situation. Even if it isn't in our lifetime when it does come out millions are still going to die daily. Good Points Yes, this science will be absolutely astonishing. Life changing at least, and we'll have more experience, but if what we want is more life there is other ways to go about it. You made a point about healthier life styles, that alone could have added 20-40 years to some people's lifespan. I'm sure we will learn more about nutrition and growth later down the road and that will benefit, but the idea of a medication is a little unreal in my opinion, and we will be achieving longer lives as we already have been but through simple natural recognitions."	CON	618
618	Sb552379f-Ad410a57b	U.S. schools should teach comprehensive, sex-positive sex education instead of abstinence (Part 2)	In response to your request to post what I believe is effective, I will compare the two options(as there are currently only two main ways in which this subject can be taught) and measure success relative to each other. With that in mind, I intend to show that contraceptive based education is more effective than, or at least not as damaging as, the alternative. My arguments are results-based and hard data focused; I look directly at per capita teen pregnancy and birth rates to form my conclusions. I also noticed that in your sources, you cite no data beyond the early nineties. I have found many flaws in your assertions based on your data, and I request you post more up to date information for future arguments Facts: (Guttmacher Institute [2013 report]; HHS studies [2007, 2008]) By the age of 17, more than half of all teenagers report having sex.[8] This is the period of time when decision making skills are the poorest, and decisions are based more on the “here and now” rather than the vague future. [6][7] Contraceptive use is up considerably; both condoms and hormonal birth control are used more frequently individually and in tandem. While neither on their own is 100% effective, studies have shown a failure of around 6% for condoms and 9-10% for hormonal contraceptives. This is when each form of contraception is used separately. Used together, chances of failure that result in unwanted pregnancy are less than .2%. The rates of dual contraceptive use are up as well. [8] My previous argument showed that the states with the highest rates of teen pregnancy are the states restricted to an abstinence only education. The states with the lowest per capita rates of teen pregnancy are the states that provide comprehensive sex education. This shows that CSE does have a positive effect. [2][3] As one of my sources stated in my last post, abstinence is ineffective in its stated goal: to reduce sexual activity through abstaining from sex. It may even be counterproductive.[5] Rebuttals …many abstinence-only advocates are deeply concerned that information about sex, contraception and HIV can encourage early sexual activity among young people. Abstinence only advocates may believe this, but the department of Health and Human Services and a recent study conducted by the University of Washington has shown that this is false. Providing information on sexual activity does not encourage teenagers to have sex.[4][5] The problems that have become so entrenched in our country, such as AIDS, illegitimate births, poverty, increasing crime and the breakdown of the nuclear family, can all be attributed to the debilitating effects of a public policy that condones sex without love or responsibility. Crime is not increasing. This is a public misconception; violent crime has been decreasing since the early nineties, and is continuing to decrease today. I have no data on the breakdown of the nuclear family, but illegitimate births and the spread of HIV have all been on a downward path in recent years. Your claim regarding “sex without love and responsibility” is also misleading. The majority of teenagers who report having sexual intercourse claim that they have done so with a steady partner. [8] …abstinence and decreased sexual activity among sexually active adolescents are primarily responsible for the decline during the 1990s in adolescent pregnancy, birth and abortion rates. Attributing these declines to increased contraception is not supported by the data. Contraceptive use decreases the chance of pregnancy by upwards of 94%. Use of contraceptives has increased relative to previous years. As contraceptive use has increased, pregnancy and birth rates have gone down. The decline in abortion rates is due to a lack of access, with many states restricting the rights of underage girls to obtain an abortion procedure. [10] Clarifications Huh? What’s not feasible? Abstinence has been there for many years now, so what’s not feasible? Please provide evidence how abstinence is not feasible. Perhaps “feasible” was not right word. It would be better to say that it is unreasonable to expect constant adherence to the principles of abstinence, especially when drugs and alcohol enter the picture. It is well documented that teenagers lack the ability to make accurate decisions and consider the real consequences of their actions[6][7]. That was the point of my fifth paragraph. For a significant minority of teenagers, the decision to engage in sex is not thought out, impulsive and done in the heat of the moment, often under the influence. Wherever there are teenagers seeking alcohol or drugs, it will be provided. Combine this with the effects of peer pressure and you have the conditions for a bad decision. [6][7] Points The American Psychological Association, the American Medical Association, the National Association of School Psychologists, the American Academy of Pediatrics, the American Public Health Association, the Department of Health and Human Services, the Guttmacher Institute, Advocates for Youth, and many more organizations have all stated official support for comprehensive sex education. These organizations cite the failure abstinence only programs to delay or reduce sexual activity, as well as the relative success of comprehensive sex education programs in the states where such programs are part of the curriculum, as the reason for this decision. There is no evidence, at all, to suggest that providing sex education increases sexual activity.[4][5] What has been shown to encourage risky sexual activity is exposure to peer pressure, which only increases as time wears on. The effects of peer pressure and social status incentives are one of the highest motivators for developing adolescents. [6] In the medical and psychological communities, sexual activity after puberty is considered to be inevitable and unavoidable[9]. It is the position of the advocates for comprehensive sex education that teenagers need to be taught how to correctly prevent the spread of STI’s and reduce the risk for unwanted pregnancy. As I said in the beginning of this argument, I measure the success of these programs relative to each other. An absolute measure of success is vague, and has the potential for erroneous results. I can and have shown the relative benefits of CSE through the lower per capita teen birth rates in states that teach CSE compared to the higher per capita teen birth rates in states that teach abstinence only education.[2][3] Using the metric of relative success, it is clear that abstinence only education has failed[4][5]. It has been shown not to delay sex, or reduce sexual activity in any measureable way. Evidence shows that the majority of adolescents engage in sexual activity before marriage[8]. It is already happening and continuing to happen. It is morally, ethically, and socially irresponsible to not instruct these sexually inexperienced teens in proper use of contraception, which does reduce the rates of pregnancy and STI’s. Sources http://www.unicef-irc.org... http://www.livescience.com... http://www.siecus.org... http://www.mathematica-mpr.com... http://www.washingtonpost.com... http://suite101.com... http://science.howstuffworks.com... http://www.guttmacher.org...	PRO	619
619	Se6ffa8fb-Af84e80d7	If everyone has a degree, then what is it worth? The answer – nothing	Not every University is taking students with 3 D’s and an E. Especially if a student wants to study a difficult subject. But many students, who have the ability to learn, willing to learn and gain everything, just can’t afford it. Wouldn’t the Government benefit from having more successful people, who pay taxes? I think that uni should be free, but the “taking in” rules should be harder.	CON	620
620	S928598bf-Ab0289d87	The only war worth fighting is the one against inequalities	This topic can be totally be disagreed upon. There are more prominent wars to be fought against like for example the war against poverty. A society in which some people have millions of dollars a year to live on and others have tens of thousands ,which might well be unequal. But as along as people have those tens of thousands then there's going to be comparatively less poverty from a society with people who are more equal but have an annual income of $500 to live upon. Would it be fair to fight for one thing only because we have a weakness for that particular subject over others and leave the other? Wouldn't it be fatal?	CON	621
621	Sa60e8842-A7b8ad7e9	Education Reform	As you stated, Elementary School is for building a foundation of knowledge (by the way: my brother graduated at 12 when I was a child, and most elementary schools go to 6th). If a broad spread of topics were taught, students would be much more prepared for the classes you're taking. This would ensure success as an adult, and would not make children choose electives. 2. In math, friendship doesn't help you solve a problem, and respect doesn't help you spell a word. In what way do life skills reinforce the topic? As shown in the previous sentence, life skills and the subjects are unrelated. In addition, I was taught life skills as a child in the 70s so your chronic frame shows nothing. Note: I was taught the facts and skills you have posted for all of elementary in 3rd grade. 3. While this may be true, materialism is still heavily embedded in American culture, and in this environment, a lack of wealth can be devastating to the structure of a family. Perhaps a successful career will lead to these social riches, and life skills will not. In schools, children are taught to be happy, however, this delays sobriety and does not foster a good life in the real world (by your definition: happiness). I never defined real world life skills as money. 4. Yes, but this area of schools serves to create no foundation of specialized skills. If Elementary level children were taught a thin coverage of the basics of most careers, they would be more prepared for the electives such as what you take.	PRO	622
622	Sa60e8842-A819f6654	Education Reform	"Note: I am in High School A lot is said about how children today are taught things that have little to no use in the real world. I think my opponent is looking a a very narrow part of our school system and needs to open his eyes. I will disprove my opponent contentions on the following grounds: Contention #1 Life Skills My opponent had mentioned how life skills were apparently ""useless"" in the real world. My opponent may be referring to financial side of life, but there's a whole lot to more life then just how far you can get up the corporate latter. Teaching things like respect, friendship, values, and morals. These are the secrets to happiness and these aren't real life skills then what are? Time, time and again it has been proven the money can't buy happiness. http://www.washingtonpost.com... Contention #2 Life Skill are not the only thing taught at School Believe it or not, now more then ever we are teaching our kids ""real life"" skills as well as life skills. In my high school for instance you have a wide selection of courses and you can pick whatever interests you and what you'd like to pursue in the real world. For instance I'm interested in pursing Law, and my school offers Law & Justice and Business Law. These classes will be EXTREMELY relevant to what I choose to pursue in the real world and are far more practical then what used to be taught. Before your choice (according to my father) was limited to Spanish or French. Administrators can even set up internships that count towards your required high school credits! My opponent didn't contend a lot of information so that's it for this round; I look forward to my opponents response."	CON	623
623	Sa60e8842-A1628f19d	Education Reform	As my opponent has forfeited the preceding round of debate for an unknown reason, all my contentions remain standing, and I shall simply place an additional one on the table. However, I would first like to thank my opponent for providing an excellent beginning experience in online debating. In school, mathematics, science, and history are all taught fruitlessly. In a work-style environment, the children would utilize these skills day after day, intertwining them in their work as they would do in the real world. However, in the current system, children are taught the subjects disconnectedly from the real world. If I may inquire, why the forfeit.	PRO	624
624	S51e5652c-Ac36bf5cc	Education nowadays should be mostly computerized	"I will pass onto your research after I go over a few points that you struggle to understand from the last 3 rounds. Because you have never written a program, you struggle to understand how the ""presence"" system works. Since many people have their phones with them, or a computerized device (some school integrate computers in their school system). A student could download an app. Thats what the apps responsibility be. A teacher will have the role of pressing a button that will send a request to a server that the lesson has started. The server will, then send, a request to all the students devices of their locations. If the student is outside of school, the devices wont send back a response. Everything will be done only with the teacher sending a request (even that process can be automated by writing a program). The student doesnt have to press or do anything to report being present. From the system, there are no effort made that is too strenuous and no privacy is violated because of tracking someone outside of school area. All you then get, is data of when and in what class the student was present. That data can then be transformed to a nice report, that the parent, or management can look at. If you prefer the old method of name calling or noting on paper who is present and how is not, then fine. It is a marginal point in this discussion and a nice feature that I simply thought would be nice to have. "" what I meant in 5 was that you need to encode the information in a face-to-face environment then an app could help to reinforce it. But it should not be the primary mode of encoding."" I think that you dont know what encoding means in cognitive psychology. It doesnt necessarily mean to store information in the long term memory. You could also encode information in the short memory. It is the students job to choose what method to choose to store information in the long-term memory. Some students dont even use notes. I have a method that is different than most people use. Part of it is research supported. ""what I meant in 5 was that you need to encode the information in a face-to-face environment then an app could help to reinforce it. But it should not be the primary mode of encoding."" What difference does it make if it is primary or secondary, you, yourself consider if it assists you. I would love to have lots of apps with drills to help me memorize what I have learnt. They track your progress and question you a lot, .. it helps a lot! ""Again, I said that an online community could be HELPFUL but should not be the primary method of learning."" Another type of statements that try to respond to something that I didnt argue for. ""No, you won't have google on the exam. and every citation I've provided shows that face-to-face instruction is the best way to make sure that the information is in long term memory. As my citations in my first post show, using the internet to learn inhibits long term encoding.' Lets come to your citations. I read all the research apart from that Greek article. None focused on the relationship between face-to-face interactions/teaching and effective long term memory storing. Without referring to research. You need to know a few concepts in psychology before continuing to the next round. Short term memory is memory that exists for specific amount of time, usually seconds. The duration of short term memory seems to be between 15 and 30 seconds, according to Atkinson and Shiffrin (1971). There are different types of memories, http://www.human-memory.net... For academic purposes, you want to store as much valid information as you can into the long term memory.. usually would mean a semester or until the end of the year. This is the minimal longevity that information should be stored, for learning to be effective. In other systems, mostly secondary school systems in some countries, the critical period of time is 1 week, as those systems are based on constant assessment. Here is a method that I used to store information in long term memory, https://www.amazon.com... The book is based on research. Some of the information will be stored from short term memory to long term, such to episodic or semantic memory. But that would only happen in very particular circumstances and most material (such as names, facts, dates) will be needed to be reiterated throught revisions at home. Dont you think it is a bit preposterous to say that face-to-face instruction is the best way to make sure that the information is in long term memory? Because if that statement was true, then the students wouldnt even have to do revision or much revision at home before approaching the exam. Everything will be already stored in memory after the lecture. If you have attended any academic lesson, you would know that statement is utterly ludicrous. ""No, you won't have google on the exam. and every citation I've provided shows that face-to-face instruction is the best way to make sure that the information is in long term memory. As my citations in my first post show, using the internet to learn inhibits long term encoding."" You must learn some research methodology and have a basic understanding of the difference between a simple correlation and statistical methods that identify causal factors. Now to the research. I read through them all, they do support a correlation between off-line students doing better. But they lack the validity to address the points in my first argument. My system is more targeted to the students needs, if it is to cut the tuition fees, have higher accessability to online material (e.g. papers, articles, forums) or drill the material (for example, through quizzes). You posted your last source, by mistake, I guess. Thats because it supports my arguments. Note that I already said that the online system requires more disciplined students (i.e. not any random student) and it has to be structured in a certain way to be effective. Read the extract of your last citiation and read the last line. ""Trevathan and Myers (2013) examined the implementation of the Process-Oriented Guided Inquiry learning technique in on-line IT courses. Earlier studies in traditional classroom lectures showed that this technique improved students"" problem solving abilities, interpersonal skills and learning outcomes, which encouraged them to examine the implementation in an on-line environment. The incorporation of wikis, blogs and Facebook into the learning management system was viewed favorably by both teachers and students in increasing engagement and supporting group work. The capstone project is an important component of most IT programs. It could be challenging for students to complete the capstone project in an on-line environment, especially when working in groups. Tappert and Stix (2011) implemented procedures to effectively manage geographically distributed student teams in a hybrid capstone IT course. They highlighted the importance of course organization; effective instructor-student communication and setting clear guidelines and expectations for each member of the team. This is similar to what Newman and Hermans (2008) found when forming virtual teams to work on a marketing project as part of an MBA graduate course in marketing. Lapsley, Kulik, Moody, and Arbaugh (2008) investigated the validity of this theory by Said, Kirgis, Verkamp, & Johnson comparing on-line and face-to-face course structures for a senior level human resource management course, and concluded that online learning may even be superior in its overall effect on students"" performance"" I have no more characters left. We can discuss more studies. But the more you bring the more they will be mixed.. and the more you discover that there are valid ones. Valid because they show that the application of the technology was successful to the education system."	PRO	625
625	Se6573295-A488dbdca	The electoral college ought to be abolished.	R1 is for acceptance.	PRO	626
626	S7239d5ee-A3c2f5736	Education is perception of skills	I dont think that any type of perception is required for skills because perception is needed for quality and skill is not a quality but its an ability...	CON	627
627	Se6a1eebb-Aaa4708fe	Abolish the Electoral College	I will begin my arguments in the next round.	PRO	628
628	Se6a1eebb-A72245f6	Abolish the Electoral College	I accept.	CON	629
629	Sc1b61f69-A280eaa43	Mixed-sex dormitories should be the only dormitory type permitted at higher education institutes	Thanks to my opponent for accepting the debate and I hope we can have a fun and educational debate. Before I lay out my main arguments for why I believe dormitories in higher education should be mixed sex. Let me elaborate on mixed sex dormitories, as some interesting questions have arisen in the comments. I am for mixed dormitories on the same floors, or separate floors, or even with men and women sharing the same room. As such my opponent can be against either of these systems as I am for it. However, when men and women are sharing the same room obviously this is a choice. This is not a proposition that we are going to be a Nazi style system where people are forced to do things they do not want i.e. share the same room with someone of the opposite sex. To elaborate further, if my best friend (female) and I want to share a room we should be allowed to. Now with that behind me, let me get to my arguments. Argument 1 is for equality. The simple fact is that if my opponent wants to win this debate they have to show that all types of dormitories besides mixed sex should be banned at higher education institutes (HEI). The reasoning behind this is simple at any HEI that only has single sex dormitories leads to homosexuals been able to live together. Clearly not all homosexual couples will want to live in the same dormitory, or room but there may be some that will. In the same manner straight couples should be afforded the same rights. My opponent may argue this is an absurd point, however if you consider that about 20 % of the population is attracted to the same sex this is not a bizarre claim.(1) In fact even if we use the often cited only 10 %, that still is 1 in ten, this premise holds. On a side note, remember that number next time you are with a group of friends. Even if my opponent may argue that everyone should be in single rooms in separate male and female dormitories. This is just as absurd, as we are well aware that college kids don't obey rules and so the same sex couple will still be getting it on in relative ease compared to the straight couples who are separated by not one wall but one entire building and the space in between. Argument 2 is for society. Males and females have to be able to function together in the modern world, as such what a better way to let people to get along than by putting them in a situation where they are required to mingle. This will benefit society in the long term, in the same way that co-education benefits school children (school in the sense means pre HEI).(2) Additionally, what a great way to meet potential mates of the opposite or same sex. Additionally, it increases your chances of making those life long connections that people make at colleges as the number of people you are in contact with is increased by 100 % if we consider a 1:1 ratio of women and men in the world. These connections are often not only for personal reasons but also business. So in effect we are increasing the chance of successful business partnerships that could happen and this is clearly beneficial for society. Argument 3 is for eradication of sexism. This argument fits in well with Argument 2, but I thought I would separate it as sexism is such a highly contentious issue in society nowadays. If you have men and women living in the same quarters this will surely eradicate sexism. An analogy to this is the dismantling of mixed race schools had a large effect towards eradicating racism and improving self respect of the parties involved.(3) When people are made to spend more time with others they will naturally get to see that these people are the same as them and as such learn to respect them. This may seem a silly point. However, imagine this type of process been made to happen in a country like Saudi Arabia where women are considered half a man. It will surely force men to be respectful of women. Additionally, in a country like Britain (or the USA) where sexism is such a minor problem it will surely help kill if off completely. In closing, I would like to say that even though students spend time in class together and hanging out having a beer, the issues of equality still exist in society. An easy way to get rid of this is to force people into a situation that will in the end benefit themselves and society. I now hand the debate over to my opponent. (1) http://www.smithsonianmag.com... (2) http://www.sciencemag.org... (3) http://www.apa.org...	PRO	630
630	S54bdc9d5-Ab46e7145	College athletes should not be paid.	I accept your challenge.	CON	631
631	S9f212a53-A347c738	Voucher Education	"1) Your remarks regarding problems with school funding are well-taken; however, my concern is how efficiently the funding is utilized. Under the public school system, school funding (whatever the amount, whatever the source) is used inefficiently. The crux of my argument centers on introducing competition to the educational system. School vouchers are but one method of doing so. I realize that vouchers are not a panacea, but they are, if managed correctly, an effective tool to introduce competition. If history as taught us, the free market system, if properly regulated, produces the most efficient, progressive, and robust delivery system for goods and services. Our challenge is to introduce these forces into our educational system. Merit pay for teachers and other monetary incentives to improve educational outcome, including competition between schools, are imperative. The voucher system is one way to slowly introduce competition between all schools, public and private. 2) Regarding your comments about bulldozing poor-performing schools, and the belief that choice is not an important influence: the concept of a free market is that successful organizations will flourish and unsuccessful organizations will cease to exist. In our scenario, poor performing schools will not be ""bulldozed"", but will simply shrink into irrelevancy. As parents exercise their right to choose and students migrate from poor performing schools to good performing schools (be they public or private) market forces will supply better schools. Please understand that his is a dynamic process that will eventually seek the best solution. In addition, the premise that properly managed, motivated, and incentivized public schools cannot compete with private schools in a free market system is not a forgone conclusion. I believe that there is a need for and a future for high-performing public and private schools. Choice is a good thing; these options are not mutually exclusive. 3) With all due respect, your solution regarding the privatization of school boards may introduce some expertise from our business community, but it will not introduce competition among schools and it doesn't expand choice. Even if the private not-profit school board was to attempt implementation of strategies from the business community (ie: merit pay), they would still be at the mercy of the politicians, teachers' unions, and other forces that will tend to resist such changes. It's good that we agree there is a problem, as that is the beginning of all solutions. My suggestion regarding school vouchers is only part of a bigger solution that I hopefully have better defined herein."	PRO	632
632	S7064c844-Ab616c971	DDD's 30th debate: Physical Education SHOULD be a requirement in schools	INTRODUCTION l can’t believe it has been 30 debates! Anyways, On to the debate! The resolution is “Physical Education should be a requirement in schools” I am pro, or for this resolution. IMPORTANT THINGS ***THIS DEBATE IS IMPOSSIBLE TO ACCEPT*** Comment (Or message me) if you would like to accept. RULES - THE LAYOUT FOR THE DEBATE WILL BE: Round 1: Acceptance ONLY 2: Up to 3 arguments, no refutations 3: Up to 3 arguments, no refutations 4: Up to 3 arguments, no refutations 5: Refutations and conclusion only, no new arguments outside of the refutations allowed. -No posting links to google docs. I have made this mistake before. -NO SWEARING. INSULTS OR RACIAL SLURS. -Forfeiting and/or breaking any of these rules means loss of all points. CONCLUSION Good luck! DDD	PRO	633
633	Sb6d2bbc8-Adaf69278	The Electoral College Should Be Abolished	"I will first defend my arguments, then attack my opponent's. Con starts by saying that voters actually were educated when the EC was created. This is untrue because they being ""white, male, adult property-owners"" does not mean that they know what a candidate is running for. The fact of the matter is that it was that information traveled slowly, and even then not everyone wanted to hear it. Con then goes on to say that voting wasn""t even important back then, but that has no impact in this debate. The number of states that had a popular vote in 1788 has no effect on whether or not we should have an EC now. Con""s next refutation says that my argument of people votes not counting applies to any election. This is not true. In the congress elections that Con references, congressmen win their seats by the number of popular votes they win, so even if your candidate doesn""t win, your vote still counted. In the presidential election, on the other hand, the president wins by getting enough electoral votes. This means that if your state votes for a different candidate than you do, then your vote does not effect who wins. Con also says that I only have one good example of when the popular vote was better than the EC, but Con has no example of when the EC was better than the popular vote. The main idea of my argument here is that the EC is disproportionate to the popular vote. Because we live in a democracy, there is no reason why the election of our president should not follow the voice of the people. Unfortunately, the EC can vary from that voice. So unless Con can show why we shouldn""t follow the voice of the people in our presidential election, then I should win this debate. Now, onto my opponent""s arguments. Con""s first argument talks about how the EC was the founders vision for this country. This is not a good enough reason to keep the EC. The founders also permitted things like slavery and keeping women from voting, but those were clearly wrong. The fact that is has been used in the past is a faulty reason and should be disregarded. Next, Con talks about the 2000 election, which actually furthers my case. In this election, the EC went against the voice of the people, causing a large controversy. Like I said before, unless Con can show why it is OK to go against the voice of the people, this debate goes to me. After that Con makes a point about how the EC ""supports and prevents third party runs"". This seems like a contradiction to me so could you explain that a little more next round? Anyway, I do agree that third parties are good and do bring up important issues, but Con gives no explanation of why the EC helps third parties. Unless Con can show how the EC is better than the public vote here, then this point falls. In the next point, Con has the same problem. He points out an important issue, like the death of a candidate, but gives no reason why the EC is better than popular vote. Until he proves that EC us better here, this point falls as well. Con""s last point talks about how difficult it would be to switch over to a popular election. This is a very weak point though because it does not show that the EC is better. It would not be very hard to convert to a popular election because the popular vote is already counted, we just need to choose the president on that instead of on EC votes. Also, if we opposed everything that would be difficult to get through congress, we would never get anywhere and we would still have slaves, no women""s suffrage, and very few laws. I am winning this debate because I have show how a popular vote would be better through a situation like the 2000 election, but Con has no arguments as to why the EC is better."	PRO	634
634	S50de86d9-A118f2f3b	Free college is a terrible idea.	All points extended.	PRO	635
635	Sb27f930b-A5c2e0c05	The electoral college should be abolished	I accept.	CON	636
636	Sb27f930b-A35e6b914	The electoral college should be abolished	No no	CON	637
637	Sb27f930b-Af55bd6fa	The electoral college should be abolished	My opponent seems to have forefeited her last argument.	PRO	638
638	Sb27f930b-Accc53cac	The electoral college should be abolished	Well, I guess this debate can't be continued much further.	PRO	639
639	Sbcbd1234-A818e5dc4	Public schools should offer education in world religions both historically and in religious beliefs	I believe that religion has nothing of worth to share in the modern world. If we teach what we think is good of religion then we must also teach the failures' , and there are many. A balanced view or no view. Long past are the days where religion can occupy the moral high ground and take credit for morality. It has abused it's position to often to be taken seriously. The value of Religion should be debated in schools and young people allowed to think critically about faith.	CON	640
640	Sc9466f76-Ac1d35676	Single Sex Education is Better than Co-Education	"Thank you so much for such a lively debate! Too bad you missed the last round, though. It's been a pleasure. Things to remember when you vote: 1. With the state of out national school system now, we can leave no stone unturned and there is completely conclusive evidence that my opponent has failed to refute that shows how grades are improved in single-sex schools. 2. Single-sex schools teach students that they can try new subjects without being judged because those subjects are ""boyish"" or ""girly"" 3. Girls and boys learn differently. It is in the brain! They must be treated differently for maximum learning efficiency. 4. Single sex students can still interact with people outside of class 5. My opponent had no sources for his refutations and counter refutations. Vote for single-sex schools and vote for teaching our students better!"	PRO	641
641	S5e977bfe-A73ed8eea	Public Education is Better for Society than Private Education	Good debate man, and I think you actually almost convinced me! Your arguments weren't perfect, but they were quite good. You worked hard in this debate, I'll give you the victory.	CON	642
642	S5e977bfe-A1e0dc765	Public Education is Better for Society than Private Education	In this debate, I will argue that public schools are generally better than private schools for the public. My contender will try to prove the converse. Round 1 is acceptance. Round 2 is opening statement. Round 3 is rebuttal. Round 4 is rebuttal/conclusion. I look forward to the debate.	PRO	643
643	S5e977bfe-A89efcea8	Public Education is Better for Society than Private Education	I accept this debate.	CON	644
644	S55c05f7c-Ac0c00a76	The Electoral College Should be Abolished	"This has been a thrilling and insightful debate, Con. My gratitude goes out for the arguments provided and hope that this will wrap up nicely and give readers a more informed examination of the EC. Disagreeing with the claim that I must prove every single argument my opponent provides wrong to win, I don't believe that voters must choose my opponent's argument over mine because they feel there was one flaw in it even if it is overall stronger than my opponents' arguments. Although I am challenging the status quo, I believe that rule is a bit over the top given how unfair of a disadvantage it would push on me. No such rule was stated in my opening round and I will not comply to it since it is not how debates work on this site regardless of whether the status quo is being challenged or not. It is up to the voters to decide, and if they believe one side was stronger than the other then they will so vote by the proper means. Rebuttals Re: Minority votes per states As a democracy, it is much more important that the people themselves are properly represented rather than the states are. As mentioned earlier, each state is different with boundaries that are bigger or smaller than others. If we define an election's results by state boundaries rather than individuals, then the people's individual liberties are being violated. In the PV, there would be no minority or majority votes based on borders, but each vote would count for itself, equal to every other vote in the whole country. With the EC, we have to make some peoples' votes count more or be ""represented more"" because of the states they are living in, but it is completely unnecessary to because we could have a much more simple system such as the PV. If we stopped disregarding the minority votes in the EC, then yes, it would be unfair to the majority votes in small states only if we kept the EC. In the PV, the concept of minority and majority votes would be completely wiped away, which would be more fair for everyone. Unfairness would not exist because state boundaries would not be considered. No one would be under or over-represented in the PV. It may not be possible to show how many more people would vote in the PV (since a PV has never been established), but it is a valid conclusion to make considering how overrun some peoples' votes are. If a voter knows that a solid state is not going to be affected by his or her single vote, then they are indeed discouraged from voting at all. What is the point of voting when your vote will have no effect whatsoever on the outcome of an election? In a PV however, everyone's vote will count equally towards the result regardless of who that voters' state neighbors are. In a solid state in the EC, someone's neighbors define one's vote, not the actual voter himself. It doesn't matter whether California is 34.6% red or 49.9% red; it's minority representation would not count at all. Only the vote that exceeds 50% counts. If every state in the Union including D.C. voted 49% for Candidate A and 51% for Candidate B (per state), then Candidate B would receive 538 electoral votes and Candidate would receive 0. This is in fact unfair representation and a violation of the concept of free democracy. Re: Unequal representation Again, states do not need representation in an election, the people do. The state of Wyoming would not be represented in the PV but the people will. There is no reason to base elections off of states rather than the citizens since that would contradict individual liberty and would give more power to areas and boundaries, not people. The U.S. Constitution, the Bill of Rights, and all subsequent amendments pertain to or protect individual rights. Why is it that individual liberty seems to disappear when it comes to the EC? It is true that in the EC, Wyoming would have to have a disproportionate amount of representatives to actually have a voice in the election. Instead of receiving 0 votes, it receives 3 votes, which over-represents it. If Wyoming happened to have a civil war and split into East and West Wyoming, then each half would receive 3 votes, giving the citizens even more of a vote that counts toward the result of the election. The Constitution grants every state, no matter how few people live in it, at least 3 votes in the EC[1]. For the EC to perfectly represent the popular vote, it would have to give an electoral vote for each vote cast. Easily we recognize that the PV does just this, but without the ""electoral"" in it. Re: President with minority vote The fact that a minority represented president has been elected four times shows that the EC is unjust as it does not follow the popular vote that well. True, it may not have occurred that many times, but it could always occur again and shouldn't be disregarded simply because probability is low. The upcoming 2016 election has the potential to turn into another minority voted president, just as much as the 2020 one does and every one after. The PV would eliminate this once and for all, as the PV would perfectly represent what the people vote and want. Do we as Americans really want to keep such a flawed system where the possibility of a candidate with less than a quarter of national vote can get elected? To what extremes do we have to go just to protect ""under-representation"" of small states that could completely be avoided in a PV? Re: Third party candidates Every candidate deserves to be recorded in a national election, with each of their votes for them properly displayed. It doesn't matter if they win or not, since only one candidate wins, so for a third party candidate to not even be able to make the slightest mark on an election or leave behind the lowliest legacy is disheartening. As said before, runoff elections sometimes happen in the EC because of a third party candidate who was a bit more influential than normal. In this case, if the top two candidates are in a tight enough race, then sometimes no one will reach 50% and a separate election is scheduled for a latter date where the third party candidate is dismissed. Everyone deserves to be represented, but unfortunately not everyone is because of the EC that we have. With that, I conclude my arguments for this debate and hand the last round over Con. Thanks to Complicated_Mind for participating in this debate with me and may he have good luck in the voting. [Note: All but one of Con's sources from the last round led to the homepage instead of the actual source. If this problem could be addressed before the end of the debate that would be appreciated.] Source 1. http://www.usconstitution.net..."	PRO	645
645	Se0dd9576-A5bc3e4e4	are the constant phone tappings and violations of privacy worth it? (adressing the NSA and PRISM)	"""Those who surrender freedom for security will not have, nor do they deserve, either one."" - Benjamin Franklin The United States of America was created for one sole purpose, to ensure the freedom of its citizens. What the government is doing is a horrible violation of human rights, to tap the masses over a minuscule chance of a terrorist attack is unjustifiable. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights declares the following: No one shall be subjected to arbitrary interference with his privacy, family, home or correspondence, nor to attacks upon his honour and reputation. Everyone has the right to the protection of the law against such interference or attacks. Then why is the U.S taking matters in their own hands? Why is this horrible breach of the law let through?"	CON	646
646	Se0dd9576-Aef49416e	are the constant phone tappings and violations of privacy worth it? (adressing the NSA and PRISM)	"They state this is solely used for tapping the common person but what about all the politicians they are tapping? They are taking an ""anti terrorist"" system and are using to spy on foreign affairs that concern only insiders of said affair. This act of international tapping and spying cost the U.S its relationship with Germany. The ""anti terrorist"" role of PRISM is nothing but a facade to hide its true purpose."	CON	647
647	S87b8c230-A84d19c01	"Weighing marijuana's ""mind-expansion"" against its costs is subjective."	"Who can say that marijuana use is ""worth it"" or ""not worth it""? Many individuals strongly believe that marijuana use has a ""mind expanding"" effect that makes the health costs worth it. Other disagree. But can the government or anyone conclude for us all that ""it's not worth it""? No. With so much subjectiveness involved, marijuana should not be illegal."	PRO	648
648	Sb552379f-Aa8c9ce92	U.S. schools should teach comprehensive, sex-positive sex education instead of abstinence (Part 2)	Thank you for accepting. I want to apologize for how long it took me to post this argument. Due to many computer glitches, chief among them a fatal bug that caused my computer to crash whenever I logged onto this site, I couldn't post the argument until now. I'm using a different browser, which was the reason for the crash, so the problem shouldn't repeat itself. Onto the debate. I’d like to start off with some facts. Facts: 1. Birth rates are declining [1] and the reasons are varied 2. The US has the highest teen birth rate in the industrial world [1] 3. Within the US, the states with the highest teen birth rates are the states that mandate abstinence only education, stress it, or don’t teach sex ed at all. [2][3] 4. A federal report on abstinence only programs has shown that they have failed to discourage teen sexuality [4] 5. A University of Washington study has shown that comprehensive sex ed can reduce teen pregnancy rates. [5] 6. The prefrontal cortex is not fully developed until the mid-20’s, while the limbic system is fully functional during adolescence.[6][7] Birth rates in general, as well teen birth rates, are declining This is something I feel I must point out early on, since most of my argument uses teen birth rates as a measure. I decided to use teen pregnancy and birth rates because pregnancies more aptly describe the cost of a lack of comprehensive sex ed than do STD’s. Across the industrialized world, fertility rates have been declining [1]. The reasons for the decline are many and varied, but the studies I have read point to more widespread use of contraception [1][5], increased educational opportunities for women, and increased age of first birth [1]. Keep in mind this trend is localized to rich, industrialized nations, not just the US. In many of these countries, comprehensive sex ed and easy access to contraceptives are the norm. The US has the highest teen birth rate of all rich, industrialized nations The US teen birth rate is far higher than any other developed nation in the world(52.8 at the time of study). It is nearly double that of the UK(30.2), which has the second highest rate of teen births. (The metric being used is Births to women aged below 20 per 1000)[1]. There is clearly something that sets the US apart from the other nations in this study. That something is an insistence on teaching abstinence in place of comprehensive sex ed, even though multiple studies have shown that it is ineffective in reducing teen pregnancy and birth rates[4][5]. Abstinence only sex ed may even increase the likelihood of teens engaging in vaginal intercourse [5], although the numbers are not as solid. Within the US, teen pregnancy rates are highest in those states that teach abstinence as part of their curriculum The states with the top ten teen pregnancy rates (New Mexico, Mississippi, Texas, Nevada, Arkansas, Arizona, Delaware, Louisiana, Oklahoma, Georgia) teach abstinence in place of contraceptive based sex ed [2][3]. However, the causes of teen pregnancy cannot be attributed simply to a lack of comprehensive sex ed. Teen pregnancy and birth rates are varied widely across demographics, with poor urban and rural teens having the highest rates of pregnancy and birth. In America, the rates between ethnicities vary greatly, with African American and non-white Hispanic teens having the highest pregnancy rates and birth rates. A federal report has shown that abstinence only sex education has failed in its primary purpose of promoting sexual abstinence, and a University of Washington study backs this up. A report commissioned by the Health and Human Services department in 2007 found that abstinence only teachings had “no impacts on rates of sexual abstinence” [4]. Many other factors, including participation in high risk activities and age of first intercourse, were almost identical as well between the experimental and control groups [4]. The University of Washington report found teens who received a comprehensive sex education were “sixty percent less likely to get pregnant or get someone pregnant” than those who didn’t [5]. The lead author of University of Washington report concluded that abstinence only education has no impact on teen sexual activity or pregnancy rates [5]. Multiple scientific studies have been conducted and nearly all of them have found that abstinence only teachings are woefully ineffective and possibly counterproductive. And yet many advocacy groups continue to push abstinence based teachings, framing their arguments around preserving family values and the nuclear family. There are also the thinly veiled religious overtones in many of the advocacy groups I have found that support abstinence only based programs. The prefrontal cortex is not fully developed until the mid-20s, while the limbic system is fully functional during adolescence. While initially this fact may seem like it is out of place, it is a central point to my argument and explains why adolescents in particular are more likely to engage in risky sexual behaviors. The prefrontal cortex is part of the frontal lobe; it is actually the very front of our brain and lies directly behind the forehead. This is the part of the brain involved in weighing outcomes, forming judgments, and controlling impulses and emotions [7]. It is also the very last part of the brain to fully develop, and usually stops developing during the mid-20s. The limbic system, the system responsible for emotional connections to other parts of the brain, is hardwired to register pleasure and pain in regards to high risk activities. It is fully developed in the early adolescent years [6]. The fully developed and functioning limbic system combined with an undeveloped or underdeveloped prefrontal cortex leads to pleasure and thrill seeking activities with little grasp on possible consequences. This combination is troublesome enough on its own, but becomes even more problematic when drugs, alcohol, and sexuality are added to the equation. When confronted with the choice of having sexual intercourse, one of the most biologically pleasurable acts known to man, and waiting years until marriage, sex will invariably win out in all but the strongest willed or most rational teens. Even when they are aware of the risks, teens will frequently choose the act that is pleasurable now as opposed to worrying about the vague consequences of STDs and pregnancy, neither of which are guaranteed and both of which are dealt with in the future [6][7]. The conclusion drawn from this is that no matter what we do or say, teens will have sex before marriage. It’s inevitable, and we have a duty to make sure that they practice safe sex. To sum it up In conclusion, comprehensive sex education is the only reasonable course of action if we want to prevent and reduce teen pregnancy and the spread of STDs. I will concede that abstinence is the best way to truly prevent teen pregnancy and the spread of STDs. Condoms and other contraceptives do fail, and nothing can be guaranteed to work correctly 100% of the time. But while abstinence is the best option, it is almost completely unfeasible. We live in a highly sexualized society where there is constant social and cultural pressure on teens to have sex, and often. Don’t believe me? Then you’ve been living under a rock. I don’t want to be harsh, but this is a serious problem: very few things are as dangerous as a lack of knowledge. HIV is one the most destructive and insidious diseases known to man; it spreads rapidly, mutates at a freakish rate, and is virtually impossible to cure. The best way to never become infected with HIV is to never have sex, ever. But sex is a powerful biological drive, even if you don’t ever want to have children. The best way to reasonably prevent the spread of HIV is with condoms. While they are not 100% effective (nothing ever is), something that works 95% percent of the time is infinitely better than a straight gamble. Pregnancy is the same way; would you rather flip a coin or be 95% confident in your decision? Comprehensive sex education is the most reasonable option. Abstinence does not work for the majority of American adolescents. Sources http://www.unicef-irc.org... http://www.livescience.com... http://www.siecus.org... http://www.mathematica-mpr.com... http://www.washingtonpost.com... http://suite101.com... http://science.howstuffworks.com...	PRO	649
649	Sc2f75af9-A3169e7e0	The Electoral College should be abolished in favor of the popular vote/run-off system	"Alright, in this final round, I'll clear up any remaining areas of clash in the debate. =""Argument from dismissal""= My opponent complains that many of my attacks on his arguments regarded the lack of impacts coming off of his arguments. First, recognize that I did in fact attack his arguments, refer to my round two. Irionically, it is he who ""dismissed"" the majority of my attacks. But second and more importantly, the charge of his arguments having no impact is justified. Indeed, his arguments are all a mere sentence long, and he doesn't explain to you why they actually matter. Imagine if I just typed ""the EC gives small states a larger voice"" (fact) without explaining why that's important...that is the nature of his arguments. This is a critical issue: if the debater advocating a change in the status quo doesn't have an impact behind his arguments than he loses by default. It is not an ""argument from tradition"" fallacy as he posits, but rather the acknowledgement that theres no reason to change the status quo if there are no reasons to do so...that's obvious, not to mention the fact that he, as Pro, has the burden of proof in this round. =Affirmative case= Pro completely misunderstands my main response to his case, which is that, given the federal nature of the United States, the president, and the entire Federal government, is a partner with the individual states to enact policy. The president resides over the people only in the sense that the Federal government resides (partially) over the states, so the States should be the ones to choose the president, not the people. Moreover, the electoral college is the best way to ensure that the interests of most states, even small ones, are represented as opposed to the interests of the big cities that will be favored under DPV (he drops both thisa rgument, and the card explaining it). My opponents response is non sensical. He says that the democrats/republicans who live in a ""solid"" state may as well not vote. That's a dumb response, not to mention that it missed the point entirely. The votes for the candidate in the state that lost were cast in an effort to win, just as the votes for the losing candidate nationwide were cast in an effort to win. He completely drops my turn about how swing states are good. Extend that. Most of his arguments are either unsound or nonsensical. For example, look at his ""equality"" argument--for one thing even if you buy into this argument, it doesn't provide a compelling enough reason to change the status quo since the scenario of a popular/electoral vote diverge is, historically, 4% and much less when you discount the 33% of those diverges caused by election fraud (election of 1877, the black vote was supressed). Moreover, he doesn't explain what the difference is between counting votes at a state level is vs national other than it's ""unequal""...this is untrue because, again, the difference is just symbolic. He's correct in that it's somtimes the voters in a particular state that end up deciding the president, but since no one can forsee this until the votes begin to get counted and the states declared, their votes are not inherently worth more than anyone else's. It's just the way the dice roll that makes theirs critical. He misunderstands my response to his ""tie"" argument. Nonwithstanding the fact that it's never happened and electoral math makes it extremely unlikely to happen, he doesn't explain why it's bad to have the house, the REPRESENTATIVES OF THE PEOPLE, to elect the president. It's true that the odds of a popular vote tie are astronomically less likely than an electoral tie; I was not attempting to compare them. Rather, I was showing that it's ridiculous for my opponent to advocate this argument without understanding that the likelihood of it happening is incredibly slight. He also rudely asserts that I dont understand the EC because apparently I didnt know that the house elects the president if no one reaches 270 electoral votes. Actually, I did know that, I have debated this topic formally at least 10 times after all, but it doesnt matter--he still hasn't explained why the house electing the president is a bad thing, other than ""the people should elect the president"". He just asserts this, while entirely dismissing my argument (not assertion) that the states should elect the president...ok. His argument about the ""main candidates"" is more ranting about the two party system than it is an argument against the EC. Not only did he drop my turn that the major parties will modify their platforms to attract those potentially critical fringe voters (while remaining over all moderate), but he didn't explain why his system dismantles the two party system we currently have in place. The fact is, in a runoff only the two parties with the most votes go to the second round. The two party system would remain, except without the benefit of having the best parts of the fringe ideologies absorbed into their platforms. He doesn't seem to understand that the EC gives small states a boost in their ""say"" when it comes to electing the president. He argues that the house (where seats are given by population, lol) and the senate will protect small states, but not only has he not explained how, he doesn't understand that the president is the entity that approves or rejects bills from the house and senate, so obviously we want the small states to have a say in electing him to keep them from being ""bullied"" by the larger states and their interests. My opponents arguments are fallacious and he's dropped or failed to refute literally all of my attacks on them. He's failed to meet his BOP, so he loses by default. =My case= My opponent dropped much of it (including all of the sources) in his second round, and dropped almost all of my responses to his attacks in his 3rd round. Still, I will respond to the few attacks he still tried to bring onto my case. 1. Moderation Barely attacked in round two, and his responses are all refuted, and he ignores it in round three. So, dropped and therefore conceded. Dropped the CATO card showing the negative effects of implementing DPV. His only response is to assume that a candidate hypothetically won 51% of the vote in the (highly polarized) large states, and 0% in the rest in his attempt to disprove me. Obviously, this isn't something even remotely likely to happen. He drops my turn regarding the 1992 elections. 2. Focus Drops the Heritage card and the group polarization effect. He drops the rest of it in round three. Extend. 3. States He says: "" There's no need to elect the national leader state-by-state"" but time and time again, he's either ignored or misunderstood the fact that since the president works with the states, he should be chosen by the states. Since his only response makes no sense, I'll just extend this. Vote Con. =Voting= I don't usually make a voting guide, but it's warranted in this scenario. For the reasons elaborated above, I've clearly won the arguments points. My opponent exhibited absolutely horrendous conduct, poor formatting (S & G point), and a complete lack of sources, while dropping all of mine. It would seriouly not be a votebomb to vote 7-0 in favor of neg in this debate."	CON	650
650	S3b05a433-Ae7aa8c56	Physical Education should be taught differently than it currently is.	My opponent has made various arguents against me, but they can be boiled down into several catigories 1. Health Logs required exersice nutrition are a violation on students' rights because they have a right to choose to be unhealthy if they desire to be so or if health is a low factor on their priority list. 2. My health logs have not been tested and cannot be tested because we don't know if they will work 3. Health is sufficent in its state, there is no need to improve health when there are greater, more important issues to wory about, such as the economy and the enviorment 4. I am being discriminatory to other body types by requiring them to eat nutritious foods and exersise. People may be content with being unhealthy. A larger body automatically means you are less heathy; healthy weight is the same for every body type. 5. Requiring student's to eat various healthy foods in a balanced diet is socialist because they cannot eat excessive junk food. 6. The stress due to required improvement in health will cause students to do worse in school 7. Fitness Logs are made to look buff and sexy, not to be healthy and fit; it is based to improve the opinions of others. 1. The school system ideally is a system to educate students in improving their lifestyles and conditions. It is a key to becoming happier, healthier, etc. Physical Health is a nessisary part of a happy lifestyle. If my opponent denies this I hope he can argue that Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD), a disease, resulting from a lack of cardio exercise, a disease that eats up the lungs, and a disease that causes intense pain until one may eventually die from it, can be ignored and one can have it while acheiving maximum fullfillment and happiness in this world. COPD is only one example of the literally hundreds or thousands of diseases resulting from a lack of nutrition and exercise. Not exercising is very similar to slacking off in education in the sense that you may not feel the effects now, but is devistating later in life. Although the exersice may be required, the student will not be thrown in prison or fined if they do not follow the logs. They may have a lower GPA, but that's what happens when you slack off in any class at school. You may get tough love from teachers and parents encouraging you to do your best, but that's also what happens when you are getting a 'C' in Algebra. You will not be forced, but you will be strongly encouraged. Although the student may not wish to exercise or do his Algebra homework, it is what is best for them and it will pay off in the end. 2. American Democracy was an untested experiment when the founding fathers invented it. However, they did not think 'this has never been completely tested, so we'll keep a Monarchy, since that has been tested and seems to work out fairly well.' They set their ideals into action, and they worked. They called on other political experements to support their theory which turned into a total success. While my theory has not been completly tested, I have drawn on sources that have worked in the past that strongly support my idea. It may very well work 3. This is a priority issue: my opponent considers health less important government function as the enviorment and economics, while I consider equally important. However, this experiment holds very little cost, very little sacrifice for the current school system, and results in drastic improvement In fact, my idea may give natrual, inexpensive 'health care' for all Americans, causing the US to spend far less in time and money health care and far more in issues such as the enviorment and the economy. 4. My health logs are created to improve the full health potential of the individual student. They require daily exercise and nutrition. They do not require weight to be at a certain level or muscles to be so big. Instead, they require the student to actively improve his or her health. This will result in gaining the maximum health potential the student has. As previously stated, while individuals may be satisfied with mediocure health, they will undoubltedly regret their decisions in the long run. A larger body type does not automatically mean an unhealthy body type. It actually could mean a more healthy person depending on the body type of the individual. The mesmorph body type may have a large fraim when it is in healthy condition. A healthy weight varries from person to person and body type to body type. People may have different health potentials, but each person has the potential to reach his or her maximum health potential, which is the goal of fitness logs. 5. Companies may very well compete in making more healthy foods due to this plan, as previously stated. There will still be competition, just slightly different. Furthermore, junk food will not be required to be eliminated, just reduced. Students will not be fined or imprisoned for not following health logs, they will simply have a lower GPA similar to that of slacking off on Algebra homework. Furthermore, I anticipate cheating, so there will be some things that will 'slide' here and there. I never claimed the logs would be a perfect fix, but would improve or drastically improve national health. 6. As already proven in a previous round, physical exersice often improves grades of those that take advantage of it. There will be more homework, but it will not be any different than giving out Algebra or World History Homework. Furthermore, endorphines, a chemical released while exercising, increase the ability to relax. Exersice, in the long run, increases relaxation as opposed to incresing stress. 7. The fitness logs have nothing to do with being buff or sexy. They have to do with improving the individual's maximum potential for fitness and health.	PRO	651
651	Seb991d36-A364b84ec	National testing will allow the state to locate and fund under-performing schools, ensuring all school children are given a good education	National testing provides a set of test results which can be used to compare schools in different parts of the country. The government can use the data to find the weakest schools, with the worst-performing students, and ensure that they receive the support needed to improve their test scores. As Steve Peha notes, though it was often accepted in the United States that certain students were at a disadvantage, it took the introduction of national testing to find the problem and come up with solutions1. M. Hall Stanton Elementary, a grade school in Philadelphia, had just 12% of fifth-graders reading at grade in 2002; by 2006, this number was 70%, thanks to government support and a Principal who is a big fan of testing (Wallis & Steptoe, 2007). Without national testing, the state may remain unaware of problems, like M. Hall Elementary, which may be easily fixed. If all students are to get a high-quality education, national testing is needed to highlight the worst schools and ensure students are not disadvantaged by their location. 1 Peha, S. (2011, July 5). Dispiriting numbers on Education, Civil Rights. Retrieved July 12, 2011, from National Journal:  2 Wallis, C., & Steptoe, S. (2007, May 24). How to fix No Child Left Behind. Retrieved July 8, 2011, from Time improve this  	PRO	652
652	S7064c844-Ade89bac6	DDD's 30th debate: Physical Education SHOULD be a requirement in schools	"(INTRODUCTION) Thank you for posting another argument. Now it is time to post a rebuttal. (REBUTTALS) “Physical Education classes are ineffective” I noticed a couple problems with your argument. First of all, by saying that PE classes are too short therefore ineffective is your first problem. A gym class CAN be short yet effective. Your statement has a logical fallacy known as Non-Sequitur which is Latin for “Doesn't follow” {1} Your argument is like saying that all thumbs are fingers therefore all fingers are thumbs. You can have a short gym class yet still burn calories and fat. Here, think of it this way. The average weight of a 12-year-old boy is around 90 lbs and for a girl it is 93 lbs {2}.Three average girls and Three average boys play a game of basketball for 16 minutes. The boys would burn around 92 calories while the girls would burn 95 calories {3}. Because everyone is different amount of calories could be lower or higher, however considering the obesity epidemic that has plagued world I would go with higher. The amount of time physical education done does not make it more or less effective. Second problem is that you have built yourself a strawman. By cherry picking your statistics you have built up a strawman. I will now give examples from several nations and regions. British Columbia, Canada: ”In British Columbia, Canada the government has stated in the grade one curriculum that students must participate in physical activity daily five times a week. Also the teacher is responsible for planning Daily Physical Activity (DPA) which is thirty minutes of mild to moderate physical activity a day not including curriculum physical education classes.”{4} The European Union:”European Union countries 109 minutes (range of 30-240 minutes) with clusters around 60 and 90 minutes in primary/basic schools and 101 minutes (range 45-240 minutes) with a cluster around 90 minutes in secondary and high schools”{5} Malaysia: “Pupils from primary schools to secondary schools are expected to do 2 periods or 1 hour of PE throughout the year except a week before examination.”{4} Latin America:”Central and South America (including Caribbean countries) 73 minutes in primary schools and 87 minutes in secondary schools. There is a gradual ‘tailing off’ in upper secondary (high) schools (post 16+ years) in several countries and optional courses become more evident”{5} There you go. Finally, You said that your argument negates the resolution. How? I have already proved that PE classes can be short and effective. Since I have shown that PE classes are actually effective this argument to not actually negate the resolution. “Schools have limited budgets” Again, I have a few things that upset me with this argument. You said that the educational part of school should be a higher priority than anything else. However, the well-being a of a child's bodily health is also important, like stated before, not all kids can get PE outside of school. If a school does not have enough money to keep their students healthy then they should not be a school at all. You also are going back to your previous argument to back this one up, however, I proved that you argument does not work.only some Gym classes are ineffective so why cut them out if they are important and work? A PE class can also just be one soccer ball. A simple, not special soccer ball can cost up to 20 dollars only. Gym classes do not need to have the very best and fanciest sports gear for playing, just something that will get the job done.{6} “The main alternative I will look into is educational programs to promote practices associated with healthy living such as nutritional diet and regular exercise.” Is this not what mandatory gym enforces? “regular exercise”? Also, if I may give a personal story, in my gym classes, there are tasty tuesdays, and you are recommended to make a healthy nutritious meal. “The saying ""Give a man a fish and you feed him for a day; teach a man to fish and you feed him for a lifetime,"" applies to this very well-- it is much more beneficial to teach students the value of actively pursuing good health (teaching them how to fish) than it is to force them to exercise for 16 minutes a day (giving them fish).” But wouldn’t both be best? In gym, you first of all get that 16 minutes a day, and secondly, if you remember a few of my points, I clearly showed you how gym actually increases long term and extra-curricular physical activity! So thus mandatory gym gives BOTH! Also, the 16 minute stuff has also been debunked. Secondly, that is what PE does, PE literally is the action teaching kids about Physical education and the importance of it, so essentially, you have just argued for us. “Not only is the presented alternative more useful in that sense, but it is also less costly, mostly because it can be carried out in a traditional classroom setting (as opposed to the new gymnasium that would have to be built to host PE classes). Such a program is clearly preferable to PE classes, and, as such, PE classes should *not* be made mandatory.” I love how you gave examples of the specific program you are talking about. *cough* You have just said the word program and then assumed that we know what exactly you are talking about. Also, even if this cost thing is true, do remember that I pointed out that a gym class can be 20 or less dollars with just a soccer ball! {6} Finally, how does your argument negate the resolution? You did not say how it negates resolution and just saying it does negate the resolution is not enough. (CONCLUSION) I thank Uchicha for this debate, Also I thank him for not forfeiting. It is nice to actually debate instead of waiting for 3 days for someone to forfeit."	PRO	653
653	Saf208634-A7616a29	This house would abolish the Electoral College	I accept.	CON	654
654	Saf208634-A5ef2bfa8	This house would abolish the Electoral College	Abolition would be costly Abolishing the EC requires a constitutional amendment. Amending the American constitution is difficult. [1] Such an undertaking requires the consent of two thirds of both houses of Congress or a convention upon the application of the legislatures of two thirds of the states. After that, such an amendment isn’t effective until it’s ratified by the legislatures of three fourths of the states or by conventions in three fourths thereof. [2] The EC is a politically contentious issue. The last time Congress seriously debated abolishing the EC, the proposed amendment was filibustered in the senate. [3] An amendment to abolish the EC would not pass easily through Congress nor state legislatures. Much debate and political wrangling would occur, and while our lawmakers would be focused on abolition, other matters would be left unattended. Legislative time is not free. It is a valuable resource which requires a compelling justification to allocate. 2. The EC maintains federalism The United States is not a direct democracy. The United States is a federal constitutional republic. There are good reasons for this. Our nation is large and culturally diverse. Local control through state governments and power sharing through equal voting in the senate helps keep the smaller states safe from an overbearing centralized government. Abolishing the EC goes against of our federal system and would be detrimental to the interests of the smaller states. 3. There is risk associated with abolition Whether we like it or not, the EC is the method of election with which we are familiar and has worked in our country for hundreds of years. Abolishing the EC would significantly change our political system. We can foresee some of the consequences of abolition, but there may be adverse impacts which only present themselves upon the use of a new method of election. This is a risk which is difficult to measure and, without a compelling justification, we should stick to what we know has worked before. 1 - http://goo.gl... 2 - https://goo.gl... 3 - http://goo.gl...	CON	655
655	S3b05a433-Adf4cb4e8	Physical Education should be taught differently than it currently is.	"Physical education as a whole, is actually not required in some states. Colorado is a state where only 20% of schools have PE offered, and yet is the thinnest state in the entire country. While, Mississippi, being the fattest, has required PE in grades K-8. [1 and 2] Florida is also one of the happiest states in the country and also has absolutely no PE requirements. [3] Florida also only has an obese population of 23.5 percent and is a relatively thin state in the country compared to Mississippi having an obese population of 31.5 and then Colorado which has an obese population of 18. [2] There are several conclusions we can draw from these statistics: 1. The lack of PE education in Colorado drives students to be physically active on their own, instead of the boring, stressful and awkward gym environments provided at schools. 2. Strict PE requirements leave kids in gym classes that turn them off from the idea of being physically fit and healthy since they are quite strenuous, fatiguing and an overall annoyance to the students. This leads them to become fatter and fatter until they eventually form the fattest state in the country; Mississippi. 3. The lack of PE makes citizens happier! Not being required to take PE in schools and being physically fit on your very own way that may be incredibly easier than the schools way lifts mountains of stress off of people and leaves them inspired on their own to be fit. There is no exact violation to student rights in the assigning of homework, but there are detrimental psychological affects to homework. People all need what psychologists call ""consolidation"" which is the time away from work when new things are learned when the brain processes new information and gets a good grasp over it. If students have a daily 30 minute required exercise margin along with their hour or so of homework, all piled on top of any extracurricular activities they may be enrolled in, it leave them little to no consolidation time for their brain to process the new information and understand it. The fact that now even MORE homework would be piled onto kids would lead to less understanding and comprehension in newly learned topics, lower test scores, lower general grades, and may not even sufficiently provide for the health of the students. There are NO gains at all in mandating at-home physical activity along with the daily classes provided in schools. My opponent presents statistics along with the conclusion that the PE system is currently failing. This is not true. If it were completely failing as he states, then we would have no fit people at all. Obviously it is still teaching between 69 and 75% of the population to be physically fit and does still have a generally good success rate. A 75% in school terms is a C, or average, which really isn't all that bad. Except my statistics show that increasing the mandates on PE discourages students from being fit and leaves a much lower success rate while leaving them to do it on their own and with much less force yields higher results in overall fitness. When my opponent states that teaching them health exclusively is not affective, my statistics prove otherwise and this is simply not the case. Secondly, a requirement to be fit and healthy as my opponent proposes would actually be a form of body size discrimination and is completely unjust. Why can't a person be extremely thin and have very few muscles and be incapable of continued exercise? Why is it wrong for a person to have received a gene that gives them a low metabolism and so makes them incapable of losing weight easily? It is a person's one choice (for the most part) at what their goal is for their bodily appearance. Having an imposed standard would be discrimination and would be morally wrong. What is wrong with being ""too thin"" or ""too fat""? It is that persons own body and they have their right to it. My opponents proposition still fails to conform to the rights and individual choices of a person while still proving to be an ineffective form of PE. It will also fail to conform to people's bodily decisions and preferences until there is an option for no exercise like we have in our current system. A Diet log also faces the same critical flaws, except in a higher degree. Socialism is any of various economic and political theories advocating collective or governmental ownership and administration of the means of production and distribution of goods. [4] This diet plan would have to be imposed throughout the country and would involve laws and therefore would be political, and so this proposed ""diet plan"" is actually socialism. Certain diets only work for small amounts of certain people and there is absolutely no good way of finding a diet for a certain student. They may want something, but the diet does something else. None of the diets may be effective, leaving them hopelessly failing PE. This is riddled with failure and people find many more failure stories in dieting than success stories. There could be no standards to this at all as every plan would be distinctly different and yield completely different results and therefore could not be graded either. Besides, what happened to the individual right to choose which type of salad you want to eat?!?! Exercise is beneficial, but only in certain ways and to certain people. There can not be a mandated plan for exercise because it will result in failures for some people and make many people extremely upset. It will also frustrate them and leave them less time for academics and result in lower test scores and overly stressed students. The fact is too, the people who are allowed to individually exercise yield much better results and are much happier persons than those who are forced into a laboriously slave-like gym class all for the sake of fitness, which causes a lack of morale in health because it shows an extremely strenuous side of it, and also yields much less success and happiness than individual fitness. Health rests within the individual, and it cannot be standardized because it simply won't work. 1. http://www.drwoolard.com... 2. http://calorielab.com... 3. http://www.psychologytoday.com... 4. http://www.merriam-webster.com..."	CON	656
656	Sb1603109-A27d32816	"Supporting Ron Paul is a fad and considered ""cool"" by college students."	"""I agree with you, many people stop caring about an election after it ends, but they shouldn't stop caring aout the candidate(s) they support. It is a fad, in that the majority of people supporting Ron Paul now with enthusiasm will cease to do so after he loses, and he will lose."" No, because there is already a draft movements to have Ron Paul run as a libertarian party candidate or an independent. So it doesn't look like people will quit caring after the primaries. I can't say that I have a feeling that he will win, but I think he will do a lot better then people will give him credit for. ""I don't think the ""love"" argument could be made for other politicians because values and strength have always been desireable attributes of a president. Love, traditionally has not been. Althought I think it should be, I think the Ron Paul people are using it as a gimmick, playing on the love and hippie trend that has become popular as of late."" Loving Ron Paul is a gimmick? How is it any more of a gimmick then ""Vote for this guy because he has values?"" Values is just a buzz word to get Christians excited. Last time I checked, not to many Ron Paul supporters were hippies, although some are. ""I think that issues ""you feel"" are important."" No, when Mitt Romney says he wants to make strong families, that is a feeling issue because there is no way for the government to force you to be a closer family. But people have strong emotions about families and morality, so to be pro-family sounds good, but when you prod it, it says nothing. Are you pro-family? It's like saying, ""Do you support the troops?"" or ""Do you support the people of Iowa?"" Well, I don't know anyone from Iowa, but these whole campaigns are ran basically on mindless slogans like that. Letting currencies backed by gold compete against federal reserve notes doesn't really pander to any sort of emotions equivalent to family or morality. There are important issues about fiat currency and central banking that go back to the beginning of the country. ""I have listened to Ron Paul and his ideas and I think they stray from Libertarian values on top of at times being non-sensicle. I'm not a Libertarian and neither is he, but almost everyone who supports him is. I think a lot of new Libertarians don't understand what it means to have libertarian ideals and mistake them for Republican ideals."" True, there is some debates among libertarians (mainly those from the Cato Institue and the Ludwig Von Mises Institue) about Ron Paul, but to suggest that he isn't libertarian at all is a stretch. If you go to votematch.com they have all the candidates ranking in a politcal square spectrum and Ron Paul is the only one who falls in the libertarian category. He was the libertarian party candidate in 1988. Here are just some of his libertarian ideals: Ending the war on drugs, non-interventionist foreign policy, cutting taxes and replacing them with nothing, cutting spending, getting the federal government out of schools, for gun rights, against national health care, against corporate welfare, for gold-backed money. The only issues you might be able to make a case that he is not libertarian is abortion and free trade (sort of). He is the favorite candidate of Reason Magazine, the nations largest libertarian magazine. You either don't know what libertarian means or you are thinking of someone else besides Ron Paul. ""Although I've never been to a Ron Paul rally, I find the people most passionate about talking about Ron paul are college age kids."" Maybe you should go to one. I bet you would have a good time. Second, he is also the most popular with active military personel. The fact that kids are passionate about it seems to suggest that it is more then a fad. People don't get attached to fads, which is what makes them come and go. If Ron Paul were a fad, my friends who don't normally care for politics put support Ron Paul wouldn't be donating time and money to help his cause. ""He is radical and that may play a factor, I don't know."" And? There are lots of other ""radical"" candidates running, but none of them have support like Ron Paul. If it was radical that mattered, why not support Dennis Kucinich? I think it is because Ron Paul taps into something those other candidates don't have. ""I just think that Ron paul supporters spend their time talking about what they think they know about his campaign, and spend for too little time researching the constitution for example which they seem to mention a lot of. Or any other candidates."" I'm not a constitutional scholar, but you don't have to be one to know Ron Paul quotes the constitution more than any other candidate. I have two copies, one of them I got for free at a Ron Paul rally. I think Ron Paul supports spend as much as time researching other candidates as do supporters of any other candidate. Besides, the most ""fad"" presidential candidate, hands-down, is Barack Obama. He was talked about as a candidate for President before he was even elected to the U.S. Senate. He doesn't have much of a record to examine--which has played to his advantage--and but college students like him because of his youth and charisma. I don't think Ron Paul supporters are drawn to him because of his looks. Most of my democratic friends like Obama, but to get an answer of substance of why they like him is hard to do. Obama supporters just put something on facebook saying they support him; Ron Paul supporters do the same, but also put their money where their mouth is and volunteer through sites like meetup.com"	CON	657
657	Sd5ad7f78-A6bfe3e1d	John jay College is the best school ever.	Since you mentioned degree audit. This is yet another tool that allows students to plan their academic success on the computer. They are able to see their whole academic path necessary to graduate. John Jay indefinitely cares about its students, therefore it is the best school. If you want to succeed, you should study at John Jay.	PRO	658
658	Sd5ad7f78-A97078a45	John jay College is the best school ever.	"Well the academic advisement office has their own website on which students are encouraged to go on. They have a system that allows students to make appointments with advisers from the comfort of their home without necessarily waiting in line. And for those without appointments, they offer a ""walk-in"" day. Therefore John Jay does its best in advising all students."	PRO	659
659	S1db3eaf8-A42ca0db3	university education should be free	The state benefits from the skills of a university educated populace	PRO	660
660	S1db3eaf8-A35d5f96	university education should be free	Individuals have a right to equal opportunities that free university provides.	PRO	661
661	S1db3eaf8-Aa80a84c	university education should be free	State control of acceptance/curriculum criteria has negative effects	CON	662
662	S1db3eaf8-A89191b8a	university education should be free	The burden of fees and loans are too great to expect young people to shoulder	PRO	663
663	Sb552379f-A7e8e58c5	U.S. schools should teach comprehensive, sex-positive sex education instead of abstinence (Part 2)	In this debate, I will be arguing for comprehensive, sex-positive education. First round is for acceptance only, and with Con's agreement, will continue directly from the first round of the previous debate on a similar topic. The Burden of Proof lies with both sides; each debater needs to cite their sources in order for a point to be considered valid. I was disappointed with the previous debate on a similar topic due to a lack of participation on pro's part. I was doubly disappointed because of the great potential the topic had. I hope to rectify that and provide the attention that this topic deserves. I look forward to a challenging debate with a worthy opponent. Link to original debate: http://www.debate.org...	PRO	664
664	Se45fb8ba-A733dc58d	Is Indian Education System Is Justified	I am not sure what to say in this round other than a plead for you to answer in the next round.	PRO	665
665	Se45fb8ba-A78288514	Is Indian Education System Is Justified	I am starting to have a feeling that my partner is no longer participating on this website.	PRO	666
666	Sa513ba08-A538420d7	Exams Ought to be Abolished from the Education System	"Thank you for outlining your case, I too look forward to a great debate. I can understand why you feel that exams should be abolished (removed) and replaced with coursework, let's face it they are no fun unless you are doing multiple choice exams where you know you have plenty of time and there is a chance of being lucky. For exams to be abolished, exams must: a) benefit nobody. b) be a better alternative. This is what I believe anyway. Lets examine your points and enlarge your arguments R1 ""Exams Exasperate Mental Health Issues"" Here you are saying that exams cause stress and other problems, when actually it is people's attitude towards them. Should exams be abolished simply because people don't know how to deal with them? I think that handling stress is an important life lesson, it's a shame that teachers and parents don't help pupils enough, more can be done. Grading is what causes the stress pupils experience but only when pupils think the grades are not for their own benefit, and mistakenly think that their teachers are keeping a record of their grades in a closet. Exams should not be confused with tests. An exam is a formal test of knowledge and ability whereas a test is a short examination which cannot change your life or anything unlike an exam where your grades can allow you to study in the university of your choice, and get a higher salary. No-one worries about tests. However they do worry about exams. At what point do pupils begin to worry? Considering many leave their revision to the last couple of weeks I'd say that major exams like SAT's and G.C.S.E.s which are compulsory (and thus most stressful) do not cause mental health problems. R2 ""Exams Do Not Actually Show Intelligence"" I agree that exams are largely a memory test, the education system should be changed, but you'd have to be extremely lucky to only get the questions you want if you haven't learnt very much, therefore a students success rests on learning questions they might not get in an exam. Every topic is important because it is equally likely to show up (unless given hints by teachers who have seen previous papers). Let's suppose a student learns a whole new branch of maths which hasn't been taught in his lessons, this is unlikely by the way, and as a result he receives a poor grade, this grade reflects his attitude. Employers often need to employ people who listen, and do what they are told, and are willing to do things that are dull and repetitive because they are essential. Good grades show a persons quality whether or not their knowledge of subjects is needed, and the simple things taught at school often are but some aren't. If you know your stuff you have nothing to worry about so won't panic. I've had a physics paper once and failed because none of it was taught, however I like the rest of my class were given a second paper about 6 months later. So problems like you mention can be easily fixed without having to abolish exams. R3 ""The Same Exam Could Have Different Marks"" People have the right to have test papers remarked if they do not believe they have received the grade they should, they will know this based on the grades of their homework. R4 ""Essays Are Much Better Tools of Evaluation"" This is your alternative to exams. While many skills are needed for assignments as you have kindly pointed out, it is easy for students to get help from friends and family, or their home computer, and so what they write down they may not understand. An exam is a much better way to test someone's understanding of a subject. The best way to remember something and students need to remember a lot! is to experience it, or use imagination to understand it. Learning by rote is not very effective, people who choose this method will usually get low grades. Provided students pay attention, make good notes, read revision guides etc, their skill will not be lacking in any way. R5 ""Cheating"" I have read your source, and the figures used show the number of people who cheat in tests, not exams. It is easy to cheat in a test because you are usually beside someone who is likely to be your friend and who will make it easier for you to cheat. In an exam you will have your own desk, be situated in a more random fashion, be asked to leave your bags and coasts behind, have a lot more people monitoring you to check you are not cheating etc. To sum up Exams do not need to be scrapped because a simple solution exists to solve any problems associated with them, in the case of stress, overcoming this is beneficial. If exams were abolished it would be less important to understand a subject, and employers would have a harder time to find the right candidates. So exams then should not be abolished. I look forward to your counter arguments, thanks"	CON	667
667	Sc7831446-A89191b8a	university education should be free	The burden of fees and loans are too great to expect young people to shoulder	PRO	668
668	Sc7831446-A42ca0db3	university education should be free	The state benefits from the skills of a university educated populace	PRO	669
669	Sc7831446-A35d5f96	university education should be free	Individuals have a right to equal opportunities that free university provides.	PRO	670
670	Sc7831446-Aa80a84c	university education should be free	State control of acceptance/curriculum criteria has negative effects	CON	671
671	S4692357-Ad23c25eb	The Banking Concept of Education is Oppressive	"""You bring up ""full of knowledge of his abilities and power Adolf Hitler continued his work"", ""men like Bundy and Manson walked the earth."""" To my knowledge two of those men were or believed in fascist viewpoints and the fact that they were superior. Hirsch states, ""shared information is a necessary background to true literacy"" and further states, ""literate culture is the most democratic culture in our land; it excludes no one; it cuts across generations and social groups and classes."" A true democracy requires a shared knowledge of information, it requires everyone to have the same basic ideas how else is a student suppose to learn of society and life if they question everything and refuse to have equal knowledge. A teacher being a superior and wiser human has to impart this knowledge for it to be passed on."	CON	672
672	S4692357-A1c34e4d3	The Banking Concept of Education is Oppressive	"As a student, your role is to be a container for knowledge. As a child ""lack of intergenerational information is a serious problem for the nation"". (Hirsch) To say a child in a poor country has a basic knowledge of the world is a bit ludicrous, to have a basic knowledge a student must be taught and receive information. An uninformed mind can be as dangerous to the world as an invading army. ""You say that ""being told you were wrong or couldn't do something put a strain on your abilities"""" how can you say that if at that point you were being taught something new, your questioning may have in fact impeded your ability to learn."	CON	673
673	S4692357-A26d717fe	The Banking Concept of Education is Oppressive	"You say, ""An uninformed min can be as dangerous to the world as an invading army."" Yet with full knowledge of his abilities and power Adolf Hitler continued his work. Men like Bundy and Manson walked the planet with the same basic knowledge that was fed to them. Becoming what they became and you are still worried of an ""uninformed mind""? You were right, I was being taught something new that day. Yet it was not the lesson taught, but to remember people (teachers/ instructors) will stand in your way, and tell you how life is. I just need to remember to look around them in order to get where I""m going. In being told I could not do something, I made a point to prove that I could."	PRO	674
674	S51e5652c-A79239119	Education nowadays should be mostly computerized	First thing that I saw that you gave references at the end of the post, I thought that the argument is going to be tough. But then I saw how the research that you posted mostly regard a marginal point which is not that valid to this discussion. However, I studied A-Level psychology so I can address that point. Google search, like any other information data storage, if it is computerized or not. Is beneficial. People use google for all kind of of uses, if it is for choosing what movie to see, how to reach a place or what to buy. Why would you want to store that information in the long term memory. Even if you are a programmer or do software/hardware related work, you need google to refer to documentations and manuals. Everything is stored in the short term memory, for long enough to have the task done. The only main thing that needs to be stored in your long term memory is language. And you practice it a lot regardless if you use a computer or not. Regardless of the debate, schools arent mostly about storing as much information as possible in the long term. You can test yourself. Take a pen and paper and write everything that you remember from secondary school. You would hardly reach 1% of the material in the syllabus that was taught. With computerized technology all your notes wont be lost, they will be in some server on some cloud, so you would be able to refer to them. You might also be able to drill the material after you finish school with the apps that you had on your ipad. 1. What?!?! you can reply the lecture again. Universities such as Stanford and MIT already exploit that way of learning. In the traditional way if you lost focus during the lecture, you are screwed, because you cant replay the session. 2.ha! I do remember learning about context dependent learning in psychology. The point is so weak. You can print the paper from its digital version if you wish, and it would give you the memory effect that you are after. Again that technology is already applied in universities, and it was applied at the university that I was at. 3. What do you mean it is not their right??!? all a student has to do, is reach the school, or classroom, and open the app and press on a button. The app would trace his location. The teacher can then open his app and confirm the attendance. I used apps like that when I was at work. It is just a better technology to track the student attending lessons and then create graphs, histograms and make other statistical representations which could be then presented to the school senior staff in a form of a power point presentation. 4. Virtual learning is being deployed on many sites today. Linda.com, Khan academy and Coursers. Entrepreneurs, learners and even professors believe in it, because they all participate in those programs. Apart from replaying all or any lessons again, you could prevent courses that were badly instructed by some teachers and receive community support from people all over the world. The only problem is that for you to be examined you need to be physically present. 5. Apps accelerate learning. There are many apps there that have got different drills and progress tracking features. If you learn networking, then there are many networking apps such as CCNA and Network+ apps with tests and quizzes. They dont do any harm, but assist you in learning. You could avoid using them anyway if you wish. 6. 7. It may only lower learning on specific classes such as classes that require lab work or special equipment. There is no need for you to spend money on a class that you could watch online. A school is like a business, it has to create a model that works. It needs to hire lecturers for a specific period of time and rent a place for them. All that increases your costs significantly. A degree from a top university costs around quarter of million dollars today. And it doesnt include the cost of accommodation and other fees. A degree can be much cheaper and consist a few thousands of students each semester, and not a few tens each semester. 8. Lol, since when do you get extra help at school? Do you mean an extra hour or two with the teacher? dont you think it would cost you more money? why not to have an online community that helps you for free and without attending some extra class in some place. I remember having paid for extra classes during the holiday in my school.. That was so expensive! I wish I just could go online, and search for definitions and learn maths from the internet. I can go and learn calculus right now, and learn it well.. with all the material that is there. The only issue that people have with that kind of learning is that they are afraid they wont have the discipline to do so.	PRO	675
675	S816da028-Af53127eb	Resolved: Direct popular vote should replace Electoral College	"My opponent has dropped all of my arguments last round. She diverged into her one point about voter rights and how an election works. This is enough information to vote con, as she dropped so much. I will refute her arguments yet again, and as these are NEW arguments last round I urge the conduct point. Rc1: Republic vs Democracy The only part we need to talk about is the elections, as this is what the resolution fully pertains too. The framers of the constitution actually rejected the NV! Why? Because they thought our republican form of government need not be controlled by the popular states in the elections. [1] In a republic elections are different then a democracy, as winner usually has the majority vote, but it is not required. The republic system is more fair (EC) as smaller states and minorities votes actually matter. In the NV system all that maters is the big states and the majority ethnicity. Rc2: Popular support ---> First this violates the bandwagon fallacy, again. ---> Second it doesn't matter as the small states would all reject the amendment to change the EC, therefore it would never be able be taken down as this will prevent a 3/4 majority. ---> Her argument lies on the argument people are being ignored. IF just IF we think the EC ignores people, then the NV is the EC on crack. The NV literally means ALL small states and ALL minorities are worthless. Why? Because the goal is to win the majority now, and you would rather win Texas then Wyoming. And minorities are now worthless as all you want is the majority vote, so everyone would be after the majority ethnic (currently white) vote. This is bad, as then large portions of the country are totally out of the picture. The complaint you are giving is people in NY individually are worth less then a redneck in Wyoming. If anything I approve of this, as it means the states now share power. If we had the NV NY would control a lot more, the states with the biggest population would be in control as everything revolves around population and votes from the majority now. The NV gives all the power to a few large states, while the small states get shoved into a corner. The EC still gives big states more power as a whole, but prevent them from controlling everything. If anything the EC makes it much more fair. Rc3: 2 parties ---> As I ave stated the EC prevents voter fraud through the 2 party encouragement and the extensive re-counts. If we had a NV thousands of candidates would be encouraged to run, and as there would be so many more chances to fraud the vote and would need to be re-counted as the vote would be so close as they split the vote tremendously. [2] (overexerted with the thousands part) But think about it, there is no right to run for president in law, so having a 2 party system is great, as it reduces fraud and it prevents recounts and no right is violated. There is actually no downside to having a 2 party system, as: 1. No right to run for president, so no rights are violated 2. it prevents fraud [3] 3. It prevents long recounts [3] Rc3: People are not being heard ---> I refuted this in Rc1. If people are not being heard now the NV is going to be the EC on crack as the NV totally ignores large sects of people as worthless, as the EC makes them worthwhile. In a pool of 100,000,000 voters, the minority of one million is now worthless. The EC makes them have a small say in the elections. The NV takes this say away. The EC is fair overall as NY still trumps me here in NM, but individually 1 on 1 we are slightly better, but as a whole they win. The majority is still being heard, but the EC makes us have a whisper too. The EC's discrimination you claim balances out. Dropped arguments from pro: Constitution Helps minorities, she focused on the band wagon fallacy this round adds cohesiveness She only refuted D3... Conclusion: As she has dropped 3/4 of my arguments this round, I urge a con vote. She assumes the BOP as she is asking for a change in the status quo and a change in the constitution herself, and she has not fulfilled her BOP, my smaller BOP has been filled by me. As in PF we debate on evidence, I decree I urge a con vote here as I provided more evidence. I have showed abolishing the EC is more detrimental then helpful, and that the EC's ""discrimination"" was balanced out in the long run. I have refuted her arguments and the resolution has been defeated. The EC gives minorities and small states a say in elections, a NV takes them away. And last but not least the EC adds to the cohesiveness of the country. It forces you to have a wide range of appeal, and not just win a few big states, like the NV would force. The EC forces you win the Midwest and a few a large states, so the people from the urban areas and the farmers support you. It actually forces a person who is running to have a plan that everyone approves of. As pro said in round one, I have affirmed hte old saying if it ain't broke fix it."	CON	676
676	S2ea51f9-Aa1fd3a	University education should be free	As requested by Con I will not post anything related to the debate in this round.	PRO	677
677	S2ea51f9-A59f38814	University education should be free	Apologies but due to unexpected time constriction, I am unable to write my argument. I would like to pass this round post my argument during the next round if that is fine with Con.	PRO	678
678	S2ea51f9-A4fec88a	University education should be free	PRO has skipped posting his arguments in round 1 and I guess alterations need to be made in the debate structure now. The rules fundamentally remain the same except that PRO loses one round for rebuttal. It will be evaluated as if he forfeited the round. Thank You.	CON	679
679	S2ea51f9-A577e2b13	University education should be free	Rules: 1. Bop will be shared 2. My opponent as PRO in this debate will start by giving giving his case immediately in R1 and to even out the rounds he shall pass the last Rounds: Round 1: PRO : Acceptance,Arguments Round 2: CON : Arguments, Rebuttals. PRO :Rebuttals & counter rebuttals Round 3: CON : counter rebuttals PRO : Shall pass this round. And I think think that about settles it. Any questions can be clarified through PM.I wish my adversary Good Luck!	CON	680
680	Sacbc3c8e-Adc49b296	Resolved: Information about contraceptives should be included in sex education classes.	"Your an idiot lets look to the just war theory and how were not justified but we would be in this case This debate is won by the Con because he upheld his criterion unlike the Pro he also linked his whole case to the V/C unlike the Pro....the pro was like a policy case or public forum case just random facts...we must negate the res. because Con destroyed his V/C... also HUGE POINTS WERE LEFT UNATTACKED>>>FOR EXAMPLE>>> .2 Right intention. 3. Proper authority and public declaration. A state may go to war only if the decision has been made by the appropriate states around the world. 5. Proportionality. Benevolent quarantine for prisoners of war. If enemy soldiers surrender and become captives, they cease being lethal threats to basic rights. They are no longer""engaged in harm."" Thus it is wrong to target them with death, starvation, rape, torture, medical experimentation, and so on. However we have seen that America has abused human rights of these prisoners of war in Guantanmo bay and Abu Grahib. The red cross reported that there are ongoing torture, sexual degradtion, forced drugging, extreme torture, sleep deprivation, religious persecution, and medical experimentation 2. Right intention. Iraq Ambassador James F. Jeffrey said that a ""Our only reason for occuping Iraq was to stop human rights abuses from occuring and to defend the innocent civilians""Also our Ambassador of Afganistan James B. Cunningham said that the only reason for occupying afganistan was to ""defend afgan citizens from getting the human rights abused"". Therefore we see that we have the right intention of solely stopping human rights. 3. Proper authority and public declaration. A state may go to war only if the decision has been made by the appropriate authorities. We have seen America authoritized by UN through resolution 688 in which they called for help to defend Kurdish people in Iraq to defend there human rights. Also with official act passed call Operation Provide Help. Another official international law is Responsibility to protect. In which those who can protect have an obligation. 4. Probability of Success. A state may not resort to war if it can foresee that doing so will have no measurable impact on the situation. We have seen great success in Iraq with human rights abuse. Ambassador James Jeffery said we were able to greatly reduce human rights abuse in 11 months the following years were for creating a stable government. 5. Proportionality. A state must, prior to initiating a war, weigh the universal goods expected to result from it, such as securing the just cause, against the universal evils expected to result, notably casualties. Human Rights is a universal good in which everyone is born with according to the UN declaration of human rights. Nothing is weighted more valuble and of greater inherent worth than human rights therefore it is proportional to intervene. Contention 2 Through the just war theory we learn that states that are abusing human rights become an enemy to the world. And our no longer a legitimate society. Immanuel Kant said that if he were to be abuse he ought to be coerced. Meaning since they have violated the social contract they ought to be stopped in the human rights abuses. John Locke refers where the government invades the rights of subjects, or where it fails to use its power to secure those rights. Locke implied that the Glorious Revolution of 1688, in which King James II was dethroned and replaced by William and Mary, was justified on these grounds. The U.N. was founded as a multilateral organization pledged to take action only when war crossed state boundaries. Internal affairs were left to each country individually. The armed humanitarians of the R2P school believe human-rights concerns outweigh state sovereignty, and force can - indeed must - be used to set things straight."	CON	681
681	Sadecd01c-A146143c5	The life of an adult has more intrinsic worth than that of a child.	Zz.	CON	682
682	Sadecd01c-A146143c5	The life of an adult has more intrinsic worth than that of a child.	Zz.	CON	683
683	Saf13dc4a-A7341e570	That a human life is intrinsically worth more than the life of an animal	"Thank you for the response. This is a very philosophical topic. I have to admit that my human and mammal age comparisons and previous arguments were not great. If all animals (including humans) are equal, can killing the child benefit the worms, horses, giraffes, etc.? No, it could only benefit Harambe. You mentioned that if the child were killed, it would be ""one less force for destruction"". You just proved a point why humans are superior. Since we are all contributing to destruction of the world, animals cannot do anything about it. In other word, they are helpless. We can keep polluting the water and can fish do anything about it? No, they can't. We can keep cutting down trees and start a massive wildfire. Can animals like snakes, bears, gorillas, etc. do anything about it? No, they can't. Can humans stop water pollution? Not totally but we have the power and intelligence to reduce it. Can humans stop deforestation and wildfire? Not totally but like stopping water pollution, we have the power and intelligence to reduce it. We start the destruction and we are the ones to finish it, not the animals. I can't describe all of this in one word but humans are able to experience anything. We have more emotions and capable of adapting in almost anything (like speaking languages, understanding each other) as well as create civilizations. Humans can define for themselves what is ""good"" and what is ""bad"". Again, I would describe this topic as philosophical. Very thought-provoking."	PRO	684
684	S1b21a2f2-A297fa03b	Free University Education	I accept.	PRO	685
685	Se0dd9576-A150e1ef2	are the constant phone tappings and violations of privacy worth it? (adressing the NSA and PRISM)	It was going so well...	PRO	686
686	Se0dd9576-A20f6c9bc	are the constant phone tappings and violations of privacy worth it? (adressing the NSA and PRISM)	Anytime now.	PRO	687
687	S7064c844-Acb4696d5	DDD's 30th debate: Physical Education SHOULD be a requirement in schools	"(INTRODUCTION) I would like to clarify that we mean GRADE SCHOOL! I am sorry for that miss, and I do hope you accept this definition. If not, please propose your own definition of the resolution, though remember there is NO ridiculos semantics. CONTENTION 1: OBESITY RATE IN CHILDREN Child obesity has been a problem around the world. What is obesity? “The condition of being grossly fat or overweight.” (taken from google, not sure where they get there definitions) Now how exactly is this bad for an obese person’s health? “Obese youth are more likely to have risk factors for cardiovascular disease, such as high cholesterol or high blood pressure. In a population-based sample of 5- to 17-year-olds, 70% of obese youth had at least one risk factor for cardiovascular disease.” {1} {2} “Obese adolescents are more likely to have prediabetes, a condition in which blood glucose levels indicate a high risk for development of diabetes. Children and adolescents who are obese are at greater risk for bone and joint problems, sleep apnea, and social and psychological problems such as stigmatization and poor self-esteem.” {1} {2} “Children and adolescents who are obese are likely to be obese as adults and are therefore more at risk for adult health problems such as heart disease, type 2 diabetes, stroke, several types of cancer, and osteoarthritis. One study showed that children who became obese as early as age 2 were more likely to be obese as adults. Overweight and obesity are associated with increased risk for many types of cancer, including cancer of the breast, colon, endometrium, esophagus, kidney, pancreas, gall bladder, thyroid, ovary, cervix, and prostate, as well as multiple myeloma and Hodgkin’s lymphoma."" {1} {2} Want to hear something shocking? Well, it turns out that out of all children, 20% (around) are obese. One in every five children are obese! {1} {2} So now that you know the health risks that obesity comes with, you now need to know how to combat it. With physical activity: “Healthy lifestyle habits, including healthy eating and physical activity”{1} {2} Obviously in gym you get physical activity, and if it is a requirement it will MAKE SURE that these obese children start getting healthier. If it was optional, most of these children would most likely not go to gym, and thus develop the obesity more. So now I ask anyone who is reading this, do you want ( I did the calculations based on the facts provided earlier) 14% of all children to have a major risk for cardiovascular disease? I don’t think so. To slowly lower this number, gym should be a requirement in all grade schools. CONTENTION 2: GYM HELPS YOU THINK In grade school academics, the goal is for you to get smarter, and learn. So what is an effective way to help your brain get working? Your first reaction is mostly ‘well you go to your classes and academic subjects’ but I have reason to believe your reaction could be ‘go to P.E.’ I will provide multiple studies showing why: “Look at the brain functioning after just 20 minutes of walking. Getting kids to move helps strengthen and stimulate their brains. This is why so many recent research studies are showing increased fitness = improved academics. Note: The blue color represents inactivity in the brain.” {3} To see the image go here (sorry my computer can’t post images so I have to give links to them): http://www.debate.org... From the same interesting website came this overwhelming evidence from a different study: They took 3 million children and compared the kids who had a higher fitness level to the corresponding academic level and kids who had a lower fitness level to the corresponding academic level and look what they found: http://www.debate.org... Shocking isn’t it? Here is some more studies: “The California Department of Education (CDE) looked for a correlation between fitness scores and test scores. They found that kids who were deemed fit (by a standard test of aerobic capacity, BMI, abdominal strength, trunk strength, upper body strength and overall flexibility) scored twice as well on academic tests as those that were unfit. In the second year of the study, socio-economic status was taken into account, to possibly eliminate that variable as an explanation. As expected, those in the upper-income brackets scored better overall on the academic tests, but within the lower-income set of students, the same results were observed — kids who were more fit performed better academically.” {4} Now, before I run out of space to finish this argument and argument 3, I would like to post one last study under this contention: “Charles Hillman, associate professor of kinesiology at the University of Illinois, was able to duplicate these findings with 259 third and fifth-grade Illinois students. His team also noticed that two of the tests, BMI and aerobic capacity, were significantly more influential to higher academic scores than the other four fitness factors. Digging deeper, he isolated two groups of 20 students, one fit and the other unfit. They were given cognitive tests of attention, working memory and processing speed while their brain's electrical activity was being measured by an electroencephalogram (EEG) test. The fit kids' brains showed more activity in the prefrontal cortex, known for its executive function and control” {4} So, just to clarify, if you make gym a REQUIREMENT then the test score of ALL the students will be very likely go up. But if it is optional or even non-existent, then obviously these kids who came to school would not be going to gym and thus not helping the brain enough. When they mean a correlation from fit kids to high academic scores, I want to point out that a major way for a kid to start getting fit starts with gym. Look at this: http://www.debate.org... Alright, on to the next point. CONTENTION 3: GYM REDUCES STRESS IN SCHOOL Stress sucks, it is nerve racking and just really is almost painful. Now let me show you just how much stress sucks. “Stress that continues without relief can lead to a condition called distress -- a negative stress reaction. Distress can lead to physical symptoms including headaches, upset stomach, elevated blood pressure, chest pain, and problems sleeping. Research suggests that stress also can bring on or worsen certain symptoms or diseases. Stress also becomes harmful when people use alcohol, tobacco, or drugs to try to relieve their stress. Unfortunately, instead of relieving the stress and returning the body to a relaxed state, these substances tend to keep the body in a stressed state and cause more problems. Consider the following: Forty-three percent of all adults suffer adverse health effects from stress. Seventy-five percent to 90% of all doctor's office visits are for stress-related ailments and complaints. Stress can play a part in problems such as headaches, high blood pressure, heart problems, diabetes, skin conditions, asthma, arthritis, depression, and anxiety. The Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) declared stress a hazard of the workplace. Stress costs American industry more than $300 billion annually. The lifetime prevalence of an emotional disorder is more than 50%, often due to chronic, untreated stress reactions.” {5} Let me break this down a bit. The facts provided are obvious reasons for why stress sucks Let me point out the Alcohol, Drugs, etc… makes it worse. Now, I know this sounds a bit abstract, but just how much do kids in grade school drink, use drugs, etc? “25% of youth aged 12 to 20 years drink alcohol” {6} So, wait, 1 IN 5 KIDS DRINK ALCOHOL? That is horrible! Ok so now how many kids take drugs or smoke? I am going to use marijuana as an example: “7.0 percent of 8th graders, 18.0 percent of 10th graders, and 22.7 percent of 12th graders used marijuana” {7} So a HIGH amount of kids drink and use drugs which, if you remember an earlier quote, make existing stress worse, then obviously we need to stop stress before it happens! Now what is an effective way to stop stress before normal kids and drinking and drug using kids get school/social stressed? GYM! “Physical education classes provide the opportunity to participate in sports, exercise and perform other activities that promote physical fitness. These activities release chemicals in your brain known as endorphins, which help produce feelings of calm and relaxation. A study done by the University of Georgia in 2008 showed that people who exercise just 20 minutes a day can decrease their fatigue by 65 percent. If you're feeling tired and stressed out, getting exercise will help refresh you.” {8} POINT. PROVEN. (CONCLUSION) Thank you, DDD (REFERENCES) {1} http://www.cdc.gov... {2} GO TO {1} AND GO TO REFERENCE 7, 5,6,10, 15, 12, 11, 14 {3} http://www.phitamerica.org... {4} http://www.livescience.com... {5} http://www.webmd.com... {6} http://www.cdc.gov... {7} http://www.drugabuse.gov... {8} http://classroom.synonym.com..."	PRO	688
688	S7064c844-A25ff5394	DDD's 30th debate: Physical Education SHOULD be a requirement in schools	(INTRODUCTION) Thanks for posting, even though it was short, I still appreciate it. (ARGUMENTS) (4) So previously I made arguments about physical and academic and stress benefits. This time I will be talking about the social benefits of gym. In gym you obviously play athletic sports, most of them being team sports such as dodgeball, volleyball, soccer, basketball, badminton, etc,etc… Now besides the obvious physical advantages, there is a giant social advantage within these team sports. They are called team sports because to win you ultimately need to work as a good team. Group work is a key that is hard to learn but has lots of benefits. In gym, whenever you do (as an example) soccer, you need to be able to work in a group by passing and not arguing when you don’t get the ball. Group work also rubs off during classes when you are asked to work in groups, but I won’t go too much into that. “Activities in PE help children develop healthful social interactions. From a young age, children learn cooperation through group activities and form a positive sense of identity as part of a team. Such group activities are continually important as children grow older. The International Platform on Sport and Development states that “sport has been used as a practical tool to engage young people in their communities through volunteering, resulting in higher levels of leadership, community engagement and altruism among young people.” Sportanddev.org also notes that positive character development through group physical activities depends on the program curriculum”- {1} Besides groupwork what is gym also socially good for? Sportsmanship! Now what is sportsmanship? “Sportsmanship (or sometimes sportspersonship) is an aspiration or ethos that a sport or activity will be enjoyed for its own sake, with proper consideration for fairness, ethics, respect, and a sense of fellowship with one's competitors.”- {3} I have searched for sportsmanship within schools and I have come up with many examples of how different schools have a whole sportsmanship aspect in their gym mark which is absolutely great! To conclude this particular point, I want to relate it back to the resolution and why gym should be mandatory for this particular social reason. If gym was optional, all the people who did not go to gym would not be a great social and group person, or kid. This also makes the job of teachers trying to get people to cooperate much easier. (5) A lot of arguments that I have made have discussed the short-term of P.E Classes, but what about the long term? “Linear time trend forecasts suggest that by 2030, 51% of the population will be obese. The model estimates a much lower obesity prevalence of 42% and severe obesity prevalence of 11%. If obesity were to remain at 2010 levels, the combined savings in medical expenditures over the next 2 decades would be $549.5 billion.”{2} I believe that is for the American population, so to contrast American obesity estimates, I will use American population estimates. The estimated number of Americans in 2030 is 363,584,435. {5} 51% of 363,584435 is 185,428,062. That is 182,428.062 MILLION OBESE PEOPLE IN THE USA ALONE! How can we prevent this? Simple. PE classes help encourage kids to not only stay active while in school, but to stay active for their whole lives and as a direct result these active adults may teach their kids to remain active, which means less overweight kids and less overweight adults. School’s purpose is to make kid’s long term better, so why should PE not do the same? (6) Unfortunately, some kids do not have the privilege of being able to exercise outside of school, a lot of these kids are poor and they have to work at home/work in a part-time job to help out with their family, no time to play soccer or baseball. “According to the 1998/99 National Population Health Survey, about 62% of persons with a household income of $20,000 or less were considered inactive. The same survey also showed that about 62% of persons without a high school education were considered inactive”{6} “Low-income families and their children face significant barriers to recreation. Many of the key barriers have existed for decades. A 1994 Canadian study found that recreation services have a variety of systemic barriers: socio-economic barriers – the cost of recreation is prohibitive organizational barriers – a lack of supportive policies, facilities and financial resources communications barriers – information about recreation resources and services doesn’t reach low-income families”{6} So what is a way to make sure they get active? Gym. What is a way to go to gym? School. In many many countries including the US, school is a requirement for children. {4} So if school is a requirement, then these poorer kids get to go to school. At school, they should get the exercise they need at school! That is why gym should be a requirement and should be encouraged in school, to make sure that these less fortunate kids get the exercise they need. (CONCLUSION) Thank you! DDD (REFERENCES) {1} http://www.livestrong.com... {2}http://www.ajpmonline.org... {3} http://en.wikipedia.org... {4} http://en.wikipedia.org... {5}http://www.city-data.com... {6}http://www.physicalactivitystrategy.ca...	PRO	689
689	Seb991d36-Ae65c8cf1	Using a national test to judge the quality of a school or of its teachers and students is wrong.	Using a national test to check if schools and their teachers are good enough, or if students are learning fast enough, is not right. It is unfair on students, and will lead to good teachers being forced out of their jobs, making problems worse. Teachers point out that they are being judged on results, but that results are affected by other things, like the size of classes and the background of the student. A better option is to look at everything the student has done, not simply one test. Instead of testing a student on just one day, an assessment should use teacher reports, teacher-created tests, and student presentations that take place over the entire school year. In other words, they should ask 'did the child's knowledge and skills grow at least one year's worth? That is the important question, not whether this third grade scores better than the previous year's third grade.'1This would especially benefit students who are not good test takers. Finland is one such example of a state that has no national testing, the government instead looks at an '8 to 10 per cent sample of pupil's work to check on performance'2. Finland is the same country which has consistently been ranked the world's best education system for almost all of the past decade2. 1 McClatchy. (2008, December 11). Commentary: No Child Left Behind needs revision. Retrieved July 8, 2011, from McClatchy:  2 Garner, R. (2011, June 6). Are Finnish schools the best in the world? Retrieved July 12, 2011, from The Independent: improve this  	PRO	690
690	Sb1603109-A7ef495bf	"Supporting Ron Paul is a fad and considered ""cool"" by college students."	"""No, because there is already a draft movements to have Ron Paul run as a libertarian party candidate or an independent. So it doesn't look like people will quit caring after the primaries. I can't say that I have a feeling that he will win, but I think he will do a lot better then people will give him credit for."" It's very respectable to run as a third party but everyone who understand the election system knows that the chances of a third party candidate being elected are slim if not nonexistent. ""Loving Ron Paul is a gimmick? How is it any more of a gimmick then ""Vote for this guy because he has values?"" Values is just a buzz word to get Christians excited. Last time I checked, not to many Ron Paul supporters were hippies, although some are."" You are completely missing my point. ""No, when Mitt Romney says he wants to make strong families, that is a feeling issue because there is no way for the government to force you to be a closer family. But people have strong emotions about families and morality, so to be pro-family sounds good, but when you prod it, it says nothing. Are you pro-family? It's like saying, ""Do you support the troops?"" or ""Do you support the people of Iowa?"" Well, I don't know anyone from Iowa, but these whole campaigns are ran basically on mindless slogans like that."" Again, completely missing my point. I get what YOU'RE saying though. It's so frustrating to even address your comments at this point Not only are you missing my points but your also using a sarcastic tone. I will say one more thing and then you can have the win on this one if you'd like. ""Besides, the most ""fad"" presidential candidate, hands-down, is Barack Obama. He was talked about as a candidate for President before he was even elected to the U.S. Senate. He doesn't have much of a record to examine--which has played to his advantage--and but college students like him because of his youth and charisma. I don't think Ron Paul supporters are drawn to him because of his looks. Most of my democratic friends like Obama, but to get an answer of substance of why they like him is hard to do. Obama supporters just put something on facebook saying they support him; Ron Paul supporters do the same, but also put their money where their mouth is and volunteer through sites like meetup.com"" I am a Barack Obama supporter and I could give you a long list of why. I have put a lot of money into his campaign and volunteer through the grassroots committee. I actually like Joe Biden and Dennis Kucinich better but I'm realistic and choose to back a candidate who has a real shot at winning. I think it's silly for people to back Ron Paul, not only because he wont win, but because in my opinion he is actually bad for this country and the world. He's against the war and that's great, he wants gold backing our money, and that's good. BUT he wants to denationalize schools! No thanks. I would also never ever vote for someone who wants to keep people searching for a better life out of this country and then spend MY tax dollars to send them back to our neighbor country that we do nothing to help. I could say so much more but it doesn't matter because I respect your choice to vote for whomever you see fit for the presidency. I hope I have not used a sarcastic or condecending tone during this debate, as you have. Thanks for giving me an insight into a Ron Paul supporter. I guess I realize it's just a matter of opinion. Good luck in all you do. Adios!"	PRO	691
691	S608cdede-A6233f59f	Pressing a button that kills a random person in the world for a million dollars is worth it	Number one, the chances of killing yourself or a parent or someone important are very slim (less than a one hundredth of a percent). Also, MLK Jr. is already dead, so I don't have to worry about him. Yes, a million dollars really can save lives. Have you ever heard of loan sharks. People in Africa are dying every day because they don't have enough money to buy food and the only loans they can get have to be paid back with excessive and unproportional amounts of interest. Thinking like a utilitarianist, every life is equally precious and i believe that by pressing the button, i would be making the world a better place because I can donate the money to charity and save lives.	PRO	692
692	S608cdede-A69c4c69	Pressing a button that kills a random person in the world for a million dollars is worth it	"One, if you would save lives with the money, you wouldn't be immoral enough to kill someone. Two, what happened if you killed yourself? Three, what happened if you killed one of your parents (and one was already dead) Four, what happened if you killed someone very important in the world, like MLK JR. and then you screwed over a lot of people One. You use teh argument of utilitarianism. Read Robert Nozik's ""Anarchy, State, and Utopia"" HE states that you can not take any of his unalienable rights to save someone else. Even multiple people. He says that is his choice. If you are so utilitarian. Kill yourself for a million dollars and donate of of it. Then you violate no ones rights And life is an unalienable right that can not be taken away says our Constitution. Two. You said the chances were small. But isn't every chance small? What are the chances the one time I need something, I forget it. Three. Look at two, Four. MLK JR was an example. You could kill Oprah. Then you just hurt a hell of a lot more starving kids in Africa. You could kill our next president. You could kill anyone of the influential people in the world. But I think my point still stands. What gives you the right to violate someone's unalienable right to life?"	CON	693
693	S608cdede-A182861fa	Pressing a button that kills a random person in the world for a million dollars is worth it	First off, I need to negate your argument that every chance is small. That is not true at all. Every event in the universe has a probability. Flipping a coin one thousand times, odds are that you will get heads about 50% of the time. That is not a small chance. That is just one of many counterexamples to your completely false statement. But I guess the debate is turning to the question- which is more important, the wellfare of all humankind, or the wellfare of just one's self. You say that everyone has the inalienable right to life, but if everyone has this right than why do civilized democratic nations go to war to kill people. The answer is to save the lives of a larger number of people that would have died otherwise. I think if you were put in a situation where you were forced to either kill one family member or friend or your entire family and all of your friends, you would choose to kill just one person. Any moral person would probably agree with this. The difference in my hypothetical situation is that the choice is kill or don't kill. In the above example, it is kill or kill. In the above example, you don't have to live with as much guilt because you did not have a choice to save a life. But the results are the same in both cases. I don't think you can argue that one million dollars can save more than one life (At least the probabilities that it can are well above 50%) So at first look, it might seem like a very immoral thing to do, killing a person for one million dollars. But if the intention is good and the results are good, then what is so immoral about it. You might answer, the means- killing a person. But we do have the power to see into the future in a way. We can predict outcomes based on probability. This is a fact that cannot be argued. Roll two dice 30,000,000 times and i can guarantee that 7 will be the most popular sum of the two dice. And if we can be sure of the end result and the benefits outweigh the consequences, then what is so immoral about killing a person for a million dollars?	PRO	694
694	S608cdede-A66db4b31	Pressing a button that kills a random person in the world for a million dollars is worth it	The number of people that a person knows personally is on average 1,000 people. This means that the chances of the person being someone you know is one in six and a half million. The average number of people that a person knows impersonally is around 4000, still a very small percentage of the world's population. In fact, the chances that killing a random person will affect your life in any way is one in a million. With millions of people dying a day, what does one more person matter. Think about how many lives you could save with a million dollars. Also, think about the sweet pad you could buy, not to mention the gold-digger wife you will wed.	PRO	695
695	S989b71f6-Ae05ede4c	Resolved; The United States Government ought to guarantee Universal Health Care to its Citizens	"I affirm ""Universal health care"" (hereafter called ""UHC"") is a system wherein the government provides health care for its citizens. ""Health care"" is the promotion of health via the administration of medicine and the provision of amenities such as birth control. I value Morality as prescribed by the word ""ought."" In matters of morality, we look first to harms and benefits because the capacities for suffering and enjoyment is what makes a being worthy of moral consideration. Singer: The capacity for suffering and/or enjoyment or happiness""is not just another characteristic [This] capacity is a prerequisite for having interests at all. A stone does not have interests because it cannot suffer. Nothing that we can do to it could possibly make any difference to its welfare. A mouse, on the other hand, does have an interest in not being tormented, because it will suffer if it is. If a being suffers, there can be no moral justification for refusing to take that suffering into consideration. The absence of harm is good in itself, while a benefit has to be enjoyed by someone to be good, therefore harms outweigh benefits in moral consideration Benatar: Consider pains and pleasures as exemplars of harms and bene@257;ts. It is uncontroversial to say that (1) the presence of pain is bad, and that (2) the presence of pleasure is good. However, such a symmetrical evaluation does not apply to the absence of pain and pleasure, (3) the absence of pain is good, even if that good is not enjoyed by anyone, whereas (4) the absence of pleasure is not bad unless there is somebody for whom this absence is a deprivation. the absence of [pain] is ensured by not making a potential person actual this absence is good when judged in terms of the interests of the person who would otherwise have existed. We may not know who that person would have been, but we can still say that the avoidance of her pains is food when judged in terms of her potential interests Benatar Continues: Once a life reaches a certain threshold of badness no quantity of good can outweigh it, because no amount of good could be worth that badness. Compare two lives""those of X and Y""and consider the amount of good and bad X""s life has (relatively) modest quantities of good and bad""perhaps @257;fteen kilo-units of positive value and @257;ve kilo-units of negative value. Y""s life, by contrast, has unbearable quantities of bad (say, @257;fty kilo-units of negative value). Y""s life also has much more good (seventy kilo-units of positive value) than does X""s. Nevertheless, X""s life might reasonably be judged less bad, even if Y""s has greater net value, judged in strictly quantitative terms. This shows why the assignment of calues in a system of positive utilitarianism must be wrong Because of the suffering that is inherent to life, coming into existence is always a harm and thus reproduction must be immoral Benatar 2 We tend to ignore just how much of our lives is characterized by negative mental states. These include hunger, thirst, tiredness, stress, and discomfort. For billions of people, at least some of these discomforts are chronic. These people cannot relieve their hunger, escape the cold, or avoid the stress. However, even those who can @257;nd some relief do not do so immediately or perfectly, and thus experience them to some extent every day. In fact, if we think about it, signi@257;cant periods of each day are marked by some or other of these states. People are so used to the discomforts of daily life that they [often] overlook them entirely [but this] does not mean that our daily lives are not pervaded by them. The negative mental states mentioned so far, however, are simply the baseline ones characteristic of healthy daily life. Chronic ailments and advancing age make matters worse. Aches, pains, lethargy, and sometimes frustration from disability become an experiential backdrop for everything else. Now add those discomforts, pains, and sufferings that are experienced either less frequently or only by some (though nonetheless very many) people. These include allergies, headaches, frustration, irritation, colds, menstrual pains, hot @258;ushes, nausea, hypoglycemia, seizures, guilt, shame, boredom, sadness, depression, loneliness, body-image dissatisfaction, the ravages of AIDS, of cancer, and of other such life-threatening diseases, and grief and bereavement. The reach of negative mental states in ordinary lives is extensive. Benatar continues: The positive features of life, although good for those who exist, cannot justify the negative features that accompany them. Their absence would not have been a deprivation for one who never came into existence. It is curious that while good people go to great lengths to spare their children from suffering, few of them seem to notice that the one (and only) guaranteed way to prevent all the suffering of [your] their children is not to bring those children into existence in the @257;rst place. There are many reasons why people do not notice this, or why, if they do notice it, that they do not act on the realization, but the interests of the potential children cannot be among them, as I shall argue. Nor is [and] the harm produced by the creation of a child [is not] usually restricted to that child. The child soon @257;nds itself motivated to procreate, producing children who, in turn, develop the same desire. Thus any pair of procreators can view themselves as occupying the tip of a generational iceberg of suffering. [If] each couple has three children, an original pair""s cumulative descendents over ten generations amount to 88,572 people. That constitutes a lot of pointless, avoidable suffering. The only way we can prevent all this suffering is by not reproducing. Thus, the only useful criterion can be Lowering Birth Rates. Humans are not the only ones who suffer because of human existence. The entire natural world is negatively affected by humans"" destructive nature. Kochi & Ordan: When taking a wider view of history, one which focuses on the relationship of humans towards other species, it becomes clear that the human heritage "" and the propagation of itself as a thing of value "" has occurred on the back of seemingly endless acts of violence, destruction, killing and genocide. While this cannot be verified, perhaps ""human"" history and progress begins with the genocide of the Neanderthals and never loses a step thereafter. It only takes a short glimpse at the list of all the sufferings caused by humanity for one to begin to question whether this species deserves to continue into the future. The list of human-made disasters is ever-growing after all: suffering caused to animals in the name of science or human health, not to mention the cosmetic, food and textile industries; damage to the environment by polluting the earth and its stratosphere; deforesting and overuse of natural resources; and of course, inflicting suffering on fellow human beings all over the globe, from killing to economic exploitation to abusing minorities, individually and collectively. In light of such a list it becomes difficult to hold onto any assumption that the human species possesses any special or higher value over other species. Indeed, if humans at any point did possess such a value, because of higher cognitive powers, or even because of a special status granted by God, then humanity has surely devalued itself through its actions and has forfeited its claim to any special place within the cosmos. In our development from higher predator to semi-conscious destroyer we have perhaps undermined all that is good in ourselves I contend that UHC will prevent untold amounts of suffering by lowering birth rates. This is true for two reasons. 1. Health care is empirically proven to increase education Haas: Those who reported poor childhood health completed approximately 1.8 fewer years of schooling; are almost half as likely to work in an occupation in which the average incumbent has been to college; earn on average $13,000 less annually; and have a staggering $165,000 (77%) less in assets compared to their peers who reported excellent health Increased education decreases birth rates Kasarda: Research to date suggests that both age at marriage and age at first birth increase with female education (Bumpass, 1969; Busfield, 1972; Momeni, 1972). Completed fertility, in turn, has been found to be lower among those women who delay age at marriage (or first consensual union) and age of first birth [Also,] Through well-paying jobs open to her [a woman] because of her formal training, she may become self-sufficient and less inclined to early marriage. Furthermore, married and single women with better educations are more likely to find jobs that provide them with satisfactions alternative to children, such as companionship, recreation, and creative activity Kasarda continues: Extended schooling beyond the primary grades exposes young women, both formally and informally, to contraceptive information and material not often available through familial or mass media channels. In both developed and less developed nations, knowledge and practice of contraception has been shown to be closely linked to the educational level of wives and husbands (Bhutnagor, 1972; CE LADE and CFSC, 1972; Dandekar, 1967; Husain, 1970b, Kripalani et al., 1971; Miro and Rath, 1965; Sen and Sen, 1967; Yaukey, 1961). Most research supports the conclusion of Ronald Freedman and co-workers (1959), that ""the more education a wife or husband has, the more likely that the couple has used contraception, that they began early in marriage, and that they planned their pregnancies and avoided more than they wanted."" Thus, having demonstrated that human reproduction causes suffering and that UHC reduces the rate of reproduction, I urge a strong affirmative vote."	PRO	696
696	S269c4789-Ace9b3294	Homework has little educational worth, and therefore is a waste of students' time	Homework has a lot of educational value, the reason it has not shown this is because teachers do not set the right kind of homework or they set the wrong amount of it. Some teachers believe homework is for reviewing material, others think it is better for learning new concepts. The result is 'confusion for students'.1 If the homework was consistent however, and related specifically to what is learnt in the classroom, it would have a great deal of educational value by helping them remember their lessons and increase students' confidence in how much they are learning. Furthermore, Professor Cooper of Duke University has shown that by the high schools years, there is a strong and positive relationship between homework and how well students do at school. There are two main reasons why this relationship does not appear in elementary school: 1) Elementary school teachers assign homework not so much to enhance learning, but in order to encourage the development of good study skills and time management;2 2) young children have less developed cognitive skills to focus and concentrate on their work.3 Thus, they are more easily distracted from their homework assignments. 1 Strauss, 2006 2 Muhlenbruck, Cooper, Nye, & Lindsey, 2000 3Hoover-Dempsey et al., 2001	CON	697
697	S53a43ac3-A2b8bb417	Life is not worth living, when you fear it more than death.	Ok? Well I have courage to overcome them	CON	698
698	S53a43ac3-Abf992c70	Life is not worth living, when you fear it more than death.	lol, idk what we're debating anymore...	CON	699
699	S53a43ac3-A3f84b532	Life is not worth living, when you fear it more than death.	"People do understand pressure, i understand the pressure of life. I know disobedience because i have disobeyed God, government rules, and parental authority, however i stand my ground that i shouldn't have because order brings goodness and well-being. Fearing a pitbull? Why should i fear an animal when it can bleed and die off just as i can? I'd say it's best if you make your own nature true from the start. I prefer danger that i can overcome in the worst circumstances, seeing or not seeing it is irrelevant. I agree, this world will forever be a thorn in our sides as many people, politicians, trolls, people who deserve punishment to the fullest aren't punished, but it all depends on your perspective. I wait a day when God will make all things right and execute absolute justice. Forget the gender roles, i accept my humanity. I've been hurt by alot of people, but temporary destruction brings new beginnings constantly. I understand that we humans fall short of our own standards and God's as i experienced myself. I committed so much wrong even though i said i wouldn't, that's why God is the only one worthy to judge man. There are things we can't change and there are things we can change. Let us change what we can and let God do the rest. This world is a hell, but at least we can allow God to put everything in place. We will face alot of hardships and circumstances that will seemingly hold us down, but it won't. We lie when we say ""I will never do this or that again!.."" Fear brings an illusion. Fear causes you to think of the worse case scenarios, but what do you do? What does any successful person do? Dive in..practice faith and courage. We take pain and become stronger. Strength builds character and character brings destiny. I would rather live overcoming circumstances and perfecting myself, fearing neither life or death because in the end, i will become what God called me to be..."	CON	700
700	S53a43ac3-Aa7374c2f	Life is not worth living, when you fear it more than death.	That's because you never debated; you vented.	PRO	701
701	S53a43ac3-A26c145f8	Life is not worth living, when you fear it more than death.	"There is no reason to think with your heart, friend - use it to color your words, that are composed by your brain. Your heart is a personality, not a practical tool that analyzes, assesses and assimilates the encompassing variants of dispersed realities between us all, while advocated by one consequential ultimatum of realities. We live in different minds, experiences and states of moments, however we share the same absolute world where in our feelings and our thoughts do not align with the rules and physics of this Universe, itself. Use your brain - by feeling, you are not thinking; you are reacting. We are here to discuss points, not be disgusted by them. Let go, listen, lean in, and life will speak. As long as you are angry, personal, regressed towards your feelings, rather than practical focus points, this discussion will erode towards your heart, rather than the sea of stars of this cosmic totality. Your ego does not debate; it deconstructs to protect itself, your feelings and your own interests. You react to my debate, like you react to your enemies, your fears and your own defeats, weaknesses and hypocrisies. This is never a good sign of thinking, friend. Step into the darkness - let it define you; do not define it. You cannot change the other side of this world, where in death, evil, hatred and unnecessary despair thrives. Now, that being said, if you're going to oppose my points - do it with your brain, not your heart; do it with practical statements, not personal statements; do it with facts, not feelings. Alright, friend? This is a debate between you and I - let go of God, when you are here to work with reality. Make a reality out of your dreams; do not make dreams out of your reality. You cannot prove a personal God's existence; but for the sake of connectivity, let's just say your God, is my Universe. It is not being; it is not living; it is not thinking; it is becoming, just like us and bacteria. We are naive, not alive. We are benign, not being. ""It"" is the result of ""everything that is"". We will leave it at that; there's no reason for you to anthropomorphize this ""God"". There's not reason for you to argue with this ""God"". You have a brain, a voice and a system of collective consciousness... use it."	PRO	702
702	S53a43ac3-Aa408740c	Life is not worth living, when you fear it more than death.	I can't see how this all relates to fearing death more than life?	CON	703
703	S53a43ac3-A91d9ef2d	Life is not worth living, when you fear it more than death.	If you do not fear child sex rings, corrupt bodies, politics, trolls, psychopaths, idiots in a world where in death, despair and darkness is advocated by the very actions of above, then you are not a human being; you are not listening; you are not existing.	PRO	704
704	S53a43ac3-Aa9155e5f	Life is not worth living, when you fear it more than death.	"The heart is reactive, hence it's consisted of electromagnetic waves greater than any area of the human body - the heart is where information is truly received, but how it is received depends on how the brain was built. You listen to your heart, while your brain is feared by you and neglected because it brings you grief; the brain tells us the truth about the reality we live in. You do not want to accept that truth, which is why you only use your heart, which is like only using paint, but having no picture made. It's a mess of colors that constantly overlap each other providing you nowhere. You only react - you don't create. You only become emotional, without any true sense of embrace. You only know how to hold on, not let go. You're still using the primitive part of your brain by not heeding the practical part; where in facts, evidence, objectivity, analysis, assessments, sensibility, duality, unbiased, inconsequential, and so on, exist. All of the above can be validated by simply going back to the point that you took my wall of thoughts and turned it into a premature session with your anger and emotional drama, which has nothing to do with how we live in fear in life more than death. This is not about you or your God - this is about actual life, and only life. So do not think that you can get away with debating with your heart, not your brain. It doesn't work with me; I was raised by a mother that is as angry and god-riddled as you are... I know your issues through and through. You will not taint the work, passion and effort I'd put into this debate with your irrelevant feelings. Drop the god. Drop the feelings. Drop the angst. Drop the reactions. Use your brain, and go back to my first post. Look at the points I made with your brain, not your heart that is guided very little by a brain that hasn't made it to adulthood due to being subjected to a lifetime of dwelling and emotional reactions that lead it nowhere. Frankly, nobody cares about your transient feelings. We're big brains on here - we are here to fight for a real cause and point out the real massive issues in the world. We're not here to throw tantrums about trivial matters, like what you are doing in my debate I put a lot of time and years to write as coherently as I did. Until you write a cohesive response, I shall pin this on you: ""Can't make sense? Make noise."" When you finally use your brain to draw real analysis based on the entirety of this Universe, not this small world of consciousness that exists solely because of the entirety of this Universe, I will remove the pin. Until then, I will not be tolerating another human being that doesn't understand how life works as the ocean as per the air pockets in the sea. Life is all about popping air pockets and reuniting the entire sea. Your own air pocket of a reality is only a weakness, friend. Learn how to bring the whole world in, not just this and that."	PRO	705
705	Sed52489a-A4e974579	A university degree has far less worth than it once did	Fifty years ago, a university degree was so much rarer than it is now. Having one immediately distinguished you from the competition when it came to starting a career. With so many graduates leaving university every year, the marketplace is becoming flooded, and those who really need to set themselves apart from the rest in their academic field are having to stay longer to do post-graduate courses. This means much higher debts upon graduation, and also means that they are older and have less 'practical' workplace experience than some others, giving them one possible disadvantage, even though they've gained another.	PRO	706
706	S7064c844-A41af5613	DDD's 30th debate: Physical Education SHOULD be a requirement in schools	"Thanks, DDD. I only have one contention and a concluding statement left to give... so this round is gonna be pretty short too. It's probably for the best that it worked out this way anyhow-- had I used up all three arguments in round 1, I would have none left by now and run something ridiculous like Zaradi's suffering K. Anyways, given how many arguments Pro has presented, my final round for rebuttals will surely end up being much longer :P C3) There are alternatives the PE This contention builds upon the other two. Simply put, if there are alternatives which are more effective than and cost less than PE classes, then they should be preferred over making PE mandatory, thus negating the resolution. The main alternative I will look into is educational programs to promote practices associated with healthy living such as nutritional diet and regular exercise. The saying ""Give a man a fish and you feed him for a day; teach a man to fish and you feed him for a lifetime,"" applies to this very well-- it is much more beneficial to teach students the value of actively pursuing good health (teaching them how to fish) than it is to force them to exercise for 16 minutes a day (giving them fish). Not only is the presented alternative more useful in that sense, but it is also less costly, mostly because it can be carried out in a traditional classroom setting (as opposed to the new gymnasium that would have to be built to host PE classes). Such a program is clearly preferable to PE classes, and, as such, PE classes should *not* be made mandatory. CONCLUSION: First and foremost, physical education classes should not be made mandatory because they are not effective, barely even giving students *half* of their absolute *minimum* necessary daily physical activity. Just as importantly, PE classes are immensely expensive to schools, so coupled with their general uselessness and the limited budgets of most schools, implementing mandatory PE classes is neither feasible nor beneficial. Lastly, there *are* more practical alternatives to making PE mandatory, so naturally, those should be preferred. The resolution is negated. I turn the debate back over to Pro for the final round."	CON	707
707	Sd0229689-A24cf8616	Liberalism in its modern form is a mental disorder* * must credit Dr Michael Savage	"Very good and detailed responses, I hope it made you think Now there are some insane people on the left, like the 9/11 crazies and there are alot of nutjobs that are paranoid that Bush and the right are out to get them. Most liberals just are misguided and think (a) the libs and for the poor and (b) us conservatives are for the rich and the little guy vs big corporations and what not Now looking at your responses, which were interesting (BTW I havent read any of Ann Coulters books, but I do find her quite hillarious) 1) No, liberals believe the AIDS virus is spreading due to lack of funding in sex education wrong. It is for the most part (in the US) passed on by BAD BEHAVIOR which is WELL KNOWN BY the gay barebackers in sex clubs, intravenous drug addicts, and other such folks your argument WOULD apply in places like rural AFRICA and places like SE ASIA where there are silly beliefs like having sex with virgins cure aids, etc. 2) No, liberals are against capital punishment because we believe that the system is not infallible. Innocent people have been put to death or released barely in time. As for abortion, most liberals don't belief life begins in the first few months so we/they don't see abortion as killing the innocent but preventing it from developing. Innocent babies are that, and worthy of protection. I would argue 99.999% of death penalty cases are guilty and deserving of it, or at least life in prison. There are VERY FEW ERRORS in the justice system 3) Puberty is hitting kids younger and younger, so liberals feel its important to educate children rather than them going out and trying to educate themselves. this is a MYTH propagated by the left, who want to CORRUPT CHILDREN It is the PARENTS ROLE to educate their kids on these delicate subjects. PERIOD. Giving the STATE this role is what the communists want 4) No, liberals don't believe lawyers are selfless heroes and I'm not sure where you got that idea. Liberals do believe however that medicine shouldn't be a business, so when doctors run their industry like a company its very upsetting. yes they do- look at Edwards the ambulance chaser and again, the state control over medicine is a DISASTER and needs to be completely rejected. all it means is rationed, and poor care, and good people not getting into medicine Most of the problems in the Medical business are caused by lawyers and lawsuits 5) No, liberals do not all believe that guns should be outlawed but we do believe in more strict gun control, which I don't think in any way implies anything about our feelings toward Red China. Huh ? Most libs want you outlaw private ownership of firearms, look at DC and NY for example (the sullivan laws) and on Red China, they are a threat, and commies, and we conservatives are very aware of this threat (mostly economic not military for now) 6) Well, yeah. Liberals do tend to believe that so many CO2 emissions are not doing much more harm than good. Nature is like a balance and the CO2 emissions from cars are tipping the balance. This is total BS. CO2 has NO effect on climate, and every green plant on earth uses it and we breathe it out. CO2 is GOOD for the environment. period. Warming slightly over the long term is GOOD. the opposite is an ice age. Do you want that? If you do, youre insane. Cold Kills ; warmth is where we live and thrive. 7) Apparently then to be conservative you have to believe men and women have roles set in stone that are there naturally yes . this is correct. FAMILY wise, The father should generally be the worker and provider and the mother should stay home with the babies and small children until they are in school. I think having children in general, and raising them to be good human beings, is what life is about. To go through life and not ever spend time raising kids, and if you're lucky having grandkids, you miss out on life. If work arrangements can be done (like me and my wife) where both work part time and take care of the kids the other time, so that the children dont have to be in day care, that is best You may be suprised - I think gay people are qualified to raise children, if they are monogamous, and provide a good environment for the children. I dont see this happening very much with gay men, but it is much more common with lesbians. Liberalism in the exteme is suicidal. Many libs never have children, because they are too selfish and just want to spend their life fulfilling their short term desires (partying, being promiscuous, traveling, not wanting responsibility) When they are parents, many times they are quite old before they become parents- this is VERY TRUE where I live in Marin County, north of SF. There are several reasons for this, but mostly its about money. Then what happens is when the kids are teenagers, they are like 65 , and DONT have the energy to keep the kids in line and out of trouble. Or oftentimes, the lib parents here were big partiers back in the day, and then tell their kids about it and tolerate them partying when they are too young BOTTOM LINE: You have to set a good example for your kids. And as far as jobs go, there are some jobs (military, firefighter, rescue personnel, professional athlete, etc, where PHYSICAL requirements are paramount. Men and Women are DIFFERENT physically. Men are stronger, and women smarter. YOU SAID I think what liberals believe is more that women should now be able to do the same thing as men with the same pay and the same standards. Well, conservatives think this too. However, there should be NO bias given based on sex, race, religion, nationality, or personal sex preference. period. If a black lesbian has better SAT scores, grades, and experience than a white male, she should get the college slot over him, and vice versa. If a Chinese or Indian national applies for a high tech job, and has an H1 Visa, the company should choose them or whatever candidate they want that is the BEST FOR THE JOB in THEIR opinion. American kids in general, across all races and classes, are falling behind in math and science and real learning, because, plain and simple, (1) they are lazy and dont want to tackle tougher subjects and (2) are going to institutions with increasingly dumbed down standards, mostly due to increasing liberal socialist teacher union influence in primary, and communist marxist infiltration in the secondary instituions Liberals go to college and study ""womens studies"" , ""minority studies"" and other pap liberal arts garbage, where they are taught to hate America and the republcans and conservatives, instead of studying math, engineering, nursing, biology, or pre-med or pre-law and getting their money worth. YOUR NEXT POINT Also homosexuality is natural as far as nature is concerned (all kindsa gay animals in the world). Male Homosexuality and Female Homosexuality are very different. While a natural human impulse, I agree, degenerate, promiscuous, and otherwise dangerous sexual behavior, gay , straight, bi, or whatever, if taken TOO FAR, becomes a sort of mental disorder. I live in SF, trust me I KNOW this is true. and most I think what you mean is the liberals believe the biggest threat to this country are people who want total control and want to stay in the 1700s. the 1700's? I would say we are nostaligic for the 1950s in some ways, and certainly respect the ruggedness of the pioneers, I dont think you can say conservatives or republican are ANTI TECH or ANTI CAPITALIST I mean the nature freaks (of which I am one to a certain degree but not a wingnut) , who are ALL LIBS, want to get rid of all kinds of things and drag us back there if anyone Oh Well- out of space Wil"	PRO	708
708	Sdabcc311-Ae1712038	Visitors to the US find its drinking laws frustrating/laughable	Many American college students find themselves going out on the town with under-age international students and having to explain why the United States does not allow them to drink. This is embarrasing, frustrating, and hampers bonding between Americans and foreign visitors.	PRO	709
709	S5d50491e-A574e5976	The US Federal Goveronment should abolish 99%of its functions	First of all my opponent claims that we should abolish the entire government, so from here I only have to argue that education and military spending are necessary. Either way I only claimed that we should abolish all government programs except these, not all government powers aside from these, though this would be a good idea. The necessity of limited government: My opponent claims that we can live without a government because humans automatically recognize immoral behaviors as immoral; therefor we can govern ourselves as individuals. This is not so, James Madison pointed out; “If men were angels no government would be necessary.” But men are not angels, this is fairly obvious, natural law didn’t prevent Muslims from bombing schools or committing atrocities. So someone needs to enforce this law, this is why the government was created. “We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.--That to secure these rights, Governments are instituted among Men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed,” The Declaration of Independence. So the government should preserve our liberties, i.e. life, liberty, and property. Without the government and the second amendment we would all just be victims of whoever came along to victimize us. Say China wants to enslave us, how are we to prevent this but to have a strong national defense and the right to defend our nation ourselves. Then there is the issue of education, how will we ensure that all our children get an education without funding? Where will this funding come from but the government? If we abolish all other functions, as well as slashing the income tax and government spending, and reducing government regulations, as well as providing military spending and an educated public, our economy will experience unprecedented growth and opportunity. Thus these functions should be retained. The case for low taxes and no debt: The government should pay off its debt with all deliberate time, and we don’t need to go into debt to fund education, we can do that with a 7% income tax and no further taxes. Either way there will be consequences to a 21 trillion dollar debt. But like my opponent said what is stopping the government from simply recreating this situation again? That is why I am proposing we pass a constitutional amendment banning government borrowing. We then pass another constitutional amendment banning the government from creating any more powers. It’s that simple, “The founding fathers had a very good idea of government, they said the government should be very limited, and they should be protecting our liberties, and providing a strong defense and a sound currency, we don’t do any of that.” – Ron Paul	PRO	710
710	Sf76890a8-Af1fe0707	Higher Education is outdated for the millennial generation	Yeah, I prefer the 10,000 character limit anyways. Since you also didn't provide an argument in this round, I'll wait for you to do it next round	CON	711
711	Sa513ba08-Ab63aaf23	Exams Ought to be Abolished from the Education System	Thank you to my opponent for accepting this debate. I look forward to an intellectually stimulating exercise, and one that is happily non-partisan in nature! Dear DDOians, we've all been there haven't we? Either in High school or University, the anxious moment of walking into class, and not having any idea what can be in front of you...I think we all know what the nature of the exam is like. Something I think we can all connect with very easily! C1: Exams Exasperate Mental Health Issues My first argument is straight forward. Exams ought to be abolished as they torment the very minds it seeks to evaluate in the first place. Every year from High Schoolers to University members, charities, the University medical services themselves become flooded with students. The students often already have depression or anxiety for instance, and have added difficulty in studying. Its completely unfair. Some students don't even have any mental health issues, will develop them. For instance, a student with family stresses, work stresses, and school stresses, doing an exam can be the final straw that breaks the camels back. The overall goal of academic institutions is to educate the populace, and because exams damage students instead of enhancing their critical analysis, I think this is grounds for removal. Source: http://www.telegraph.co.uk... C2: Exams Do Not Actually Show Intelligence Exams are utilized to show pure information recall in a given point and time, that point and time being when the exam is, and what the professor, or teacher opts to place on the exam. Unfortunately, this doesn't actually show how intelligent the said student is, only how excellent their memory is. Worse yet, is that the questions are subject to what the Professor or Teacher deems important to the course to be on the exam. If a student finds something else about the course interesting, and remembers that information over what the head of the class deemed important, its actually worse for the student. It makes them look like they've learned nothing, when in actuality they have. This is a frequent issue, as sometimes students will complain and appeal exams on the basis of material not even being taken up in class. Combine this argument with C1, and clearly exams at best only test how the student keeps their cool. If one can even say that. Source: http://www.ascd.org... C3: The Same Exam Could Have Different Marks In a lot of cases, the exams are not marked by professors. Which can lead to some serious issues. For instance, if a grader is in a bad mood, and is marking essay exams, they might not actually give as many marks as is deserved, or vice-verse. Personally, I've been though this in my economics course in University. I noticed my grader didn't add the total marks right, and brought it into the professor to adjust the mark, instead of getting an additional bonus mark, she remarked the whole thing and my exam netted 10 more marks. These are not small discrepancies, and this is not the only time this has happened, it happens to thousands of students every year, which highlights how ineffective exams are. How are professors and teachers suppose to agree on what a student knows, when they cannot even agree among themselves what is worthy of 1,2, or 3 marks? The answer is they cannot. Source: http://harvardmagazine.com... C4: Essays Are Much Better Tools of Evaluation With an essay, organizational skills, critical thinking, time management, research, spelling, and grammar skills are utilized within the work. The Professor/Teacher can make a much better evaluation of a students' skills within that paper than on an exam. Because students can ask their teachers/professors for help during their completing of the assignment, it leaves much less room for error on behalf of the student, but the student can work on their skills while completing the job (the professor can show them how to do research if need be). This cannot happen in an exam. The nature of an exam would require giving away an answer which defiles its very purpose should one of these skills be lacking in the student. The exam does not always utilize critical thinking, and it is a poor judge of time management skills (especially if the professor made the exam time and size impossible to complete, which often happens). With students on an exam, cramming is a common study method with little avail. Source: http://www.dailymail.co.uk... C5: Cheating Lastly, exams can be cheated on. If someone plagiarizes an essay for instance, or falsifies a lab report, the methodology of the lab, and turnitin.com can detect if something is amiss. It is much easier to cheat on an exam and get away with it than it is an essay for instance, enhancing academic integrity. Upon asking students themselves, one paper points out that 59% of students cheated on an exam once, and 39% were repeaters cheating more than once. Compare this to essays, in which only 33% would cheat comparatively. Sure, cheating will always be an issue insofar that assignments will always be given, but if this simple solution enhances academic integrity just a little more, then its silly to continue with exams, and instead we should implement other assignments. Source: https://charactercounts.org... Thank you! Over to my opponent.	PRO	712
712	Sf4a16d9-A1fe99156	If you accept its ok to eat a chicken you must also accept some cases of cannibalism are ok	If you were in the middle of no where with one person then be my guest and cook them and eat them but what if that human has a parasite inside them or something that will make you very sick. Would it be worth to eat the human but then suffer after?	CON	713
713	S442da727-A159b6775	Government was required to drive through major changes such as drives for equality within society, universal education, and preservation of the environment. Mostly in the teeth of big business	Nobody would deny the role that remarkable individuals have played in the major social changes of history. They have, however, ultimately required the actions of government. Many of these have been achieved despite, rather than because of, the interests of business. Critically they have tended to be to the benefit of the weak, the vulnerable and the neglected. Governments have been responsible for social reforms ranging from the abolition of slavery and child labor to the removal of conditions in factories and on farms that lead to injury and death, in addition to minimum wage regulations that meant that families could feed themselves. By contrast, the market was quite happy with cheap cotton sown by nimble young fingers. In turn profit was given preference over any notion of job security or the right to a family life, the market was quite happy to see water poisoned and the air polluted – and in many cases is still happy with it. The logic of the market panders to slave-labor wages to migrant workers or exporting jobs where migrants are not available. Either way it costs the jobs of American citizens, pandering to racism and impoverishing workers at home and abroad. Although the prophets of the market suggest that the only thing standing between the average American and a suburban home - with a pool, 4x4 and an overflowing college-fund is the government, the reality could not be further from the truth. The simple reality of the market is this: the profit motive that drives the system is the difference between the price of labor, plant and materials on one hand and the price that can be charged on the other. It makes sense to find the workers who demand the lowest wages, suppliers who can provide the cheapest materials and communities desperate enough to sell their air, water and family time. Whether those are at home or abroad. The market, by its nature has no compassion, no patriotism and no loyalty. The only organization that can act as a restraint on that is, in the final reckoning, government which has legislative power to ensure that standards are maintained. It is easy to point to individual acts that have been beneficial but the reality is that the untrammeled market without government oversight has had a depressing tendency to chase the easiest buck, ditch the weakest, exploit where it can, pollute at will, corrupt where necessary and bend, break or ignore the rules. It requires government as the agent of what the people consider acceptable to constrain the profit motive.	PRO	714
714	Sc2f75af9-A135d79ee	The Electoral College should be abolished in favor of the popular vote/run-off system	"""This is going to be a pretty messy debate, since my opponent chose to go with the ""shotgun method"" of argumentation"" You're the one that chose to copy-paste sources and previous statements, opposed to answering directly, not me. I responded to you directly by quoting you and following with a response. ""Swing states...who cares?"" ""Lock states...who cares?"" So your arguments against the massive weakness created by the EC is ""who cares?"" The argument by dismissal is a logical fallacy. Ignoring my arguments doesn't make them go away. I showed you how swing states and lock states are created by the EC, and how voters are disenfranchised because of it. Failure to refute, and dismissal of arguments- not a very good way to win a debate! ""The difference between having votes counted at a state level or at a national level is merely symbolic"" No it's not, because counting them on a national level guarantees that one vote be counted as one vote, and that all votes are counted equally. Counting them at a state level (and having the EC system) not only guarantees that some votes will count for more than others, but that many votes won't be counted at all. ""An electoral college tie has never happened, and mathematically is extremely improbable"" Yes, since it is unlikely we should ignore it. That seems like good policy for electing the president. You have admitted that your system is flawed, but it's ""so unlikely"" we should just pretend it's ok. ""This is a poo argument"" Wow, rather convincing! Oh, and another argument by dismissal. ""I could just as easily say ""direct vote can tie"" even though thats mathematically improbable. "" Now you're grasping at straws. First you say it's not a big deal, now you say ""well your system has that problem too!"" The difference is, when you have tens of millions of people voting the chances of a tie are literally asymptotically close to zero, whereas we can easily calculate the probability of a tie in any given presidential election, and they are far from negligible. And by the way, it seems as though you don't even understand the system you're supporting, and here's why: It's not ONLY a tie that would create chaos. It's if a candidate doesn't reach the 270 electoral votes. A third party candidate who wins a few states dramatically increase the probability of this scenario. So go ahead and re-write the argument: ""BUT A TIE IS UNLIKELY!"" because it only shows you don't understand the different scenarios the EC can create. ""Why exactly does it matter if the house chooses the president...? "" Because the president is supposed to be elected by the people, not Congress. If you have no problem with the House choosing the president, that's fine with me, but I hope those who might be voting on your side would be fine with it too! ""It's nonsensical to criticize the EC for having two ""main"" candidates, when a runoff system does the exact same thing."" A run-off system guarantees that ALL candidates who are running have equal opportunity to be voted for, and that all votes cast toward that candidate will count. Under the EC system, any vote cast for a non-mainstream party is like voting for Donald Duck. Under this system, since one vote = one vote, it doesn't matter if you win the right states, you have to gain support throughout the nation. The runoff system allows the two top candidates to run head-to-head, if no MAJORITY is earned in the original election. ""it makes sense that the president would be decided by each specific state individually. "" He/she isn't. The president is decided by the few swing states created by the EC system. The millions of democrats in Texas, the millions of Republicans in California- they can stay home. They don't matter. But those lucky few who happen to live in the right states, THEY MATTER! Your argument would only work if votes were apportioned under the EC, but they aren't- a winner-take-all format, dividing the US into 51 voting districts, guarantees that many, if not most states will have a certain outcome. It's only the states that are ""close"" that matter. ""Not using something something to elect senators has nothing to do with the president"" And yet, you're the one that brought up the nonsensical ""we might as well abolish the senate as well"" So when you stray on an irrelevant tangent and I respond to it, you're going to try and say MY argument is irrelevant? Sorry, those type of slimy debate tactics won't slide here. ""They have a voice larger than their population to keep the large states from swamping the small states"" I already refuted this argument too, and yet you keep trying to make it. The House and the Senate are the constructs that protect the small states from the large states. The election of the president is an entirely different issue. One vote should equal one vote- everyone's vote should be the same, no matter where you live. And by the way, if you did even just a little bit of math, the issue isn't large vs. small states, it's lock vs. swing states- because the few swing states are the only ones that matter. There's a reason 99% of the money is spent in 16 states. ""No impact argued, who cares?"" This seems to be a favorite response of yours. As long as you know that this argument by dismissal is a logical fallacy, I welcome your continued use of it! ""My opponents arguments have literally no impacts at all"" When you understand why ignoring and dismissing arguments isn't a valid debate strategy, then you'll understand why you haven't refuted the vast majority of what I have said in the least. ""you prefer the status quo since he gives no compelling reason to change it. "" CASE AND POINT: I've stated several times that a few states shouldn't decide the election, the importance of your vote shouldn't be determined by the state in which you happen to live, and that one vote should equal one vote- And yet your haphazard ""ignore-and-assert"" (ignore what I said, assert that it is flawed and that you have defeated it) strategy has gotten you nowhere in this debate. Not to mention, you made several claims which were lacking in evidence, that I asked you to give some for, and you didn't do that either. ""Recall also that I've already won the debate since he gives no impacts and the status quo is preferred by default. "" Once again, you're more interested in asserting ""I WIN"" than actually refuting my arguments, or defending your own position. I already pointed out that your ""status quo is preferred!"" argument is an appeal to tradition fallacy, but you ignored that too. ""but the reason those states have so many electoral votes is precisely because they have higher populations...victories in all of the large states would be an almost certain popular vote victory"" Miserably false. As you've brilliantly pointed out, the winner-take-all nature of the EC means that you only need a SMALL victory in the state to win ALL of their votes. By bringing up ""popular vote victory"" you are implicitly admitting that the popular vote is the fairest standard, yet ignoring that entirely for this debate! ""He cites the example of the 1992 election to try to disprove my point"" Because I did. You claimed that the DPV was flawed because someone could win even without the majority. I showed you not only that you ignored a portion of my argument, (the runoff) thus failing to refute my point, that you made an argument AGAINST your own system in doing so. ""the senate, which gives small states disproportionate representation, governs the whole nation, and is elected state by state (sound familiar?) shouldn't be abolished"" People elect senators in the states they represent. There's no need to elect the national leader state-by-state, especially when such a system disenfranchises voters in most of the states. SUMMARY: My opponent there's no problem with the House electing the president. Moreover, the EC means that only a few states decide the whole election. Vote DPV,1 vote = 1 vote"	PRO	715
715	S99e6abf2-A23d3a25a	What to study in college & why? [Career Challenge]	"Hello onlookers, I am Regaladia. I made this challenge in order to give ideas about career paths. I will pick 6-9 study fields, & propose why they should be highly studied. Challenger will then pick 6-9 different study fields, & do the same. Since this round is just for hellos, I would like to ask my challenger to follow 3 simple rules: 1# CHALLENGER MUST PARTICIPATE IN EVERY ROUND! (I highly disapprove of individuals that forfeit.) 2# Challenger should be my devil's advocate. (Explain why my picks are pathetic choices.) 3# Challenger ""CANNOT PLAGIARIZE,"" & must cite sources. (That's if you gathered info. from somewhere outside your mind.) If these are followed, then this will be fun. Good luck to my future challenger. I hope you enjoy the debate my future onlookers. Let the challenge begin!"	CON	716
716	S664d2873-Abbcd6819	Resolved: The USFG should eliminate its nuclear armed ICBM force	I accept this debate. We need the nuclear armed ICBM in order to protect ourselves from foreign countries in case we were either attack, threatened, etc. It is dangerous but it is worth it in order to ensure our safety.	CON	717
717	S5346a370-A441f2f4a	Free Education Lowering Poor Rates	I accept this debate. My primary argument will be against free, four-year, private university (therefore not Elementary, Middle, High School, Trade School, or two year Community Colleges) and discrimination against the poor.	CON	718
718	Sd5ad7f78-A1dc4bbb	John jay College is the best school ever.	There's always room for improvement in technology. However, I believe that John Jay tries it's best to update it's software systems. And it's very in tuned with the latest technology.	PRO	719
719	Sd5ad7f78-Ab99fd766	John jay College is the best school ever.	John Jay ifs the best school ever because they have nice computer labs. The cafeteria is super clean, offers a variety of food choices, and had plenty pod seats. The professors at John Jay are very passionate about what they teach and encourage students to aspire more than they ever thought.	PRO	720
720	Sd5ad7f78-A6a150f02	John jay College is the best school ever.	Although John Jay may be intuned with the latest technology it should focus on facilitating resources such as academic advisement. Hiring more staff for the academic advisement office may make life easier for the students and allow them to have a better experience. It may take weeks before a student gets to meet with an academic advisor. It is a drag to go in there and everytime a student does there's a chance he/she might get turned away because there are too many students for the office's staff.	CON	721
721	Sd5ad7f78-A36607620	John jay College is the best school ever.	John Jay is not the only school with professors who are passionate about what the teach. This doesn't make John Jay the best school ever because there are also many professor's who just teach because they need the money and are not enthusiastic about working and make lessons boring and difficult to learn.	CON	722
722	Sd5ad7f78-A1ea4cc5f	John jay College is the best school ever.	Doing it's best in advising all students doesn't make John Jay the best school ever. Getting good advisement could make John Jay the best school ever if they could orient the students better. Many times new students end up taking a course that is not required and this may be a set back for them. Students should be given a clear and detailed list of the required of courses because those in the degree audit are not adequate.	CON	723
723	Sd5ad7f78-A885238b	John jay College is the best school ever.	A lot of professors complain about the sound and visual not working properly in some rooms especially the Westport and North Hall. There shouldn't be a problem with the technical equipment in our classrooms because each students pays over 100 dollars every semester for technology fees.	CON	724
724	Se7fa8bb9-Aad0f894b	The USFG Should Substantially Increase Its Exploration of Earths Oceans	"At the end of this relatively short debate, here are three reasons why you sign the neg ballot: 1) They have conceded they are untopical It was previously established that the over-arching resolution was the following: ""Resolved: The United States Federal Government should substantially increase its non-military development and/or exploration of the earth's oceans."" (I can post a screenshot of that establishment in comments). In my first speech I outlined three interpretations of this baseline resoution, and reasons why the aff not meeting those interpretations matter. By the second speech, the only thing we see the case doing is extending on her case and elaborating it, in the hopes that the judges would vote aff on the presumption ""case outweighs"" (which I remind the judges a) she did not make this argument, b) I will actually address it in the Capitalism Critique). By doing this, she concedes all the problems I discussed in the Topicality debate, making them true and active in this debate. Since there's no point debating an affirmative that won't meet a previously-met resolution that was decided upon by both teams,this is an indepedent reason to sign neg, irregardless of whatever else happens in this debate. 2) They have not answered the Capitalism Critique First, an overview Our alternative is to vote negative in order to endorse a strategy of revolutionizing social relations for sustainable socialist praxis. Capitalism has both an ECONOMY and ECOLOGY of domination and exploitation. Only pragmatic solutions addressing both these things can properly resolve human needs without adversely interacting with nature. THE TRANSITION TO SOCIALISM AND AN ECOLOGICAL SOCIETY ARE ONE—that’s Foster 2008. Voting negative ties the ballot and our ethical orientation towards pragmatic movements happening at the periphery in places like Cuba, Venezuela, Brazil, and Bolivia which are moving toward this revolutionary praxis, BUT such movements MUST be mirrored in the advanced capitalist world or else they will be crushed by the larger system. Next, the Line-by-Line While the affirmative has made no active answer against the Capitalism Critique, she has extended case far enough and deeply enough to the extent that I must answer accordingly lest some judges make that a voter since I would have nothing else on my page other than ""they dropped it, we win."" First, the critique outweighs. What makes the critique a bigger deal to you than the case will on the ballot is that it reaches a far-greater implication-- i.e. magnitude-- than the case. The aff squabbles about lack of US heg? Cool, how about extinction of the entire human race through drasticallly unhealthy resource abuse for production of commodity and/or nuclear war over the Arctic because of-- wait for it-- commodity? Yeah, I thought so. The drastic-ness of the critique's terminal impact fudges a possible timeframe argument some of you judges might have. Sure, the aff will happen sooner. But think about it- it comes and goes. No nuclear war, life goes on. But the inherent ugliness of capitalism has not been changed in any shape or form, it still goes on. That means even if the aff has faster timeframe, its impacts go away with time, leaving room for Capitalism's final and fatal impact. Lastly, if any of you are thinking ""oh, this critique cannot possibly happen, it's way too big"", allow me to counter that for you. This is because the Internal Link that my critique describes is already in motion-- the aff's plan to go up to the Alaska and savagely breaking up the land to take those ""REMS"", without a care for how it will play out; it plays in motion through describing this new ""REMS"" in terms of new monies that the USFG would get, only to further the system of capitalism we are hit with today. To get a full scope of the impact, imagine every single capitalist country in the world doing what the USFG is. Mining up the environment and ultimately poisoning it more and more, raising up the stakes for global superiority until countries finally say ""ALRIGHT, THAT'S ENOUGH!"" and brawl it out through thermonuclear war. In other words, what makes the critique more probable is that it serves as a deeper story into the problems of capitalism, while the affirmative serves as that quick peek that does nothing other than to further those same problems. Next, a role of the ballot. Interp: The judge is an intellectual deciding between competing political strategies – the aff is a defense of market-based policy making Their interpretation is incoherent – “we get the plan” begs the question of how the aff should be evaluated – they only get their impacts insofar as they justify their political strategy We solve all their fairness claims – we don’t wish away the 1AC, they just have to justify it And we impact turn their education –policy-making education means nothing in the absence of understanding the ideological dimensions of that education—crusading without understanding the problems results in serial policy failure since we can never properly address the problem Policy focus bad—it’s incredibly foolish to assume policy making is the only force for change in the world. Ultimately, the question of what side gets more education should be decided not on the future consequences of the two, but what we, as the actual debaters—and students—get out of this round; this is because the act of learning something (ie. Education) comes from actually experiencing it, in this case debating. Too often policy debate has consisted of students contesting impacts, impacts they’ve heard of only because of policy debate, and impacts they’d forget once they leave policy debate for the real world. While this is education for the debate season, this kind of education won’t help in the long run. The Capitalism kritik truly outweighs more in education in the long run. Arguments like this one seek to undermine the very thinking/causes that in of itself cause these policies to occur, in this case the exploitative nature of capitalism. It forces debaters to really think about their world, and how they can change it. Finally, a reason to vote negative if you're so biased against anything other than policy that you've ignored the critique up to now There's still Topicality to vote up, and the case doesn't do anything to help the US other than give it more money (expendable money), and ultimately will cause its destruction (since it links to the critique). Only by embracing the critique can we net-help the USFG, by averting its destruction. 3) While Cross-X implied that the aff was going to provide answers to the pieces of evidence I cited on the case debate (I gave citations earlier in comments), the aff did not. While the aff did indeed extend her case and make it less vague for lay judges, she did not address the underlying questions of her case that I brought up in my previous speech. For instance, I brought up evidence that criticized the entire notion of China's hegemony on R.E.M's, that it was inherently unstable (see my first speech). All she has done was to reiterate what the plan will try to do to counter this ""problem"", thus leaving it uncontested. With this in mind, consider the affirmaive as it stands it right now. The USFG might not be able to control R.E.M.S, but China won't either, because its control is unstable. OK, so? Both countries are equally problematized economically. There's no need to waste money to force out limited -value R.E.M.s from Alaska. This takes out the reason why we should do the aff, and else is a reason to independently vote neg on presumption. Hence, at the end of it all, I have shown how the aff is a bad idea (the critique), and how it can't do anything (the case debate). All in all, I urge the judges to vote neg."	CON	725
725	S1bd03141-A17861db5	Rescuing our Failing Education System	German school systems are pathetic. Even my opponent knows this truth.	CON	726
726	S68f43582-Aba23f0f0	Public education in America is the death of freedom	Al Gore, the almighty capitalist and ultimate fossil fuel abuser has brainwashed you into believing inconvenient truths.	PRO	727
727	S1ce229d0-A5ca882bd	College Football is better than NFL football	Extend my arguments like the protruding eyeballs of Giles Corey. I urge you to vote a Con ballot in this debate.	CON	728
728	Sa05dcf19-A2bd3213b	The Electoral College Voting System In the US Should Be Replaced	My opponent has forfeited and has not refuted any of my claims. I extend all arguments.	PRO	729
729	Sa05dcf19-A2bd3213b	The Electoral College Voting System In the US Should Be Replaced	My opponent has forfeited and has not refuted any of my claims. I extend all arguments.	PRO	730
730	Sa05dcf19-A94438134	The Electoral College Voting System In the US Should Be Replaced	I accept your challenge.	CON	731
731	S5d50491e-Aeba02d9c	The US Federal Goveronment should abolish 99%of its functions	Google docs are not a violation of conduct, I will argue that the US Federal Goveronment should abolish all its powers exept these: 1. Provide a strong national defense. 2. Stamp gold and silver bullion or coin certifying weight and purity for use as money. 3. Fund public education. The following it should leave to the states and the rest it should give to the people. 1. The minimum wage 2. Healthcare	PRO	732
732	S51e5652c-A64feabf	Education nowadays should be mostly computerized	"The point about tracking someone, bothers you. Lets use a simpler way of confirming attendance. Scanning the schools bar code or simply using an app that with a button press, sends your location to the school. A lot of your address my previous points, but they dont counter-argue them. For example, the fourth point, is absolutely your personal statement, which says that face-to-face teaching defeat virtual learning. There is no research supporting that argument. Doctors, hi-tech people, scientists, lawyers etc, use the internet. Number 5 is exactly my point. Why to reiterate it? 6.7. I never said that I would use google during the exam. ""the information encoded into long term memory as a result face to face communication is the best known methodology for facilitating encoding."" That just shows how little psychology you know. ""What's actually driving up tuition are the redundant administrative positions that are growing in number. not hiring professors. but that's a debate for another day."" And that point shows that you like talking about something else and not address my point. I was talking about them being high in the current rate. Not why they are growing. ""Having an online community to help you would be beneficial as long as it was used as a supplement to what was taught in the lecture."" True. You just reiterated my pro argument. ""Information must first be encoded into long term memory in the lecture, "" Here is that last hilarious closing statement again."	PRO	733
733	S51e5652c-A821b8387	Education nowadays should be mostly computerized	I used to be a programmer and today I am an information security consultant. I am a business management graduate. My argument is that, technology could replace most of the learning today. Today you can, - Upload lessons on the web. - Share resources together like reading material and exam papers. - Regulate progress and attendance via different apps including geolocation apps. - Community support in forums by the teacher and other students. - New apps can be developed to drill the material or hold the material in form of notes. - If presence is required, in case of some lab or field work. Such arrangement could be made by the school. Pros: - Low tuition. - More compliant students since they struggle against the technology instead of a teacher (Technology is a method of control in organizations and it is supported by research to work). - Students can go on their own pace instead of others and complete more material. The disadvantage is that people socialize less when they dont attend school. But it is not an issue educators should be concerned about. Another disadvantage that such plan is mostly suitable for students above a certain age (high school) kids.. because they have more discipline to commit themselves to studying. Below such age, all responsibility falls on the parents.	PRO	734
734	S45570f76-A4ae124f4	In the United States, the Electoral College should be abolished.	I accept.	CON	735
735	Sde2ed754-A39e6ab4f	The U.S. Federal Government should increase its exploration and/or development of space	"I will first attack my opponents case, then defend my own, and then my final remarks. To attack my opponents case. 1. Inspiration Today's youth are, lets say under qualified to be astronauts, scientists, or engineers to work at NASA. ""Overall, the federal figures report 57 percent of white students finish their degree, compared with 44 percent of Hispanics and 39 percent of blacks.""[1] this is concerning college dropouts. Becoming a scientist, engineer, or an astronaut requires a lot of education and a lot of training that the current youth isn't achieving. With a lot of people dropping out of school, they are not able to work for NASA. The reason is because all the youth don't care about anything. The reason why everyone was so impressed by the first moon walking is because it was a much simpler time then it is now. Today there is a lot of things that would WOW! any one who never saw them. So if someone of today's youth were to see that, they would be like ""meh, I don't care"". Therefore increasing the space program won't inspire any youth, or kid to work for NASA because they won't care too much. 2. Knowledge The reason why America is behind in both mathematics and scientific literacy is explained in my first attack. Increasing the space program wont change America's math or science status compared to the world. America will get knowledge as other nations make discoveries, so there won't need to be a need to increase the space program. America will know more over time, as the need for new things on earth will be needed, such as advanced warfare, preventing natural disasters, and/or creating new cures, the point I am getting is that Knowledge will be obtained over time, such as Albert Einstein, with his many theories. 3. Technology and Advancement Alright so Moore's law would become obsolete over a matter of time, but in my second attack, technology comes over time. Let's take a look at the time line of technology, in certain points of history when there was great hardships like the ""dark ages"" or the great depression, have brought forth great technological advancements. Like I said in my second attack, America can get new technology with out increasing the space program. America has already got the best of technology from the space program in the past. 4. Cost and payoff To increase the space program would leave America a greater cost then what ever the payoff will be. I agree with my opponent that in the past 10 years there has been many, lets say ""bad things"" that left a ""pretty bill"" on America's debt. To even think about increasing America's program, America would need to take care of the ""bill from their expensive dinner"". Sure America has spent a lot of money in the past, but how could we drop the debt and work on the space program, I think that America should try to fix the major debt problem first. If America were to spend more money to the space program it would have to break some bones on some other important things like education, and my opponent's second point cares about knowledge. Therefore if my opponents fourth point is true then my opponent's second point wont work, so my opponents fourth point contradicts my opponents second point. Now to defend my case. 1. World peace I still believe that the world needs to be in a sense of world peace to increase the space program. My opponent brought up robots or satellites going in for now, but there could be hackers to hack these robots or satellites and then turn them to go against America. There are many different ways a ""space terrorist"" could strike the U.S. such as attack America in space, attacking America from space, or attacking America through the Internet world. As soon as America increases it's space program, they would broadcast to the world about it, so they seem stronger then everyone else, but then the people behind wiki-leaks, could hack America's government and get the technology and then sell it and then other countries could use it to attack America. If America doesn't increase it's space program then it would prevent this new way to attack America. Other countries are behind in space technology so there is no need to increase America's space program. 2. Debt and Money Just like I said in my fourth attack, America would need to make certain cuts to increase the space program. Before America could increase the space program, it would need to take of the debt crisis. Try to picture America's debt as a stack of pancakes, each pancake is something to pay off, and America's plate is full and can't have any more on it, so there isn't that much room to increase the space program, so America would have to start to clean off it's plate. 3. Various Dangers A. I do agree that a lot of people in the past have done many great things that would danger their lives, but the fact that they are on Earth and they could get help if their life was in danger is a different thing. But unlike space, there is no luxury of gets any thing you need right there, to increase the space program would increase the risk of people losing their lives in space. Before America increases its space program, there would need to be a discovery to do things safer in space, which won't need an increase in the space program. B. There are many signs pointing to the potential of other life forms in the universe, the universe is big and ""A new discovery of bacterial life in a Martian-like environment on Earth suggests our neighboring red planet could also be hospitable to some form of microbial life.""[2]. There is ice on mars, so it has a very high chance of life, and certain bacteria or some kind of virus could live in the ice which could harm the human race if brought back to earth. Increasing the space program would lead to the possibility of exterminating the human race. C. I will say, America needs to develop a safer way to send people in space, and at the rate America's space program it will find it with out the need to increase the space program. If America increases its space program it would put people in danger in space. Now for my final remarks. There is no need for America to increase its space program, because America is fine where it is and it would also cause more problem then benefits if America increases the space program. I am not saying that America should throw away the space program, but not to increase it. Everyone has to realize there are more important things then the space program that should be taken care of first. Going back to my pancake stack metaphor, America's plate is too full to increase the space program, so lets let America start to clean off its plate before it tries to get seconds. If America were to increase its space program, it would have to make certain cuts, and the lowest priority is education. In the end, America will make the right decisions to help everybody. So I ask you, to vote Con, because America is fine where it is, and there is no need to increase the space program. Vote Con! [1] = http://www.msnbc.msn.com... [2] = http://www.msnbc.msn.com..."	CON	736
736	Sb1cf8ab-A71626956	Direct popular vote should replace the electoral college in U.S. presidential elections.	"This will be a PF style debate. Round 1: Pro begins debate by presenting its case. Round 2: Con presents own case and attacks opponents' case. Pro defends his case and attacks Con's case. Round 3: CX. Con questions. Pro's responses and questions. Round 4: Con's responses. Pro's ""final focus"" (telling why they think they won) Round 5: Con's ""final focus"". Pro does no arguing or rebutting (pro started the debate so Con should finish it to keep the debate as fair as possible). Also, I would like to ask the voters to only vote on who made the more convincing arguments and who used more reliable resources. (a forfeit in any of the rounds will result in an automatic loss)"	CON	737
737	S442da727-Ae2c11bf2	its government Big and Beefy	Government was required to drive through major changes such as drives for equality within society, universal education, and preservation of the environment. Mostly in the teeth of big business	PRO	738
738	Sceba7e7b-A93b80f49	Resolved: The United States of America should create coral reefs along its coastlines(Policy debate)	"OV1: A DDO debate is not a formal policy debate unless the rules in R1 make it so. Pro did not put these rules in R1, so they were not a part of the debate I accepted. Ergo, voters should reject these rules. OV2: Extend my point that Pro implies his 3, 4 and 11. None of these should stand as sources. OV3: How is it abusive to request the basic underpinnings of your case? Pro is presenting a technology that few people understand, and expecting that everyone read deeply in order to understand any of the debate. He's still failed to explain how biorock functions, and that failure contributes to the misconceptions he cites. Inherency Pro drops my point that his inherency doesn't support his case - it supports mine. All of his sources tout the benefits of natural coral reefs, not biorock reefs. As for Goreau, don't take my word for it. Read his: ""active global ecosystem restoration strategies are urgently needed to prevent crippling economic losses to marine biodiversity, fisheries, tourism, and coastal resources."" Biorock formation around a single country isn't a global ecosystem restoration strategy. Goreau may support biorock, but he doesn't support Pro's case. On the CP: 1) I solve for political confusion (note that Pro doesn't) by ensuring that scientists are active participants in how restoration occurs. I'd argue that requiring scientific advisors will enlighten politicians, but it doesn't matter if the political sphere is still confused, so long as they're facilitating the activities of those who understand it. That's what my CP does. It puts scientists in a position to make changes to coral reef policy. It doesn't happen now because there's a lack of political will. 2) The perm fails. First, as I showed in my rebuttal, Pro's biorock formations actually harm natural reefs, which means that his case contradicts mine. Second, as I also showed, political will changes after plan passes. Pro can't do both because the problem is effectively masked and any support for it dries up after spending $8 billion on biorock. 3) Again, this is not formal policy debate. Most people reading this aren't going to know what these types of CPs are, or what a permuatation is. However, for your sake, it's unconditional. 4) Pro says my plan is vague, but never states how. I took the time to explain what was missing from his (even if he barely acknowledges them), Pro must do the same. Plan a) I showed that Pro's case lacks a number of essential pieces. Pro has not explained why any of these are unnecessary. As I go through the advantages, it will become clear why the lack of specificity has important implications, but for now, let's use that car analogy. It would be like saying that we need a car to solve a given pressing situation in specifics place, and that we will throw money at car companies with a couple of technical specifications until the car appears anywhere. Sounds like fantastic policy! b) Again, this is not formal policy debate. I haven't taken the debate hostage - I've explained why several of these deficits affect Pro's case. Without specifics, his advantages oscillate between plausible and impossible. c) So, specificity destroys education? Pro explaining how biorock works to an audience of non-scientists destroys education? And policy jargon is educational? Turn this voter against Pro: so long as he decides that it's not worth his time to explain the very technology he's employing, and instead emphasizes the very tropes of policy debate that make it impossible for outsiders to understand, Pro is damaging education in this debate. As for fairness, it is entirely unfair to present such a technology without background and expect your opponent to dredge up research just to comprehend it. If anything, the vagueness detracts from the debate, forcing me to argue against a shifting case that Pro can ""clarify"" when he chooses. States A great example of Pro ""clarifying"" his case. Still, I'll grant this so we can move on. Advantage 1 b) Per Pro's source: ""$1.8 billion (2011 adjusted) is the median"". c) Pro drops that he's applying biorock to the coastlines of 4 states that haven't had a hurricane in at least 28 years, and thus wasting money and time there. d) What Pro's [7] says is that natural reefs protect shorelines, not biorock. This doesn't function as evidence for his case because it's not showing biorock attenuating waves. In fact, if you look at the report (that's the source Pro says ""is utterly wrong"", otherwise known as HIS SOURCE), you'll see that it spells out what about the reefs makes them effective, and that's cheifly the reef crest. Lacking that, biorock formations make bad subsitutes. If you keep reading, you'll find that it talks about the depths of the reefs being an extremely important determinant in how much they attenuate. Pro drops all of this. He also drops that the author himself (Beck) makes a statement directly against Pro's case and for mine. Beck makes clear that creating new reefs is a bad idea, and that conservation should be prioritized. I don't know how much more case specific you can be. If that point is based on opinion, that opinion is very well-informed, and one Pro apparently respects. Back to vagueness. Pro's case doesn't state how deep these mineral accretion systems will be placed, just that they will be along some coastlines. Looking at Beck's paper, the depth of the reef is essential. Assuming Pro thinks depth doesn't matter, he's going to have a high variability of placement. Depending on how far offshore it is, the effect on wave attenuation could be nil.[14] Since Pro won't specify, I'll specify for him: these will always be placed far offshore to prevent any concerns with boats, and will thus do next to nothing to attenuate waves. It's up to Pro to prove his solvency, not up to me to disprove it (even though I've done just that). As for my claims: Accretion is a slow process, ""Minerals have accreted to a thickness of up to 20 centimetres over three years.""[15] Going to need a lot more than 20 centimeters to see any effects on large waves, and that's supposed to be rapid. We're talking about decades before these reefs become a viable sea wall. As for surveillance, this seems relatively straightforward. You're placing electrodes on the ocean floor. There are living creatures down there, and, in some cases, strong wave forces. They tend to move things around. There's no reason to believe that 50,000 miles worth of this stuff is just going to be fine on its own without regular monitoring. And, back to vagueness, Pro hasn't included any means of monitoring in his plan. Advantage 2 Pro drops my response on cancer. He can't just wish for a cure. The treatments he cites haven't made a dent in cancer mortality, and he gives no reasoning as to why a cure is even possible, let alone likely to come from these sources. His response on HIV is non-sensical. We already have lubricants that fight HIV, and condoms are already effective without them.[16] He doesn't contest that the price for this protein (which has to go through extensive and costly clinical trials)[17] will far exceed other effective methods. His links don't show any therapeutic benefit (""preventing...growth"") - they merely talk about preventing transmission. Pro's entire case seems to rely on uncertainty, stating that there are life forms down there we don't know yet that maybe, possibly, have some unknown protein that cures disease. He's idealizing possible outcomes, when the reality is that most such efforts will represent a massive cost and no gain, with a success rate of 1-in-5000.[17] And that's if they find something promising. The reality is that most organisms won't have any promising leads.[18] Pharmaceutical companies risk a lot by pursuing them. This also assumes that biorock formations will be hot spots for marine life that we haven't seen, which he's failed to prove. Pro even talks about mass harvesting of marine life, and then ignores the fact that that will massively deplete marine life around these sites, thus reducing their biodiversity. Solvency Pro writes off my responses. This is going to hurt. None of what I've cited as potential problems is specific to any type of artificial reef, and are thus applicable to all artificial reefs, including biorock. Like my [9], which shows that any marine life that clings to artificial reefs is going to be very different from those on natural reefs and any success transitory. My [8] shows that there are multiple factors that affect the success of any artificial reef, none of which his plan addresses, and that artificial reefs depopulate natural reefs. My [10] reveals that artificial reefs can degrade marine resources. My [13] even assumes that his reefs will attract fish, becoming publicized sites lthat lead to overfishing, further reducing populations and biodiversity. Pro cannot assert that mineral accretion ""exerts literally no negative force on the environment it is put into."" He cannot assert the inapplicability of these points to his case. All of them point to problems that occur when new reef structures appear on the ocean floor, and that means any reef structures. They don't require specific materials to be applicable. Biorock is not infallible just because artificial reefs are worse. Extend my point about masking and lost political clout for activists. Extend my argument regarding reduced political will for law-makers. Both of these function as independent reasons why the plan and CP are mutually exclusive, as well as disadvantages to his case. Extend my weighing argument on the importance of marine life. This makes plausible biodiversity harms the most potent impacts in this debate. Pro has yet to argue that his case would in any way improve biodiversity, whereas I have shown that it will be harmed. 14. http://bit.ly... 15. http://bit.ly... 16. http://bit.ly... 17. http://1.usa.gov... 18. http://cbsn.ws..."	CON	739
739	Sb0b23714-A182288f6	Naruto is overrated, and is average at its best	"Rebuttals to opponent's case. There isn't really a ""case"" yet, so this will be short. I'll try to figure out my opponent's points here. 1) Naruto = fun to watch A: it would be funny B: it has fight scenes About the funny part, we'll get back to that later. But the jokes are clearly made for a younger age group. The fight scenes can be entertaining, but I have already criticized them for returning factors. That makes the fights nothing more than just simple entertainment! 2) entertaining, but with a deep and enriching story. Here it fails for both age groups: younger kids are annoyed by the enriching story, older viewers are annoyed by the unfunny jokes which don't entertain at all. Opponent kind of agrees that it deserves to be criticized as a generic shonen. And, my opponent states that voice acting is awful. Okay, back to my points: 1) My opponent says that you COULD feel bad for Naruto, however, we're clearly not meant to identify ourselves with him. In all ways, his arrogance is something nobody connects to, and in Japan, blonde hair and whiskers just makes it even harder to identify yourself with his looks. I think that for these reasons, we can't truly feel sorry for Naruto over a total of 200 episodes. Naruto would not be useless, says my opponent, his example being Haku (tailed beast, so boring) and Gaara (The toad did everything, Naruto just mentally made Gaara switch sides). About luck, it is clear that there are numerous examples. Kiba and the farting, but simply the fact that he got matched up against Kiba and not gaara. Had he faced Gaara, his carreer would've been over. Had he not stolen the multi shadow clone technique scroll, he wouldn't have ever been able to do ANYTHING! Not to mention, it takes him an awful long time to actually master the rasengan. 2) The writer's fantasy: my opponent only comments on the tailed beasts. First, it's chakra and not Karma. Second, I wouldn't mind the tailed beasts as much if they looked cooler and were featured less often. Their fights ARE boring, after all. 3) Must apologise that now that I know he has not seen shippuden yet, that telling him about Orochimaru was a huge spoiler... He says Kimimaro was a sad character, to which I agree, but he simply came and went. We could not feel sorry for him like we did for Zabuza, or for Pain. That happens too often here: the writer feels the need for side villains, which simply come as a villain, then lose the fight, and then a flashback to explain their sad story. This structure won't get us connected to characters, though. The voter will agree that the sole case of Tobi is one where the writer DID succeed. Will not spoil why, though. Also, my opponent hasn't given a good reason why side characters such as Rock Lee or Tenten should stay alive. Their storyline seems used up, and while Lee is fun to watch, Tenten is actually very boring. I'm sorry I forgot to mention that Asuma died too, making for an awesome revenge Arc. We needed to see more of that throughout the series, and less of the Naruto being a brat during Part 1. The way characters are killed off could be a lot better. The example of Itachi still counts, as that fight should have been a lot more interesting. Sasuke using his cursed seal isn't exactly what we were waiting for. I think all of us can agree that there should have been a better fight for Itachi before his dissapearance from the show! 4) Con thinks Ichiraku ramen was an easter egg, while I highly doubt new writers would be concerned with such things in their series. I'm very certain this was a readymade, as he ate there daily just like Naruto. Naruto went to the academy, the writer went to college. Clearly, the author put some of his own joys into Naruto. About the mythology: I have no problems with the showing of mythology. In fact, it should be praised. But the viewer won't truly notice much of this, other then the fact that this fictional world is entirely based on readymades. Almost none of the good stuff comes from the author's mind. Neji's gentle fist technique, exists Handsigns come from buddhist signs Sharingan techniques from goddess of sun, moon etc. This show should therefore not be praised for its originality, but only for the recounting of good stories. My true argument here was that the writers own imagination fails to keep up with the mythology. Con says it would be boring if everything already existed, but I am a 100% certain that none of you had heard these Japanese stories before. So why does the writer still add his own stupid ideas such as a ""puppet master"" which makes for boring fights? 5) I have never said an Arc was 20 minutes. I said that a small story (episode) of 20 minutes was shown within an Arc. I also doubt any TV station was willing to show a whole Arc non-stop, making it hard to see an entire Arc without missing anything. People who watch it solely on TV, will miss out on things, and because of that they can't watch the show: just like con says, don't watch it if you don't know what's going on. So on TV, this show is completely worthless. 6) My opponent ignored my argumentation here: is it worth watching these characters develop, spending literally 24 hours of episodes with little good only assuming it'll get better? Does that outweigh the time spent watching Naruto suck at being a ninja? It wasn't all bad, no, definately not. But I believe the show relies on its length to get as much attention as it does now. I would have never continued watching this if I wasn't constantly reassured by my friend that ""in shippuden, big fights will take place"". I was constantly mourning that no villain seemed to be as good as Zabuza and throughout the months of watching, sometimes I really got fed up with it. But this is personal, ofcourse. Overall though, I have shown why this show is only average rather than complete amazement throughout the WHOLE series. My opponent says we would not discuss fillers but I have given a very clear reason why that is mandatory: now, they insert important things for the main story in the fillers. Capturing the three-tails for example. Or all non-flashback moments in the lost tower promotion arc. Plenty of reasons why we should be considerate about fillers. After all, they're shown on TV too as if they are equal to the rest of the show. Conclusion? Fillers matter. Besides, the one watching on TV cannot simply skip these episodes. Con seems inconsiderate saying that last round i did not have any rebuttals to his argumentation. I thought it was clear that each person first posts his arguments, and then comments on the other's arguments the next round? Also, you haven't really given me much to refute. You have yet to prove why this show would be more than average. More than worth watching even, you have to prove that it deserves all the fans and attention it currently has. You haven't done that yet and neither are we done talking about the negative points to the show. Even if you were to refute my points, you have yet to make your own case."	PRO	740
740	Sb08445eb-A78010fa3	Hindu's are stupid because they don't eat bacon (Pro) Hinduism is a stupid religion (Con) Its okay	"I will be debating that Hindu's are not stupid and a matter of fact Hindu's do eat bacon. Firstly Hindu's do eat bacon, it is the muslims that do not eat bacon. Hindu's do not eat beef. ""Pigs are not forbidden by Hinduism except by those sects that ban all meat.""[1] As stated here hindu's eat bacon, with the exception of vegitatian which is no different to anyother religion or any normal person. ""When those categories are adjusted slightly, the data revealed that 84% of Hindus have ""at least some college"" degree (compared to 50% of all Americans) and 80% have a family income that exceeds $50,000 a year (compared to 48% of all Americans).""[2] This report details that Hindu's are potentally smarter than the average American. Hindu's are not stupid and they do eat bacon! [1] http://www.clovegarden.com... [2] http://www.firstpost.com..."	CON	741
741	S3a35888-Aa820f747	Mankind is slowly working its way toward Utopia	"""Utopia is impossible, so it's not even worth shooting for. As long as mankind is flawed, and mankind will ALWAYS be flawed, an earthly Utopia is simply impossible"" That's what most preachers, pundits and professors will fill your head with these days. To this, I proudly say: ""BULLHOCKEY!!!"" Instead, as I look back two or three thousand years into history, and compare where we are today with where we were then... Utopia seems just around the next corner. If you're within the domain of conventional wisdom, however, I'd love to hear from you!"	PRO	742
742	S3d30da9-A5a00a8f3	The United States Government ought to provide Universal Healthcare for its Citizens	"Hello ladies and gentlemen. Are you all seated comfortably? No, not you inferno. No-one cares what you think. Everyone else? Splendid. We are gathered here today to bear witness to the union... Sorry, wrong notes. Its the wedding ceremony Mirza made me prepare for ViVeri, in his words, ""just in-case"" What I meant to say is that the burden of proof lies with the 35th Arch-Bishop Ann Gel (I'm glad to see the church appointing female Bishops to such high positions in the church). So friends, comrades, acquaintances and Imabench, as the good Bishop has not defined her terms, one can only assume that she wishes to let this humble sky pirate have this honour and define the relevant and potentially contentious terms; Should; a moral obligation. X should do Y because of the moral implications. Universal health care: a health care system which provides coverage to all of its citizens. So little hobbitses, my pious 'pponent must not only prove that this cause is worth while, but also that moral implications exist. Otherwise she would be committing the is-ought fallacy. With out further ado, let the hunger games begin! All praise be to satan, forever and ever. Amen."	CON	743
743	S388394f5-A7b3c5d63	Resolved: a nation's citizens' rights ought to take precedence over its security.	"I agree with all of my opponent's definitions, and will now present my main arguments. I would like to make it clear that increasing rights and personal freedoms of citizens does not necessarily mean decreasing military strength and security and vice versa. The two don't have to be mutually exclusive. HOWEVER, it should be noted with only several exceptions, the most powerful military powers throughout history have been authoritarian governments. Once again, authoritarianism is not necessary for a strong military, but it is certainly easier to maintain tight national security when the government has tighter control of the people. One example of this is mandatory military service by at least part of the population. I. National Independence Having a military is having power. A powerful economy leads to a powerful military which can then be used to further increase economic power by influencing weaker nations into decisions that will benefit the stronger nation and keeping other nations from making decisions that detriment the strong one for fear of military action. As a result, the economy benefits, which then allows the military to be expanded etc. If a nation does not have a formidable military, then it can easily be ""bullied"" by other nations. Being heavily influenced and threatened would be the best scenario in this case, occupation and a puppet government owned by the more powerful nation is the worst case scenario. Either way, the nation and its people lose their freedom and dignity as they are forced to act by the will of another nation, for someone else's benefit. It is certainly worth sacrificing some ""personal freedoms"" of the citizens in order to maintain national independence. II. Survival of the nation's people In a more extreme example, a nation might be totally overrun or eradicated by a neighbor with more military might. Personal freedom doesn't win conflicts, and it is necessary (for the very survival of the people) to maintain a military that is on par with its neighbors. If the nation in question is conquered, then there would be oppression, loss of culture and internal turmoil that could've been avoided. III. The government exists to protect the people Why do the people of the world not embrace anarchy? Why not annihilate the government structures and live with total freedom? People created a governing body for many reasons, but the single, largest role the government plays is ensuring the safety of its people. It is supposed to do what's best in order to hold its borders, keep its citizens safe from criminals as well as neighboring, potentially aggressive nations. The government, by its very existence, must strive to maximize the security of its citizens to a reasonable extent. IV. Trust and Order Even if people are limited in certain ways, it is certainly worth the feeling of security. If people feel safe, then they trust their government and the nation becomes more united as a whole. A stronger security force or military is also good for national propaganda, which also serves to unite the people under one flag. If the people feel insecure and don't trust their government to protect them, they often take matters into their own hands which leads to disorder and increased criminal activity as every person wants the best for themselves and doesn't want to depend on the government to make things better. It seems clear that security of a nation takes priority over the rights of its citizens. I await my opponent's response."	CON	744
744	S45c6e56-A293f0ab8	"Resolved: Disney World should continue to host its ""gay days."""	"Children, Homosexuality, and Adult Topics: My opponent pretty much responds to one fallacy of begging the question with another fallacy of begging the question by stating that sex is an adult topic and that's that. He places no threshold or idiosyncracies that specifically define an adult topic. Furthermore, even if sex is an adult topic, my opponent also doesn't respond to the general idea about the learning period of children and teaching children as much as they can in order to grow into more intelligent teenagers and adults. While the PRO world makes use of the time period where children can learn in order to benefit them in the long run, my opponent's world pretty much emphasizes the idea of keeping children ignorant as long as possible. He doesn't explain why children shouldn't be taught about something like this, neither does he provide any warrant that children are not talked to about topics that are considered ""adult topics,"" including war, disease, famine, etc. Purpose: Moving on to the purpose argument, the fact that they can and do have the liberty in order to uphold a political mindset brings out the ""should"" in this arguments, where Disney can either support a mindset that helps the gay community or destroys it based on what I've explained in Contention 1. In my personal opinion, it takes a village to raise a child. It is not only the influence of the parents, but also the conditions of the milieu at which children are exposed to that determines their general upbringing, and as Disney World is a part of the community as a business, even if it's only in Orlando, FL, it holds even a little bit of responsibility in aiding the upbringing of children. Furthermore, even if everything I said is false, my opponent in no way holds any evidence that this is the only purpose for Disney World at all. My opponent is neither a representative of the corporation nor does he hold any evidence from a representative of the corporation tstating that the solitary, single purpose of Disney World is entertainment. His argument in this part holds no water because of this simple fact. Discrimination: The fact that Disney World is trying to emphasize the idea that heterosexuality has a worth and homosexuality has a worth equivalent to that already provides the implicit recognition of that sexuality. We must understand that discrimination is only to treat one group of people distinctively from the rest, and it becomes immoral when it emphasizes that this group is better for no morally or practically relevant reason. Gay days do neither with what they are advertizing. Not only does it emphasize that the sexuality is equal, but the fact that LGBT groups face so much scrutiny warrants the need for a day individualized to them, justifying the discrimination if there is any. ""Straight days"" would not be warranted as such. Gay Pride: His rebuttal here is pretty much every single argument that he stated in his arguments about the purpose of Disney World and adult topics, meaning that most of his rebuttal here is moot. The only thing that remains is the idea of alternatives and that this event does not educate, even though it provides a first-hand look at homosexuals themselves and gives them an experience itself, which is one of the techniques of education. Furthermore, he talks about the alternatives, but I explained that while the alternatives are there, there is room to branch out with the techniques used by LGBT supporters. Economy: My opponent assumes that the benefit to the economy is just one day, even though he stated himself that the preparations would be costly, and considering the largeness of the event, they would require much time in order to get done. This is not even to mention the tickets bought for planes or gas used to drive there, the food, the hotel stays, etc. Furthermore, even if it is only one day, the fact that so many people come to this event shows the largeness of the profit that would come. My opponent only seems to be looking from the perspective of the profits of the company itself in a one-day basis even though this is something planned out in the long-term. What he's saying about the proportions of people that will not come may be true, but there's no way of knowing considering he has no evidence to contradict my own."	PRO	745
745	Sa513ba08-Afd514f67	Exams Ought to be Abolished from the Education System	Thank you to my opponent for his case! R1: Attitudes to Exams My opponent says the problem with exam stress isn't the stress of the exam itself, but rather the attitudes of students towards exams. This fundamentally ignores the fact that exams frequently results in suicides, and to those who already have anxiety and depression, they are fundamentally disadvantaged even before having walked into the room. The nature of the exam by design is to place a person on the spot and recall information with no assistance. With an essay, or a presentation, the stress is still there, but it is to a much lesser extent because the person isn't relying strictly on memory. The stress can be alleviated by practising the presentation, or doing research on an essay. For exams, this isn't possible. Source: http://www.telegraph.co.uk... My opponent plays semantics, tests are exams. Although they are “less important” forms of examination, they are still a point of examination that still only tests memory over actual critical faculties. R2: Re-Testing My opponent then concedes that on occasion exams don't even test the material given in lecture. As for his “re-testing” clause. The problem is that it takes up time and resources to fix a given issue that shouldn't have happened in the first place. When one considers that these exams only tests materials that isn’t necessarily on it, and makes professors have to redo work they shouldn't have to, this is a case of abolishing exams instead of keeping them. Businesses frequently complain that instead of exams, presentations would be much better replacement, especially because it teaches something that is actually useful and frequently required in the real world. At no point in someones career will they have to answer a multiple choice exam or face losing their jobs. However, jobs frequently require the use of Microsoft PowerPoint as a skill, for instance, which would mean presentation skills needs to be more emphasized in school. Sources: http://www.markedbyteachers.com... R3: Differing Marks My opponent claims that sometimes marks can be contested. Which is true, but this isn't always an option. In some cases a veto means taking the risk of losing marks, so students might not always take it up. Furthermore, the issue gets worse if someone “bell curves” the marks in order to satisfy class averages to distribute marks. If my exam is bell curved, and I feel as though someone marked it wrong, I would lose marks. Highly unfair. And because marks can be bell curved, whats the point in an exam then in the first place if they're artificially raised or lowered? Source: http://en.wikipedia.org... R4: Alternatives Essays are not the only alternative. Presentations, group work, and several others can be utilized as well, all of which are far more pragmatic. Furthermore, getting assistance does not mean necessarily that someone “doesn't understand the work”. If I am writing an essay on prostitution, and I cannot spell “sex worker” correctly, I can still get “assistance” while still showing my intelligence on the subject. R5: Cheating Tests are exams, they're the same thing, with the only difference being how much it is weighted. Even if you do not agree with me on that, the problem with my opponents case is he is playing semantics, without critiquing the fact that students under heavy stress will cheat. This isn't possible to the same extent as an essay, presentation, or group work. Even in the sources itself, the methods of cheating still account for leaving bags at the door. One even went so far as to reprint a Coke label to cheat, with the answers on it. Summary The stress of exams means suicide for some. In one video you can see someone hop out of a window killing himself as a result (see: ) Even if it doesn't, it puts those with anxiety and depression at a disadvantage. Bell curving marks continues to circumvent the purpose of exams in the first place. And even with the precautions taken, students can still find clever ways to cheat (http://www.wikihow.com...) Thank you! Over to my opponent.	PRO	746
746	Sa513ba08-Acb09a3f0	Exams Ought to be Abolished from the Education System	I accept, and will argue why exams should not be abolished. I look forward to your arguments, thanks	CON	747
747	Sbd70c81e-Ad6fd5c15	We should follow the example of Finland's education system.	YO nigga listen up! the race card is over used today. yo yo yo, finald got swag nah b. American is swagin. American numba 1 dont talk nigga until you know what you talking about! finald dont got swag, america got swag. Ameriac swag. finald not swag. GOOD GAME U JUST GOT OWNED!!!!	CON	748
748	Sbd70c81e-A4fe7820c	We should follow the example of Finland's education system.	You are absolutely positively wrong. You have not proved why Finald's system is better, instead all you did was state the contrast between their system and America's system. You have not stated WHY having less homework, less school days is better. When you begin to do so, we can have a debate. And yes, I accept your debate. Get ready.	CON	749
749	Sbd70c81e-A1338edad	We should follow the example of Finland's education system.	YO MAN WHO ARE YOU TO JUDGE. EVERYONE HAS RIGHTS. RIGHTS AND RIGHTS. DONT TELL OTHERS WHAT TO DO. GOOD GAME. PEACE OUT1!!! SWAGYOLf	CON	750
750	Sbd70c81e-A7ed10163	We should follow the example of Finland's education system.	Thanks for nothing. I have further arguments but I won't bother wasting my time if I'm not going to get a proper response. If anyone wants to seriously take up this debate I will happily start a new one. Voters, please consider who has actually put forward a proper argument.	PRO	751
751	Sc1b61f69-A573c8070	Mixed-sex dormitories should be the only dormitory type permitted at higher education institutes	"My opponent in effect has reverted on his stance that we need to worry about promiscuity. As such this promiscuity argument was a Red Herring, and I ask the voters to carefully consider this when they vote. Additionally, bringing up a point that people may abuse the system is moot as people drive their cars to fast as well, but no one is asking to ban cars. Basically, any system will get abused but that is not a good reason to dismiss something that is beneficial for society, even if a few people are doing something wrong. I am no longer actually sure what my opponents point is when he says “As for parents with ""traditional"" values, while they can seek private housing, this reduces their child's chances of socialising with his/her friends.” This is exactly why I say that mixed-sex housing should be the only type allowed as it increases socializing. In effect by arguing for socializing my opponent agrees with me. Additionally, if a parent is worried about promiscuous behavior then they should never let their child out of their house. Maybe my opponent needs to elaborate what a compromising situation is as even meeting someone in the philosophy section of the library could be considered compromising. Should we stop students studying philosophy next? I am not sure how my opponent pointing out the fact that Facebook and Microsoft were formed by males is relevant, as this debate has to do with roommates that should be allowed to live together (mixed-ex) and not have in the past lived together (uni-sex). I think if anything, that my opponent acknowledges this point about societal benefits shows that he agrees with my argument. My opponent then goes on to point out groups of friends are dominated by one sex etc. Yes, this is true as men and women are isolated. This is the reason why I pointed out that the current system of separated sex dormitories is not beneficial to a society where men and women are meant to mix. In a fully functioning society men and women should be able to work together to advance the society. By living together in the same housing this will force people to make theses connections that are good for society. Next my opponent has attacked the argument I gave for the use of bathrooms by different sexes, but no where does he say it impossible that the system cannot work. As such my opponent conceded this argument for functionality of my proposition. Let me point out here, this argument is not about bathroom use, so pointing out that people should have a choice and then saying I agree by quoting me from the debate comments “live in a private residence of campus” is false. I am saying if someone does not want to adhere to this system they can live off campus, however they do not have this choice on campus. Additionally, they should not then complain about isolation as one of my opponents arguments states. Regarding the men and women are equal in everything physical argument, i.e. whether women or men are stronger. This really is irrelevant to the debate so I will drop it. Additionally, I do not understand why my opponent brings up the argument from round two where I said “people you are in contact with is increased by 100 % if we consider a 1:1 ratio of women and men in the world”. While being in contact I agree does not make you friends, it does improve the chances and this is the reason I made the statement. Just consider the Big Brother or Survivor television series, people make bonds when they are in close contact. Its human nature. Regarding private higher education institutes, I agree a private institute can do what they want. However, what they want does not make it right. For example, if a University is uni-sex then this is not beneficial for society as laid out in my arguments. In the same way if we allow this, we should also allow said universities to discriminate based on race as well. After all there is no difference if we use the same line of reasoning. This is why laws are instated by the government. We should remember the government acts in the best interests of society and my arguments show that mixed-sex dormitories are in societies best interests. To elaborate on the government doing what is right for society. The government has acted in the past for the rights of women by allowing them to vote. Now some people argued that allowing women to vote would be a bad thing, but as women are part of society the government has done what is good for the total society (men and women) and as such allowed women to vote in the face of opposition. This means the government can enforce this rule to create a healthier society even if it is a private business. Lastly, my opponent has said I need to “pro must give a reason why one sex dormitories should be banned.” Needless to say I have supplied arguments which have not been rebutted and so my opponent needs to supply the evidence that my arguments are flawed, lest they forget that BOP is shared in this debate. In this debate all my arguments stand uncontested, and my opponent has changed his stance on multiple points. I have shown that mixed-sex dormitories can provide benefits towards society in getting rid of sexism and gender inequality by forcing people to associate more with the opposite sex. This model is not only good for society but also good for the individual. I hope readers of this debate will see the strong and valid arguments I have made and vote accordingly. I hand the debate back to my opponent for closing statement."	PRO	752
752	Sed52489a-A90ee122f	University education needs to be capped and more selective	There is not the need for the number of graduates being produced	PRO	753
753	Sed52489a-Ae952b090	University education needs to be capped and more selective	With so many new universities and colleges, employers can't tell the difference between the good and bad.	PRO	754
754	Sed52489a-A253e56e	University education needs to be capped and more selective	Students don't always attend university simply for career advancement	CON	755
755	Sed52489a-A7be8673f	University education needs to be capped and more selective	Many don't 'use' their degree after graduating, yet still end up in huge debt	PRO	756
756	Sed52489a-Ad9f2696c	University education needs to be capped and more selective	There's a national shortage of skilled labourers	PRO	757
757	Sed52489a-A7be8673f	University education needs to be capped and more selective	Many don’t ‘use’ their degree after graduating, yet still end up in huge debt	PRO	758
758	Sed52489a-A6a84df87	University education needs to be capped and more selective	We need more universities as the population is growing!	CON	759
759	S40f19507-Aa82a5738	NCLB raises standards and testing without improving education	"Sandra Nichols. ""When NCLB Standards Meet Reality"". April 26, 2003 - ""...having high standards is currently thought to be some kind of magic bullet. Certainly nobody wants low standards. However, merely raising the bar does not make a pole-vaulter able to jump higher."""	PRO	760
760	S40f19507-Aed5ca4b	Education standards between states are inconsistent under NCLB	Because different states can administer their own standards, standards vary across states, which makes it difficult to compare how states are performing relative to one-another.	PRO	761
761	S1f23449c-A5ca73	Improving Education Will do Nothing To Solve Economic Woes	*Pokes* You're allowed to be biased towards your OWN argument for goodness sake. I guess I'm a little confused about how your second point helps your side when you re-frame it this way. One of my key points is that we falsely attribute economic success to countries with a highly educated populace. Your argument would seem to back this up: Rich countries effectively buy more educated people, the presence of more educated people did not make those countries rich. I certainly hope you are correct on your final point for the sake of all of us, but as things are now, it does nothing to suggest educated countries are faring economically better.	PRO	762
762	S15cbc009-Ade7b9dbb	The US should Ensure Access to Quality Education For Everyone	I extend all arguments to the next round.	CON	763
763	S3b05a433-A9f50c546	Physical Education should be taught differently than it currently is.	PRO forfeited the round, please extend my arguments. Have a good Memorial Day everyone!	CON	764
764	Sb08445eb-Adc67360b	Hindu's are stupid because they don't eat bacon (Pro) Hinduism is a stupid religion (Con) Its okay	Hindu's are bloody stupid because they don't eat bacon. They are making themselves miss out on one of the best things in life. The social pressure that they would get from other Hindu's would make it hard to escape the cycle without being disowned by everyone you know, even though it would be totally worth it for bacon. Also they miss out on things like ham and cheese croissants and bacon pasta. Hinduism is a dumb religion, as there is also no legitimate reason to not eat pig products. It would not harm them in any way, and I don't care if you think cows are sacred in your country. Maybe if they ate more bacon Vodafone tech support would be a bit better.	PRO	765
765	S93ca0001-Ac2b3690d	The Humanities are an important part of any Education Curriculum	Thank you for understanding, Pfalcon. DONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTEDONOTVOTE	CON	766
766	S93ca0001-Adb09d9d7	The Humanities are an important part of any Education Curriculum	Look forward to starting this over at a later time, Uchi. Again, DO NOT VOTE ON THIS DEBATE! Thank you.	PRO	767
767	S93ca0001-Aef1d6a1b	The Humanities are an important part of any Education Curriculum	My opponent and I have decided to re-do this debate at a later time. DO NOTE VOTE! I repeat: DO NOTE VOTE ON THIS DEBATE!! Thank you.	PRO	768
768	S3626497e-A1ad7567e	Israel is morally justified in its attacks on Hamas	I oppose the statement! Israel's attacks are not justified! Let's understand the reality! Israel is attacking on the world's most precious creatures which is human being! are the human beings worth killing for no reason? of course NO! Israel does not have any rights to kill innocent people! if there are political conflicts, they should use other peaceful ways to reduce the conflicts! WAR is not the tool for solving the problems! if you wash blood with the blood it wont be cleaned! lets make another way of making peace! Israel is not attacking Philistine! but they attack on ISLAM! they want to show that how cruel they are, and how they had forgotten their humanity! Israel is seeing political and economical benefits on attacking Hamas! they want to occupy Bait-ul-Muqadas (بیت المقدس) at the cost of killing Muslims! I strongly oppose that Israel Attacks are not morally justified!!!	CON	769
769	Se5a44cea-Aec52c2b7	The human brains, function, geography, theorem, psychology and upkeep education should be compulsory	Knowing the brains structure will help the understanding of how it works. Imagine you have moved to a new town, it will help you a great deal if you know where the bank is, the library, the town hall, the hospital. Its the same with the brain, it will aid in the recognition of what each part of the brain does so we can all become accustomed to it.	PRO	770
770	S23e4ddc5-Abe3ef1d1	The U.S. Federal Government Should Abolish the Department of Education	I accept.	CON	771
771	Sd0229689-A784b7ff1	Liberalism in its modern form is a mental disorder* * must credit Dr Michael Savage	"I will play your game and respond, even though we both know you're using awful generalities for ""liberals"" and apparently have never read a book that wasn't written by Anne Coulter. 1) No, liberals believe the AIDS virus is spreading due to lack of funding in sex education-- liberals realize a lot of people who aren't well educated don't know AIDS can be passed through any type of sex-- anal, oral, or vaginal. 2) No, liberals are against capital punishment because we believe that the system is not infallible. Innocent people have been put to death or released barely in time. As for abortion, most liberals don't belief life begins in the first few months so we/they don't see abortion as killing the innocent but preventing it from developing. 3) Puberty is hitting kids younger and younger, so liberals feel its important to educate children rather than them going out and trying to educate themselves. If you've ever sat through sex ed in 4th grade, you'd know it focuses more on puberty than it does actual sex. Sexual health education doesn't start til middle school, and I can tell you from working in a nurse's office as a student helper for 4 years in a school that teaches abstinence only that girls would come in and ask questions like ""can I get pregnant from oral sex"" and ""where can I get birth control"". The nurse was not allowed to educate them about sex and instead had to lecture them on abstinence. This happened 5 times in my 3 years, and all 5 of those girls came back two months later with baby bumps. 4) No, liberals don't believe lawyers are selfless heroes and I'm not sure where you got that idea. Liberals do believe however that medicine shouldn't be a business, so when doctors run their industry like a company its very upsetting. 5) No, liberals do not all believe that guns should be outlawed but we do believe in more strict gun control, which I don't think in any way implies anything about our feelings toward Red China. I haven't heard hardly any conservatives bring up concern about China though, now that you mention it. Usually they're squaking about how liberals hate America and about how we love communism and love to slaughter the innocent. 6) Well, yeah. Liberals do tend to believe that so many CO2 emissions are not doing much more harm than good. Nature is like a balance and the CO2 emissions from cars are tipping the balance. 7) That doesn't even make sense. Apparently then to be conservative you have to believe men and women have roles set in stone, that are there naturally. I think what liberals believe is more that women should now be able to do the same thing as men with the same pay and the same standards. That isn't to say gender roles aren't natural, but only roles such as mating/birth and...yeah. Because all throughout history there are examples of men doing women's roles and women doing men's roles in tribes and what not. Also homosexuality is natural as far as nature is concerned (all kindsa gay animals in the world). 8) What? Who exactly are you referring to? I think what you mean is the liberals believe the biggest threat to this country are people who want total control and want to stay in the 1700s. 9) No, you don't. To be liberal though you do have to see a difference between someone who kills in self defense or in a sickly state of mind and someone who plots a murder. 10) Uh...no? To be liberal you have to believe that businesses should be fair and that the government should let the people be prosperous. 11) To be fair there is overpopulation in humanity but eagles are endangered, so to be conservative you have to care absolutely nothing about nature and think only of humanity, because that sure wont have any negative effects. 12) I have no idea what you're talking about. No liberal believes that. Good intentions are good, but it's not half the same as actually doing something. 13) No, to be liberal you might believe that the government should offer help to those who have little opportunity to contribute by asking the wealthier to contribute because they have the means. 14)...aahahahaha no. 15) Art in which means? Through museums or art classes? What the hell are you talking about? 16) Liberals don't believe the military starts wars, we believe lying politicians get morons to believe them to start wars. 17) Liberals tend to disagree with the NRA because they want less strict gun laws, not because they support a particular part of the constitution. 18) To be conservative, you would have to have never read a standardized test to know how racist they are. 19) No, to be liberal you probably believe in helping people who were basically born into poverty and have been struggling ever since that also tend to be minorities because conservative coorporations don't hire minorities unless required. 20) I'm assuming you are referring to marijuana, because most liberals don't believe all drugs should be legal. If you did any research whatsoever you'd know marijuana is safer than cigarettes. 21) No. Social programs like welfare are not for the lazy. My family received welfare for 10 years, and during those 10 years my father worked nights 40 hours a week at a machine company and my mother was a part time worker in the afternoons. On the weekends we visited the welfare center, and they gave us our vaccinations. Other families were there, too. Usually families with disabled family members were there (my brothers are both autistic). It is extremely difficult to pull yourself out of poverty without a social program from the government. In my 10 years of accepting welfare I met a lot of other families, and they were all trying. There will be the few lazy people, unfortunately, but considering that welfare was what brought my family from a trailer home in the Ozarks to a normal house in St. Louis where we no longer receive any of those social programs, I can tell you from experience and from meeting so many people that those ""government handouts"" are how we ate. They gave us bare necessities (not even toilet paper!). We got milk, tuna fish, chicken, ramen...very little with wick but it kept my family alive, it keeps many families alive, and again its how so many familys manage to bring themselves up from the lowest class so they can contribute to society. 22 and on for a while...all of these weird little sayings make absolutely no sense to me, and I don't know anyone who with your twisted words would agree thats what liberalism is except for you, your weird little idiot author, and maybe someone you invite to read your debate. 23) (""If there are two equally qualified people applying for the same job and one is a minority, do you think:"") I don't know how I feel about affirmative action, but I can say if the two are equally qualified and the minority needs the job more, yeah, the minority will probably get the job and at the moment I don't see the huge issue. I mean you said each should be considered fairly, but if the two are equally qualified the employer will usually look at who actually needs the job. 24) No, I wouldn't change my mind if the minority person actually needed the job. It's a real jerk thing to say ""well I should get the job even though we're equally qualified and the minority person has a family to support; if I don't give her the job though, and I take it, then she'll be on welfare and then the government is giving her a handout and she's lazy"". 25) No, many liberals would argue that after a psychological test and fingerprinting and other documentation, a citizen with no criminal record should be able to own a hand gun. 26) Depends what they're defending themselves against. 27) My family needed government assistance to succeed, and in college I need government aid to succeed. Anyway I'm almost out of words, but you get the idea. You're just like Ayn Rand, always twisting everything and making the liberal extreme but not the conservative."	CON	772
772	Sde24f30f-A4e0ae977	Resolved: Texas would best serve its interest by seceding from the Union	Introduction I thank my opponent for accepting the debate. I will argue that Texas has the ability to secede from the nation. Due to Texas’s political and cultural differences from the rest of the US, and the US national government engaging in economically and socially unsustainable practices, it would be in Texas’s best interest to secede. 1. Unsustainable US debt and economy The US national government has a large national debt problem. Currently the US’s gdp-to-debt ratio is 73%[1]. The US national government keeps the debt growing. Despite previous negations attempts during the debt-ceiling negotiations and fiscal-cliff negations, Congress and the president still opted for long-term deficit spending. According to projects, the US economy is only going to grow deeper into debt[2][3]. However, the government of Texas has low-debt to GDP ratio by comparison. Their GDP-Debt ratio is only 19%[4]. This is sustainable. Furthermore, Texas is a net giver of tax revenue to the national government, while other states are tax takers. Texas as a state also does not rack up a trade deficit. It actually has a trade surplus of $100 billion.[5] 2. Texan culture is different from the US When determining public policy, there’s no “objective” way to determine whether a policy is right or wrong. This is because part of it has to do with values. For example, if the local government wants to build a local park, . There are quite a few ideas that Texans hold that the rest of US culture does not hold. For example, Texas has a stronger gun culture then northeastern states. It also has stronger employer rights, allows greater business freedoms, favors smaller government and different philosophy on its justice system and has different views on teachers and education. These policies are not necessarily objectively good or bad, just different. However, . The national government has grown more powerful while state governments have been becoming less relevant. Democrats are growing in power, due to changing demographic trends and the younger generation favoring liberal policies. Democrats are more likely to favor larger governments, stricter gun control, stronger business regulations, weaker boarder controls, stronger labor unions, and do not support school vouchers. A liberal judge, appointed under Obama would allow the national government to put these measures into place. It is unlikely that there will be a “conservative revolution” that will favor policies that Texans prefer. Therefore, to preserve their culture and politics, it would be in their best interest to secede. 3. Texas has the ability to secede Texas has many benefits that make it an ideal place for secession. First, it is not a landlocked State, which allows it trade with other countries through ports. It also has a neighboring country that is not the US, Mexico. Second, it has the ability to defend itself. It has 13 military bases[6]. It also has a strong economy able to sustain itself. It has a powerful agricultural, aeronautics, computer, energy and healthcare sector. It is the largest exporting state in the nation, exporting $192.2 billion worth of goods and services [5]. It has a low unemployment rate of only 6.1%compared to the national average of 7.9% [7] It’s the second largest economy in the US, with a GDP of over $1.3 trillion and GDP per capita of $45,940[8] It also has a large enough population to defend itself. Texas currently has a population of 26,059,203, which would place it as the 46th out of 242nd largest nations if it seceded[9]. The population is high enough. The problem with the US government is that their population is actually probably too high. They are ranked 3rd largest population in the world, right behind India and China[10]. There are diseconomy of scales issues and diverse political and cultural opinions that occur if the population is too large. China and India are riddled with their own problems and corruption. It would probably be best if these nations split up. The same goes with Texas splitting up with . The resolution has been affirmed and I look forward to Con’s rebuttal. http://en.wikipedia.org...[1] http://www.usdebtclock.org...[2] http://mercatus.org...[3] http://images.angelpub.com...[4] http://en.wikipedia.org...[5] http://militarybases.com... [6] https://www.google.com...[7] http://en.wikipedia.org...[	PRO	773
773	Sae9368dd-A592746dc	Education should be Mandated in the United States of America	Opponent forfeited R3. My R2 will be my conclusion. May your thoughts be clear, -Thoht	PRO	774
774	Se0cac17a-A52ad8af3	What political party has anarchists, Communists, rioters, as backers of its political agenda	"The democratic party, at present, represents an America of civil society, a trustworthy marketplace, and civil rights. Meanwhile, the republicans have become an unhinged stomping ground of un-American grievance, anarchy, and authoritarianism. How can a party be both anarchistic and authoritarian at the same time? By systematically destroying the idea that facts exist. By electing a man who claims that he didn't say things that are recorded on video. By doing so, republicans are attempting to erase accountability, because they trust that the net aggregate of uninformed personal opinion will land on their side. Mob rule with the force of law. Who goes around talking about ""second amendment remedies?"" Who goes around claiming that the second amendment is some kind of kill switch for democratic governance? Democrats respect voter opinion because we believe that a plurality of voters should decide an election. Not the guy who got 3 million fewer votes than Clinton. We don't rely on arcane accidents of history, such as the electoral college, which Pro cannot even explain the legitimacy of, to ""win"" an election."	CON	775
775	Scc4bed59-Ac72298d8	Britain should retain its Constitutional Monarchy.	"The British Monarchy is the most famous in the world. For centuries, it has been at the heart of British life with support at its highest levels for decades at the current time (an estimated 80% of Britons support the Monarchy). Despite how it's presented, the Monarchy remains one of the most beneficial institutions in the UK. To start with, it offers an apolitical Head of State who can unite the nation in celebration, represent our grief in times of sorrow and act as a focal point for national loyalty - irrespective of one's political leanings. Let us also take time to consider the alternatives. If Britain were to abolish the Monarchy and become a republic, what would it gain? Nothing, is the answer - but we would lose a lot! For one, we would be politicising the office of head of state (it's impossible to have a 'non-partisan president', by their very nature, presidents are divisive figures precisely because they had to compete for office), we'd also lose the tremendous tourism benefit the Monarchy brings to the UK! Monarchy is presented by some as an old-fashioned institution, stopping the growth of nations. Just because something's old, doesn't mean it's not still useful! It's also worth noting, that a study of the most prosperous countries in the world in 2013 placed 8 monarchies in its top 10 - if anything, it seems to show Monarchy enhances a country's growth! The Monarchy does a lot for the international image of the UK, ask any country's citizens what they think of The Queen and they're often very keen to praise her steadfastness and dedication to the country. Ask them about a president's (or even our own Prime Minister's) qualities and the best you're likely to get is an ambivalent response. And, quite simply, in the words of the late Baroness Thatcher, ""Those who imagine that a politician would make a better figurehead than a hereditary monarch might perhaps make the acquaintance of more politicians."""	PRO	776
776	Se8acb758-A74ae4e34	Resolved:the Ivy League has lost its prestige and allure as many non-Ivy schools have exceeded them.	There are many other schools who offer the same things you mentioned, history, experienced professors, and a prominent label. These schools include Stanford, Columbia, there really is a long list. However, these schools do not come with the same overwhelming cost as the Ivy League schools. Despite, what Shakespeare said, there really isn't that much in a name and if a rose were called betty it would still smell sweet. As a person who went to Princeton for my undergrad and then to Georgetown for my law degree I can say that going to Princeton really wasn't worth the money. As for you arguement about location for any major that you are pursuing at the Ivy League there is a non Ivy school that can provide you with that same major in a better way simply becasue of thier location. A polisci degree would be better recieved at American or George Washington who are right in the nation's capitol. A medical degree would be better earned at John Hopkins were they have dozens of research centers. There are simply things that an Ivy League cannot provide but you sure are payign for anyway.	PRO	777
777	S4380d19-A586c894a	It's better for a government to keep its citizens in a state of fear.	"I would like to thank Sky_ace25 for this debate and welcome him to Debate.org. I negate, that ""It's better for a government to keep its citizens in a state of fear"". ==REBUTTALS== --Loyalty-- When people have a fear, they become dependent on a higher entity. There is no way to guarantee that entity will be government. In fact, they probably will not. Fear, as an irrational actor, also can make people irrational. More people than not will turn to religion (or another promising faction) instead of government because religion can promise the same protection, and (assuming that the fear is generated by a facade) have the same effect. Religion can use propaganda in the same way as the government, and can use public fear to gain power. Religion can then be used to motivate a force to overthrow the government, so that the religious leaders can gain power. --Community-- In the same manner as stated above, community can be used against government as a tool of other agencies. --Conclusion-- A government interested in staying in power takes a huge risk of relacement by creating fear. ==The Negative Case== Staying in power should not be the goal of government action. Even if manufacturing an external evil kept a government in control, is the government in control worth having? It is corrupt in that it has deliberately falsified information. It is abusive in that it has used unnecessary violence. It has become destructive to its own purpose, to protect individual rights. Such a government is best overthrown and replaced with a more righteous one. Loyalty can be better achieved through non-corrupt means. Efficiency and righteous action can keep a people's faith in their government. Patriotism can be manufactured through propaganda that does not consist of lies. ==Conclusion== Fear (as defined before) is a blunt, ineffective, immoral, and unnecessary tool for an ideal society. I now yield to the affirmative."	CON	778
778	S616c1321-Af17bf7f1	The U.S. Should Maintain its Alliance with Israel	"I request that my opponent include either source footnotes or the links in the text of his argument so that the readers and I can trace each claim back to its specific source. This is to prevent confusion and make sure that each claim made isn't made up. It also prevents extra work for the readers and I to do. Con has split his round into rebutting my case and making his own. I'll first defend mine, then address his. Pro's Case Similar Interests 1. Con completely missed the point of this argument. Israel may not have perfect racial laws, but they are significantly better than those of the surrounding Arab states, some of whom still practice slavery and are ruled by oppressive theocracies with restricted human rights. My argument was that Israel's relatively similar interests to America mean that an alliance between the two countries could be a political influence on the Arab states. Even if Con can argue that Israel still has a few issues, he has to admit that they are *far* better than those of Jordan, Syria, Yemen Saudi Arabia, etc. I proved this in the last round by showing the lack of rights in each of these countries in contrast with Israel. 2. The fact that Israel isn't perfect strengthens my point about using the alliance as an influence on the Middle East. If Israel were to cut its influential connection with the U.S., its hope of abandoning its racial laws would be reduced. This country needs Western influence if there is any future for its religious laws. 3. Con's mentioning of me ""painting Palestine as an oppressive state"" is a red herring. It has very little to do with the resolution, and I'm not sure sure what Con is trying to prove by trying to promote it. Palestine is a tiny area, so the fact that my opponent acknowledged it and not the other nations is odd. Even so, Israel is regarded as free with high ratings in political and civil rights areas[1], while the Gaza Strip is ""not free"" with very low ratings in both areas[2]. Peace 1. My opponent does not dispute that Israel has attempted peace several times in the past, thus conceding that it has. After the conflict over the Sinai territory in the 70's that Israel had taken, it offered Egypt the entire peninsula in exchange for peace. Egypt agreed, and peace was made. This is an astounding example of the measures that Israel will go to in order to keep peace between the nations[3]. 2. Con drops my point about the U.S. being a stabilizing force of peace through an alliance and instead tries to find two isolated actions of the IDF he finds ""unjust"". This is irrelevant as it ignores the bigger picture and has nothing to do with my actual argument. Con's Case Paramilitary groups 1. My adversary is supposed to be arguing that the status quo should be changed, as in the alliance should be cut, not that it should never have existed. Any points that he makes in support of the latter should be ignored as they are irrelevant to the resolution. Such points include militant groups that he suspects were formed because of America's support for Israel. 2. Con seems to be hinting that if the U.S. cut support with Israel then militant groups such as Al Qaeda would either die off or stop rising up against it. This is very far from the truth. If the U.S. cut its support, Israel would be rendered more vulnerable to terrorist groups such as Hamas and Al Qaeda, which is the exact opposite of what we want. Thus it is more logical for America to hold fast with Israel as it is set up for potential destruction. Cost This is actually quite minor of a point because it hinges on whether or not the alliance with Israel is worth keeping or not. If I can show that that the alliance is a net benefit, then a reader must agree that more lives saved is better than a few more dollars paid. This point doesn't really show how giving aid to another country is a bad thing unless we all assume that the alliance is pointless, which I have shown that it isn't. America's funding of Israeli military and the IDF is crucial for the protection and survival of its citizens. In the recent conflict, Hamas's organization has been shooting rockets into the area of Israel and has caused civilians to die. The situation for them is real and much more important than ours when it comes to a bit of money. If the U.S. denied aid to them simply because ""it costs too much"", why is the alternative of a weaker Israel the better option? Con needs to show that the money spent helping their military isn't worth it in order to make their point. This is like saying that donating to charity is a bad idea because it takes money out of people's pockets. [1] https://freedomhouse.org... [2] https://freedomhouse.org... [3] https://www.nytimes.com..."	PRO	779
779	S9873a24d-A93001043	Affirmative Action (when used in the college application process) is a bad policy.	Please extend my case to the next round.	PRO	780
780	S9873a24d-A3beba890	Affirmative Action (when used in the college application process) is a bad policy.	Please extend my arguments to the final round. If anyone is interested in debating this topic with me, please let me know.	PRO	781
781	S9873a24d-A51541f52	Affirmative Action (when used in the college application process) is a bad policy.	I'll give it a shot, 5 rounds or bust	CON	782
782	S9873a24d-A5eea588f	Affirmative Action (when used in the college application process) is a bad policy.	Please extend my case, again. I hope all is well with my opponent.	PRO	783
783	S5d50491e-Acf3fe125	The US Federal Goveronment should abolish 99%of its functions	My opponent completely drops his arguments in regards to the constitution. Until he responds he has conceded that point. It also appears that he has dropped my points about the debt. All he does is assert “The government should pay off its debt with all deliberate time” sans justification. Then goes onto claim we could do it. It seems my opponent has dropped his entire positive case. Abolishment of Government Pro starts off by stating we need the government because men cannot govern themselves and we need to be able to defend ourselves from foreign invaders. Along with asking how could education be funded. All of these argument fail to justify the state’s existence. His first attempted justification starts with a straw man. My argument about moral authority has absolutely nothing to do with the ability to recognize natural law at all. The very first sentence of my argument states that it’s dealing with the lack of moral authority of government, nothing else. He then argues that humans aren’t fundamentally good and that we need government to enforce laws. First, this argument is self refuting, as it fails to understand the government itself is made up of humans. If humans are too immoral to govern themselves, then how would putting a select few in charge of others magically change their nature? The argument boils down to “Men cannot govern, which is why we need men to govern”. It is humans that make the laws and it is humans that carry out the enforcement, any statement about human nature will necessarily apply to the lawmakers and enforcers. If Pro is correct that humans are no angels, is it really wise to provide a select few of devils with power over others? Second, this argument is asserted with no justification to back it up. He merely appeals to James Madison’s authority and cites some Islamic bombing. I’m not exactly sure what bombings prove, as it’s clear governments didn’t stop said atrocities either. Third, such argument is contradicted by sociology. Human nature is crafted by the society and culture in which one lives. Take for example the Semai culture. The Semai culture exists purely on cooperation and possesses no government structure, yet “little violence occurs within Semai society. Violence, in fact, seems to terrify the Semai. A Semai does not meet force with force, but with passivity or flight. Yet, he has no institutionalized way of preventing violence — no social controls, no police or courts. Somehow a Semai learns automatically always to keep tight rein over his aggressive impulses.” [1] The only threat to their culture of nonviolence was due to British colonialism [2]. This shows human nature isn’t inherently violent, but caused due to the society in which we exist. An anarchist society based on cooperation and solidarity will foster those values in human nature. This is also evident by the fact humans exist. Humans are social beings. It wouldn’t be beneficial to always be in competition with others. What happens when said person needs help? How would this individual pass on their genes if said genes are predisposed to rejecting cooperation? Fourth, the argument assumes there is something magical about centralization in regards to enforcement of laws. In an anarchist society, we would have a horizontal structure. No man over another, one where decisions are decided by everyone in a decentralized fashion. Instead of laws, we would have rules according to the local commune in which one lives. Why would someone disobey a rule that they themselves agreed to enact? If one is speaking about murder and the like, then it can still be handled in a decentralized way. However, we must keep in mind that many of the social attributes that cause crime will be eliminated in an anarchist society, as hierarchy would be abolished in favor of maximizing freedom and equality. The next argument Pro brings up is the question of how we would defend ourselves. Again he is assuming there is something special about centralization. Anarchism is against hierarchical coercive authority, not organization. During an event such as a foreign invasion the people would organize themselves into a bottom-up defensive force. As Malatesta writes [3] “But, by all means, let us admit that the governments of the still unemancipated countries were to want to, and could, attempt to reduce free people to a state of slavery once again. Would this people require a government to defend itself? To wage war men are needed who have all the necessary geographical and mechanical knowledge, and above all large masses of the population willing to go and fight. A government can neither increase the abilities of the former nor the will and courage of the latter. And the experience of history teaches us that a people who really want to defend their own country are invincible: and in Italy everyone knows that before the corps of volunteers (anarchist formations) thrones topple, and regular armies composed of conscripts or mercenaries disappear.” There have been cases where militias model themselves very close to this structure, such as the “Revolutionary Insurrectionary Army of Ukraine”. “The insurgent army did not stand above the population and give them orders. Peasants organized themselves from the bottom up, without a state. The RIAU had no monopoly on legitimate violence. All these militias did was defend their communities from people attempting to impose a state on them. The RIAU did not enforce the rule of anyone over the rest of the population. Its’ purpose was to prevent any group of people from imposing their rule over anyone else”. This army was very successful in repelling enemies such as the white army, but fell only due to betrayal by the Bolsheviks and not enough resources [ibid]. But such things wouldn’t be a problem for the US, with its amount of resources and industrialization. Indeed, a centralized army has many downsides. For one, it is at the beck and call of an authority. If such authority believes it is profitable to take land and resources, then it can use its army in an oppressive way. As is what happens too often today. His next question is about the funding of education. If we absolutely must keep capitalism, education can be funded through charities. It would be very very beneficial for education to be funded, as the children would be the future working class. If we are to open our minds to post-capitalist structures, then such a thing wouldn’t be a problem. Wage labor would either be radically changed or abolished, making the question of funding is trivial. He states keeping government functions will cause the economy to grow, however this is asserted with no evidence. It also doesn’t take into account that economic growth doesn’t necessarily correspond to the well being of its citizens. Pro then says the government could easily make a constitutional amendment that would limit its power. However, the constitution according to Pro already limited the government’s power and look what good that did. The amendments would be put in place by the government, what’s to stop them adding another that grants it a little more power? I find all of Pro’s reasons for accepting a small government faulty. Abolishing only 99% of its functions is ineffective and doesn’t maximize freedom as much as going all the way. Total abolishment has been upheld as the best way to go. Sources [1] Robert K. Dentan, The Semai: A Nonviolent People of Malaya. New York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 1979, p. 59. [2] https://cas.uab.edu... [3] Malatesta, E., & Richards, V. (n.d.). Anarchy. Pp 40-41 [4] http://www.nestormakhno.info...	CON	784
784	S3fddff1-A5fc2405	Scream at the sky day or what ever its called is useless	"Regarding the definition of democracy, from Merriam Webster online dictionary: 1 a : government by the people; especially : rule of the majority b : a government in which the supreme power is vested in the people and exercised by them directly or indirectly through a system of representation usually involving periodically held free elections [1] Definition 1b applies to the United States, since in the United States ""supreme power is vested in the people and exercised by them [...] indirectly through a system of representation."" As far as ""not bringing good attention,"" it's worth noting that this objection could be made to most protests. People don't generally view the protesters per se positively. The point is to get people talking about the problems with Trump's administration. 33,000 people are interested in the event on Facebook [2], so there must be some people who view this activity positively. Pro is clearly not a liberal (he writes ""liberal holidays seem useless""), so he wouldn't view nearly anything that liberals did positively, but people sympathetic to the goals of the protesters won't view their actions as merely stupid like he does. They will realize that scream at the sky day is intended somewhat humorously. [1] https://www.merriam-webster.com... [2] https://www.inquisitr.com..."	CON	785
785	Sb1603109-Ae49e3484	"Supporting Ron Paul is a fad and considered ""cool"" by college students."	"My apologies if I sounded sarcastic and condescending. When I suggesting that you might enjoy a Ron Paul rally, I was merely trying to inject some light-hearted humor into the conversation, but I forgot that I am bad at those types of jokes and that they often get lost in text fourm. My bad. artC: ""It's very respectable to run as a third party but everyone who understand the election system knows that the chances of a third party candidate being elected are slim if not nonexistent."" Reply: But your point was that peopole will quit caring about Ron Paul after he loses because it won't be cool anymore, but you are wrong because if Ron Paul does lose the primaries, people will still care and want him to run. Me: ""Loving Ron Paul is a gimmick? How is it any more of a gimmick then ""Vote for this guy because he has values?"" Values is just a buzz word to get Christians excited. Last time I checked, not to many Ron Paul supporters were hippies, although some are."" ArtC: You are completely missing my point. Reply: If you are going to call the ""love"" in revolution a gimmick, then by your definitions, any political bannar or logo is a ""gimmick."" Obama having an American flag in his O is a gimmick. Isn't that exploiting the jingonistic tendencies of American voters? Me: ""No, when Mitt Romney says he wants to make strong families, that is a feeling issue because there is no way for the government to force you to be a closer family. But people have strong emotions about families and morality, so to be pro-family sounds good, but when you prod it, it says nothing. Are you pro-family? It's like saying, ""Do you support the troops?"" or ""Do you support the people of Iowa?"" Well, I don't know anyone from Iowa, but these whole campaigns are ran basically on mindless slogans like that."" You: Again, completely missing my point. Reply: No, because I was distinguishing how issues Ron Paul brings up in debates are not just mindless slogans like other candidates. There is actually some thought that has to go into processing what Ron Paul is saying. So I don't ""feel"" these issues are important, I know they are by reasoning. You: ""I am a Barack Obama supporter and I could give you a long list of why. I have put a lot of money into his campaign and volunteer through the grassroots committee. I actually like Joe Biden and Dennis Kucinich better but I'm realistic and choose to back a candidate who has a real shot at winning. I think it's silly for people to back Ron Paul, not only because he wont win,"" Reply: The lesser of two evils is still evil. And the enemy of my enemy is not my friend. Barry Goldwater didn't really have a chance to beat Lyndon Johnson, but he did plant the seeds for a conservative movement that came full swing with Regean, and has since, at least in my opinion, died-off. I think if Ron Paul can cause some comotion in the primaries, he could do something similar. Plus, you can never be sure who is going to win. Jimmy Carter came out of no where in the primaries to be president. And to say you arn't going to vote for a candidate is circular reasoning implemented by the establishment media who serve as the gate keepers of our society. We aren't going to vote for this candidate because he won't win, and he won't win because we won't vote for him. He is an A B'er because he B's A. Even if Ron Paul does lose this battle, the war of ideas will go on forever. artc: ""but because in my opinion he is actually bad for this country and the world. He's against the war and that's great, he wants gold backing our money, and that's good. BUT he wants to denationalize schools! No thanks."" Reply: I would say this is his best quality, but that is another debate. artc: ""I would also never ever vote for someone who wants to keep people searching for a better life out of this country and then spend MY tax dollars to send them back to our neighbor country that we do nothing to help."" Reply: He isn't against immigration per se, just that our welfare state serves as a magnate for immigrants, which strains our system. Unlimited unqualified immigration and a massive welfare state can not co-exist, it is just a constrain of reality. artc: I could say so much more but it doesn't matter because I respect your choice to vote for whomever you see fit for the presidency. Reply: Same here. Good luck to you, well done."	CON	786
786	Sde2ed754-A5d68ef76	The U.S. Federal Government should increase its exploration and/or development of space	"*My first debate here so bare with me* I would like to pose several questions for my opponent: - Would you go so far as to say the U.S should do away with space exploration and never consider it again? - Are you debating against the idea of space exploration/research as a whole(As in all the nations) or just the United States' involvement with the endeavor? By this I mean are you saying that the U.S. should cease to ever get involved or ""step up"" it's participation in extrasolar exploration? My opening thoughts and comments: - Should the U.S allow other nations to surpass it in this field? - Isn't the technology and knowledge acquired worth the costs? I think space exploration is the next logical step in the human endeavor. We are an exploratory species with philosophical differences that have been getting slightly better over the centuries with some low points and high points. The trials of a space program unite and inspire not just a country, but the entire world. Science done in space and potentially other worlds could lead to wonderful technologies that could improve the lives of people on Earth, and the overall condition of the planet."	PRO	787
787	Se9199f6b-Ad036ab37	Science loses its privileged place at the centre of the universe as a privileged knower- we now have	"Pro argues that I have not refuted his thesis. He did not dispute my initial interpretation of his thesis, which indicates that it was correct. My interpretation of his thesis, as I have demonstrated in P5 of the last round, is simply a restatement of solipsism. That is: the insufficient precision of language prevents us from ""knowing"" the universe. Epistemological solipsism states that we cannot know the world. All we have, in either case, is our mental construction of our own experiences. Since we cannot ""know"", if Pro is correct, then we cannot prove. As pro has accepted the burden of proof, if he is correct, he cannot fulfill his obligation, and pro has lost. If pro is incorrect and, as I have argued, words can accurately express the ideas necessary to accurately represent the universe through the creation of new words to represent novel and innovative ideas, then Pro has lost. In either event, pro has lost. It is also worth noting that Pro has introduced no actual evidence of his own, instead relying on his original conjecture appeal to authority. As he has introduced no proof to support this conjecture beyond said appeal, he has necessarily failed in his obligation to prove his point."	CON	788
788	S5d50491e-A9e92702a	The US Federal Goveronment should abolish 99%of its functions	"""The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people."" - The Tenth Ammendment Here are the powers given to the Federal Goveronment in the constitution under Article 1 Section 8: 1. To borrow Money on the credit of the United States; 2. To regulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and among the several States, and with the Indian Tribes; 3. To establish an uniform Rule of Naturalization, and uniform Laws on the subject of Bankruptcies throughout the United States; 4. To coin Money, regulate the Value thereof, and of foreign Coin, and fix the Standard of Weights and Measures; 5. To provide for the Punishment of counterfeiting the Securities and current Coin of the United States; 6. To establish Post Offices and post Roads; 7. To promote the Progress of Science and useful Arts, by securing for limited Times to Authors and Inventors the exclusive Right to their respective Writings and Discoveries; 8. To define and punish Piracies and Felonies committed on the high Seas, and Offences against the Law of Nations; 9. To declare War, grant Letters of Marque and Reprisal, and make Rules concerning Captures on Land and Water; 10. To raise and support Armies, but no Appropriation of Money to that Use shall be for a longer Term than two Years; 11. To provide and maintain a Navy; 12. To make Rules for the Government and Regulation of the land and naval Forces; 13. To provide for calling forth the Militia to execute the Laws of the Union, suppress Insurrections and repel Invasions; 14. To provide for organizing, arming, and disciplining, the Militia, and for governing such Part of them as may be employed in the Service of the United States, reserving to the States respectively, the Appointment of the Officers, and the Authority of training the Militia according to the discipline prescribed by Congress; 15. To make all Laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying into Execution the foregoing Powers, and all other Powers vested by this Constitution in the Government of the United States, or in any Department or Officer thereof. By ""powers,"" I meant goveronment programs, so the constitution says that the goveronment should have the powers listed above and no others. Of these the only goveronment program approved of is defense spending, so we should pass a constitutional ammendment permitting the goveronment to fund education thenleave it at that, and give the rest to the states. Then there is the argument of the balanced budget, if we eliminated all goveronment programs but increase defense spending to 750 billion, and reduce education to 250 billion, but reform our education system to be like Finlands, spending 5,000$ per child annualy, and spend 50 billion in goveronment expenses annualy, then our total budget will be 1.05 trillion. if we allot 225 billion toward the intrest on the debt, we will spend 1.275 billion annualy. We then reduce the income tax to 25.2%, giving us revenue of 4.025 trillion, and a surplus of 2.75 trillion, allowing us to pay the debt off in 8 years. After which we reduce the income tax to only 6.6%, giving us a balanced budget of 1.05 trillion exactly equal to our revenue. This being based on a GDP of 16 trillion."	PRO	789
789	S4338d37-A784dc801	Christianity and its Validity	"I'm here from your argument ""How can you be an atheist?"". I'm interested in this topic and would like to debate it. I'm coming from a purely clinical point of view here, as I have never been religious, in any way, shape, or form. I was raised in an atheist household, but my exposure to religion has been quite adequate to debate this. I have read the Bible in its entirety, as well as several other religious texts (The Qur'an, the Tanakh), and have read the myths of Gilgamesh, the creation stories of ancient pagan religions, etc. I have compared the ideals listed in these tomes and have come to a simple and elegant conclusion: All religion is the same. I've lived my life based on this ideal, recognizing that religion was invented for one of two reasons under some name or another. The reasons are these: Firstly, religions were created for comfort, reassurance, and a simple code by which leaders could ensure that their laws were being followed (often enforced by threat of a ""hell"" or promise of a ""heaven""). The secondary reason links to that and takes it a step further--Religion was invented as a form of mind-control. The reason it's so effective is that people by nature long for something to believe in, particularly if that something tells them that they have protection under the almighty hand of an omniscient being. I also support my own atheism with the typical argument of non-believers: Where is the proof? Why should I have faith in something I cannot see when the values associated with said imaginary deity are disproved by things I can see? Why should I disregard my own knowledge and education for the sake of ""faith""? I hope you accept this argument. I think it could be, for lack of a better word, enlightening. My rules are simple. No fallacies of any kind, particularly Ad Hominem. It dulls a debate, and distracts from the topic at hand. Do not try to convert me, and I'll play nice too. I can easily tear your religion apart, but as long as we agree to a friendly debate, I promise I won't. I look forward to your reply. -Milo"	CON	790
790	Sd70f9b95-A4ff04d2a	Xbox One's downsides outweigh its benefits	I will show that Xbox One has a lot of features that make it a good console at launch and I will also show that concerns about the Xbox One DRM are not going to translate to an actual bad experience for the early buyers of the console or into a massive sway towards PS4 or other platforms. XO has good day one and launch titles not coming ever or soon to other platforms[XO_exclusives]: day one: Ryse: Son of Rome, Dead Rising 3, Forza 5, Killer Instinct; launch window: Titanfall, Halo, Quantum Break, Project Spark. That is besides the better visuals and the countless other games coming to the platform that would differentiate it from any other platform except PS4 and high end PC. XO also is a good platform to develop for, having adopted an x86 CPU with similar performance to PS4[simple_xbox_hardware]. Microsoft is also a lot more experienced in creating development tools than Sony as John Carmack has said in the past[xbox_tools_better]. This means that developers will find it easy to develop for XO and the other platforms will not gain an edge in this regard. I will present an example of huge internet backlash that has not influenced most buyer's and players opinion about a game. The game is Battlefield Heroes that launched with a free to play with an item store. It later increased it's prices beyond most players ability to purchase most items for use from an hour's worth of gameplay daily. That created a huge backlash on the internet at the time. But the players continued to play the game and revenues increased to sustain the continued operation of the game[backlash_fallacies]. XO is also coming at the same time as it's primary rival the PS4[XO_on_time_launch]. It will not be at a disadvantage like the PS3 that launched with a year's worth of games less. One platform registering a lot of growth is the mobile platform. Resale of apps in the Iphone App Store and the Android Marketplace are completely forbidden as opposed to XO which has a better policy in this regard[mobile_apps_non_resalable]. That has not stopped the release of games far more expensive than the 99 cent usual price on mobile. As we speak there is confidence by PC gamers in DRM done right. The platform of choice for many PC gamers that buy their games digitally is Steam. It has a strict DRM policy of 'phoning' home every two weeks[steam_drm_now]. At launch it had to deal with a backlash in the media about that restriction of not playing your games when you are not connected to the internet. By comparison when there was news about Dark Souls coming to PC a community of potential buyers appeared to back the Steam platform instead of the Windows Live platform of digital distribution[dark_souls_pro_steam_petition]. Microsoft's Xbox One will live or die by the quality of the DRM in XO, so they will push the quality assurance of the DRM involved to much higher levels than what was going on in Windows Live. They also have an experience in running the Xbox Live and Windows Live platforms for a very long time now, like Valve had with Steam in the above example. Like Windows 7 was a stable platform compared to Windows Vista, so should Xbox One be a stable platform without major issues at launch that would transform the initial media backlash into a secondary disaster confirmation backlash when the console actually launches and ends up in actual customer usage[microsoft_learns_from_experience]. [XO_exclusives] http://www.geek.com... [XO_on_time_launch] http://www.theverge.com... [simple_xbox_hardware] https://en.wikipedia.org... [xbox_tools_better] http://arstechnica.com... [backlash_fallacies] http://www.joystiq.com... [mobile_apps_non_resalable] http://www.avvo.com... [steam_drm_now] http://steamcommunity.com... [dark_souls_pro_steam_petition] https://www.change.org... [microsoft_learns_from_experience] http://apcmag.com...	CON	791
791	S4338d37-A58d91f4f	Christianity and its Validity	"Some of your questions are put in such poor grammatical form that it's difficult for me to perceive what you're asking, but I'll do my best to decode your speech. First: To what are you referring? Second: Gods were created from a number of sources but the ability to use the ""authority of god"" to justify unjust actions was always a plus for rulers. They could use deities as simple pawns. For example, ancient Egypt comes to mind--The pharaohs quite literally identified themselves as gods, forcing people to worship them as such. Of course, this obvious and heavy-handed approach didn't work particularly well, but rulers found much more subtle methods of bending the devout to their will. Seeing as you didn't specify a third, fourth: If you perfectly well could find evidence, please do so. You took on this debate. I don't particularly care if you don't have the time. Moving on, I never questioned the existence of Jesus as a person, simply his holy authority, so to speak. And there are other sources from the bible that attest to his life, so honestly, using the bible was quite unnecessary, particularly as this is an argument contesting the validity of the book. You're using the exact definition of circular reasoning. ""The bible is right because the bible says so,"" will not be accepted in this debate. Give me something to work with, this tripe is hardly worth responding to. And yes, I do need evidence that God created the universe. Why? Because there is proof to the contrary. If you cannot provide proof for the issue, I'm inclined to support the theory that has evidence, no offense. Fifth: To begin, I'll use a quote from the bible. ""But now ask the beasts to teach you, and the birds of the air to tell you; or the reptiles on the earth to instruct you, and the fish of the sea to inform you. Which of all these does not know that the hand of God has done this? In his hand is the soul of every living thing, and the life breath of all mankind.""(Job 12:7-10) This passage quite clearly shows that animals are aware that god has created them, according to the bible at least. Like so many passages in the bible, this contradicts some of its own teachings. I'll add another verse now: ""The living creatures give glory, honor and thanks to him who sits on the throne"" (Revelation 4:8-9) This indicates that animals do praise god. However, many of the sins listed in the bible are also present in the animal population. Not to be crude, but I worked at Zoo Atlanta for two years, and more than once I've seen primates pleasuring themselves. I've also seen animals display homosexual behavior. Good luck."	CON	792
792	S105b8a3c-A77e5bd5e	The USFG should universalize its healthcare system.	"To rehash my ideas, here's a list of reasons: • Poorer quality doctors • Poorer quality care • Longer wait times • High taxes • Government Empowerment • Personal Freedoms lost • Reduced efficiency • Profit motive and competition will be lost • Government mandates will reduce doctors flexibility • People who chose to risk their health (smoking/drinking/drugs) will be discriminated • Subsidized incentives for MD grads will make income taxes higher still • Eliminate privacy • Bureaucratic monopsony • May lead to outlawing your right to private care • If private care is outlawed in the States, citizens won't have anywhere to go for immediate treatment even if they're willing to pay • Evidence shows single payer-insurance programs costs exceed the expectations of its advocates • Empowers the government to be able to say: ""if you keep smoking, we'll deny you coverage."" This takes away freedom in the form of the choice to smoke, eat, or drink as you please. • Over time, UHC will be seen as not a social program, but as a right. This will make it near impossible to remove the program down the road when costs get out of control •Will hurt the economy (less money in the pockets of patrons, loss of insurance jobs and businesses closing) Also, take some of these figures into consideration as well: The majority of the 40 million (out of our pop. of nearly 330 million) uninsured in America either do not feel like its worth the money to invest in, or they choose not to work & therefore cannot afford it. There are also some who are temporarily between jobs and haven't had their benefits kick in yet & they are counted as uninsured. Yes, there are some who work & want to afford it but can't, this number is somewhere in the realm of 9 million.Yes 9 million out of our 330 million people are uninsured, that's about 3% of the population. Don't let the numbers fool you into thinking that a huge percentage of the population is unable to get health care, it simply isn't true. Therefore, the other 97% should not be forced into changing our ways for 3% of the population, especially when it means more money out of pocket and worse medical care for the majority of us. To help these folks, there needs to be better private charities. Also, the government needs to give better tax benefits to people who donate to these charities, so more people will do it. Inspire people to help the needy by receiving incentives from the government, not helping by letting the government control everyone in an extremely personal way. Thanks for the debate (or lack thereof)."	CON	793
793	S1db3eaf8-A8931d14c	Maintaining a system of free university education leads to an inefficient allocation of state resources.	While there will of course be people who do not try to get the most out of their university educations, what matters is that everyone has access to it. It is a fair trade between inefficiencies created by inattentive students and diligent students who would have lacked the facility to attend without it being free. More degree­holders thus do not automatically diminish the value of having degrees; they make the grades gained and degree subject more important.  	CON	794
794	S3d30da9-A29dad1ac	The United States Government ought to provide Universal Healthcare for its Citizens	First off, I would like to say that even before Thaddeus posted any of his rounds, I posted in the comments section (I forgot to include in my R1) that it has to be in LD format. Go check if you want. I would like to say AGAIN, that Thaddeus has not presented a case himself. I had given him another opportunity if I hadn't made myself clear enough the last round. One last note I would like to make is that my opponent hasn't made a single argument on all of Contention 1 itself. It is just too late now. Now I will begin with my case. The United States should support it's moral obligation by supporting morality. The word ought stated in the resolution denotes a undeniable moral obligation. Therefore to not take up the policy of universal health care would be amoral and would be unjust. This also means that by not supporting the policy of universal health care we are not promoting morality which is what the nation is about. In the end it's a matter of people living longer and healthier lives meanwhile being equal in health care. Or using a old system which continues to perpetuate the disparity in which the rich receive health care at a higher quality than those who work hard every single day who cannot afford it. Think about the people who have genetic, hereditary, and unavoidable diseases. They can't do anything about that fact, and their health deteriorates. When this happens, they are unable to work and provide themselves with any money for the doctors. When Thaddeus states that he is correct to concede my debate, he is inadvertently saying that he agrees with my debate. Keep this in mind, Judge. Some people have less opportunity to acquire health care. In this system, those with the best opportunity to get jobs with adequate benefits (or be able to afford them themselves) are those who can afford a college education and have access to transportation and child care. Cycles of poverty arguably mean that individuals that are structurally disadvantaged will be unable to access adequate care. Slowly, over time, leading to the down fall of society. Other people have less opportunity to be healthy than others. Those born with congenital illnesses or who acquire ill health via circumstances outside their control may not be able to access affordable care because they are costlier to insure (insurers know they’ll likely need lots of expensive care so they charge them more or refuse to cover them). Inability to sacrifice for the common good is destructive to society and community. Institutionalinzing the principle of sacrificing for the good of others and the community, according to some scholars, breeds solidarity which enhances the ethical foundations of a society. Unhealthy people harm everyone because they drain emergency resources and lower productivity. Without access to health care, people will get sicker, faster. These individuals will then show up at emergency rooms to receive routine care (increasing wait times for everyone) or only once their condition has deteriorated to a point where it can no longer be treated. They will also miss work or drop out of the workforce at higher rates. These are the major reasons why the United States Government ought to provide Universal Health Care for its Citizens. All in all, If health care is not provided, the citizens will get sicker and as a result the economy will suffer. I hope I have made myself clear enough Thaddeus. It cannot get clearer than this from a 14-year old. My opponent has not given me a straight answer to my first question. I would like to say that it is NOT in any way moral for many millions of Americans to die simply because they have genetic and untreatable diseases and are too ill to work and make money. More working citizens equals a better and healthier society; UHC will also help get us out of this recession we are currently in. It is not their fault that they are contracting the certain disease, and they can't do anything to avoid it. For my second question, he states that as long as there is a readily available doctor, he is fine. In other words, if there are more doctors, we all will get our treatments faster. By saying this, he is agreeing with me. In the Universal Health Care System, there will be more doctors to treat the patients who are suffering. Now I will go on to defend whatever he has said about my case: Contention 1: At the time that the United States was formed, everyone helped each other. And this is what set the bases of the US Goverment. His arguments about cars is irrelevant because we are talking about the basic neccesity of life. While having one's own car would be nice, it is not a neccesity like life is. When he talks about UHC in the UK, that is also irrelevant. Because as you see, the topic, listed many many times, is about the United States. Not UK. And as for his link. That was dated in 2009, and several things in the economy have changed from that time. So I deem that link, once again, irrelevant. Contention 2: Okay, I see where my opponent is headed. But in this link, http://www.phoenix.edu..., a bussinessman and doctor explain why they think that a free-market economy is not anti-capitalist. Take a look at it for yourself. Read paragraphs 2-5, 7, and 9. It has all the answers as to why a free-market is not at all anti-capitalist Contention 3: Again, con is trying to prove say he is right by arguing with items that most humans WANT. Key word; want. A car, PS3, and the need for prostitutes (on a side note; why??) are all wants, however weird they may be. Getting health care is the difference between life and death. And the more working class citizens the United States has, the easier and earlier that we will get out of this recession we are currently in. I have refuted all my opponents arguments on my case. On basis of the proof above, affirm the resolution that The United States Government ought to provide Universal Healthcare for its Citizens. The ball is now in Con's court. Thank you.	PRO	795
795	Sc7831446-A8931d14c	Maintaining a system of free university education leads to an inefficient allocation of state resources.	While there will of course be people who do not try to get the most out of their university educations, what matters is that everyone has access to it. It is a fair trade between inefficiencies created by inattentive students and diligent students who would have lacked the facility to attend without it being free. More degree­holders thus do not automatically diminish the value of having degrees; they make the grades gained and degree subject more important.  	CON	796
796	Sed52489a-A77d4ddc6	Wide university education produces a literate, multi-skilled and widely knowledgeable nation	The more people who attend university, the more widely read the nation becomes, and the more culturally diverse. It is important for young people to be widely read and educated in order to enhance their artistic and cultural appreciation. Where else can one get this if not university? Those who end up ruling the country are the ones that went to university. The democratic process does not work. It would be foolish for poorer people to not pursue a path that allows them at least a chance of being part of the power system. Being a plumber, while useful, is no way to do that. For an able youngster, it would be unwise to forgo a likelihood of a good future simply to avoid debt.	PRO	797
797	S5751e75f-A304c85ee	India treats its minorities better than Pakistan	"Religious, historical and sociocultural factors have helped define the bounds of endogamous groups for Muslims in South Asia, the Middle East and other parts of world. There is a preference for endogamous marriages based on the clan-oriented nature of the society, which values and actively seeks similarities in social group identity based on several factors, including religious, sectarian, ethnic, and tribal/clan affiliation. Religious affiliation is itself multi-layered and includes religious considerations other than being Muslim, such as sectarian identity (e.g. Shia or Sunni, etc.) and religious orientation within the sect (Ithnā""ashariyyah, Ismaili). Both ethnic affiliation (e.g. Sindhi, Baloch, Punjabi, etc.) and membership of specific Biraderis or Jat/Quoms (see Jatis) are additional integral components of social identity. Within the bounds of endogamy defined by the above parameters, close consanguineous unions are preferred due to a congruence of key features of group- and individual-level background factors as well as affinities.The social stratification among Muslims in the ""Swat"" area of North Pakistan has been meaningfully compared to the Caste system in India. The society is rigidly divided into subgroups where each Quom is assigned a profession. Different Quoms are not permitted to intermarry or live in the same community. These Muslims practice a ritual-based system of social stratification. The Quoms who deal with human emissions are ranked the lowest.Stephen M. Lyon of University of Kent has written about what he calls ""Gujarism"", the act of Gurjars in Pakistan seeking out other Gurjars to form associations, and consolidate ties with them, based strictly on caste affiliation. This is just to tell my honourable opponent that caste is a social problem in South Asia not restricted to Hindus. Furthermore I'd like to add that the Indian Constitution was majorly written by a Dalit, Dr Ambedkar. While the situation of the caste system in India is still undoubtedly a problem I'd like to add that the Indian Prime Minister Mr Narendra Modi is himself from a lower caste. India has taken many measure for the protection of Lower Castes which mainly includes reservation. Reservation in India is the process of setting aside a certain percentage of seats (vacancies) in government institutions for members of backward and under-represented communities (defined primarily by caste and tribe). Reservation is a form of quota-based affirmative action. Reservation is governed by constitutional laws, statutory laws, and local rules and regulations. Scheduled Castes (SC), Scheduled Tribes (ST) and Other Backward Classes (OBC) are the primary beneficiaries of the reservation policies under the Constitution "" with the object of ensuring a ""level"" playing field.The reservation system has received a mixed response from Indians since its inception. It has been praised for diminishing the gap between the upper and lower castes by allowing the latter to enjoy the further increased opportunities as the former in jobs, education and governance by allotting seats exclusively for them. It has also been criticised for discouraging a merit-based system and encouraging vote bank politics. Opponents of the reservation system claim that it reaffirms discrimination on the basis of caste. Some opponents also believe that the reservation system is essentially against the fundamental right to Equality. Allegations of Reverse discrimination are also heard of in public debates on the issue. In Case of the Union government this stands at 15% for SCs (which includes Dalits), 7.5% for Scheduled Tribes, 27% for Other Backward Classes with the total Constitutional Reservation standing at 49.5% with the others General (Open to all including SC/ST and OBC) 50.5%. In India most of the scholarships or student aid is available only for OBC's,SC,ST,BC, Women, Minorities & Muslims. As per Rediff Labs, only 0.7% of scholarships or student aid in India is based on merit. Furthermore even Pakistan divides its Hindus on the basis of Jati and scheduled caste. A common form of past discrimination in India was the practice of untouchability. Scheduled Castes (SCs) are the primary targets of the practice, which is outlawed by the Constitution of India. An untouchable person is considered ""impure or a lowly human.""During the Vedic period, the varna system was used. However, it was possibly based on the profession one chose rather than based on the birth[citation needed]. Also, it was possibly not elitist during the vedic times. Implying, all castes were considered equals. The system consisted of four ranked varnas. A person's varna was defined by his or her socio-economic duties (broadly classified into four classes or Varnas). These duties were either voluntarily performed or were assigned by the local administrator""one's varna was initially not defined by one's birth into any particular family. However, over the centuries, the system has changed to caste based on the person born in the linage than by his karma or profession. The primary stated objective of the Indian reservation system is to increase the opportunities for enhanced social and educational status of the underprivileged communities and thus uplift their lifestyle to have their place in the mainstream of Indian society. The reservation system exists to provide opportunities for the members of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribess to increase their political representation in the State Legislatures, the Executive Organ of the Union (Centre) and States, the labour force, schools, colleges, and other public institutions.The Constitution of India states in article 16(4): ""Nothing in [article 16] or in clause (2) of article 29 shall prevent the State from making any special provision for the advancement of any socially and educationally backward classes of citizens or for the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes."" Article 46 of the Constitution states that ""The State shall promote with special care the educational and economic interests of the weaker sections of the people, and, in particular, of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes, and shall protect them from social injustice and all forms of exploitation.""Today, out of 543 seats in India's parliament, 84 (18.42%) are reserved for SC/Dalits and 47 (8.66%)for ST/Tribes. Allocation of seats for Scheduled Castes and Tribes in the Lok Sabha are made on the basis of proportion of Scheduled Castes and Tribes in the State concerned to that of the total population, vide provision contained in Article 330 of the Constitution of India read with Section 3 of the R. P. Act, 1950.In 1982, the Constitution specified 15% and 7.5% of vacancies in public sector and government-aided educational institutes as a quota reserved for the SC and ST candidates respectively for a period of five years, after which the quota system would be reviewed.[10] This period was routinely extended by the succeeding governments. The Supreme Court of India ruled that reservations could not exceed 50% (which it judged would violate equal access guaranteed by the Constitution) and put a cap on reservations.However, there are state laws that exceed this 50% limit and these are under litigation in the Supreme Court. For example, the caste-based reservation stands at 69% and the same is applicable to about 87% of the population in the State of Tamil Nadu. In 1990, Prime Minister V. P. Singh announced that 27% of government positions would be set aside for OBCs in addition to the 22.5% already set aside for the SCs and STs. In some states Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra reservation even exceeds 50%. This shows the commitment of the Indian Government that isn't present in the case of Pakistan. Dalit Politicians like Mayawati, Fmr. CM of UP also enjoy popular support. The Current Vice President of India is a Muslim. Moreover it is worth adding that the famous Bollywood of India considers the Three KHANS as its stars."	PRO	798
798	Sf4a16d9-A611daa03	If you accept its ok to eat a chicken you must also accept some cases of cannibalism are ok	"Cannibalism will be defined as the consumption of the flesh of the same species. All humans includes retarded humans, some of which are mentally worse off than animals. So if we eat animals it must also be right to eat some humans. If it is right to eat some humans this means cannibalism must be accepted by those that accept eating animals. All retarded humans have to be seen as superior to animals as if just one was not that would show that cannibalism is not wrong in all cases. I shall address several arguments that could be given to show that the mentally disabled are superior to animals and why they fail. A common argument many would give is not really an argument at all. Many people claim that someone of moral value is just anyone human. Midgely sums up my take on this well, ""I think this is a very natural view but not actually a true one."" However, this is a view inconsistent with several common beliefs. Religious carnivores would not claim God to be human yet still maintain he is of moral value. Also most would feel uncomfortable with such a theory that necessarily excluded aliens with equal or superior mental capacities from ourselves if they were to be discovered. Another problem with taking such a stance is the fact that we are constantly evolving. Humans today are different, albeit subtly, from humans 2000 years ago and its only because our taxonomic wording lacks preciseness that we are not classed differently from our ancestors. Those who assert human superiority must believe there was a point in history when the first member of the human species was born to parents not advanced enough to be classified as human. When it was born we could not know it was morally valuable until we observed its characteristics. We could not discover its value until we had some evidence of its level of intelliegene, emotional capacity or any other relevant characteristic. Without evidence there would be no reason to think it was any difference to its parents. If characteristics are what matters it makes sense to stick to discussing arguments surrounding them. The argument that all humans are valuable because they are endowed with souls also fails in the same way, as souls, granting they exist, may also be in animals unless we can give some evidence for this not being the case. I can see no source of this evidence that does not arise from observing characteristics. Metaphysical qualities Argument from free will? But determinism may be true"" ""One lesson to draw from this is that, if we are to postulate certain properties as the basis of our worth, they had better be properties that we demonstrably have. Accounts of the morality of respect that base our worth on certain ""metaphysical"" attributes""such as that we possess a soul, or that we have been made in the image of God, or that we are endowed with free will""are always vulnerable to the possibility, or probability, that the favored attribute is in fact illusory."" Some mentally disabled people are no better, and in some cases, worse than animals when it comes to rationality, intelligence and capacity to be moral agents. So this means these qualities cannot be used as the reason against eating them. Our capacity for morality is relative to some extent to the rationality and intelligence one possesses as one needs to understand why they should act morally. If intelligence (IS IQ MEASURE OF INTELLIGENCE?) is what is considered valuable then this cannot work as some animals such as parrots have the intelligence of a four year old. Some humans are so mentally disabled that the average four year old would be more intelligent than them. Anacephelic humans certainly cannot be seen as more intelligent or rational than most animals since they have no brain and consequently no cognitive abilities. Once we see it is misguided to think that the retarded are only valuable because they are human we have to look at whether there is any morally relevant characteristic that requires all humans be more valuable than all animals. This I will argue is not possible. Some humans have no cognitive abilities such as anencephalic humans are born with no brain. The only argument that could defend them is the argument they have souls, animals do not. This makes little sense even if we allow that souls exist. We infer that a being possesses a soul after observing their characteristics but anencephalic humans possess no characteristics that would make one believe they have a soul. And even if they did, all one need hold is that some animals demonstrate more characteristics of soul-possession than an anencephalic human. It appears that chickens have more evidence of possessing a soul than an anencephalic human which suggests they can be eaten if it is permissible to eat chickens. Characteristics of soul possession are themselves important. Here is a list of seven characteristics that could be used to show a being has a soul and also show whether that being is of moral value. 1.Rationality 2.Emotion 3.Self awareness 4.Capacity to be moral These characteristics are some of the main characteristics that one may argue that suggest a being possesses a soul. As this talk of souls reverts back to what characteristics are important then we should ignore talk of souls and just focus on whether these characteristics actually make one valuable. So, as the soul argument collapses it reveals that characteristics are important but it appears that not all humans possess these characteristics. All that we need to say is that a human exists that is cognitively worse off than all animals. We find this in the example of anencephalic humans. Therefore, one wanting to maintain their carnivorous practices has to accept that cannibalizing them is permissible and even vegans should not object to eating them as they have no characteristic that suggest they are valuable. Therefore a farm scheme using anecephelics would be permissible. If the speiciest abandons anencephalic humans their case is lost. However, it remains to ask to what degree one has to be mentally handicapped to be excluded from having moral value. It appears right to suggest that anyone mentally handicapped to the degree that they are worse off than all animals in the characteristic that we select as making one morally valuable. We do not have to pin down what characteristic but just to say that, of the possible characteristics that might be relevant, if an animal possesses it to a greater degree a human that human can be treated as we treat animals. So we could easily argue that any human that is less rational, intelligent, self-aware, emotional, moral or have less desire for future life than all animals is not morally valuable and so we should have no qualms in eating them if we eat animals. There are obviously different levels of these characteristics so exactly how much does one need to possess of these? It is difficult to draw a line but it seems that most, judging by their culinary practices, are convinced the line is drawn with any animals below it. So we can say that any human that is worse than animals is not valuable. So if we test a chimpanzee for all the possible factors like IQ and get the scores we just exclude any humans below those scores. Of course this may mean we include humans we do not as its unlikely that the line of value is drawn exactly at the point that is just enough to exclude chimps."	PRO	799
799	Se5a44cea-A4a0c0a95	The human brains, function, geography, theorem, psychology and upkeep education should be compulsory	You cant make money unless you spend money. In reality, It is fairly straightforward to understand the basic allocations of brain structures and their respective functions, for example, the prefrontal cortex in relation to decision making, the amygdala in relation to compulsive behaviour, the hippocampus and memory. If condensed into bite-sized informational chunks an understanding of how the brain affects an individuals daily life can become apparent, for example, an individual can understand what leads them to react to certain stresses in such a way, someone failing at math can understand how to strengthening areas of the brain dedicated to logic and short term memory, an artist can understand how to more potently exercise the parts of their brain dedicated to creativity, these examples contextualized are improvements in the processing of information, through the creation of new neuronal pathways. Other benefits include, increased emotional intelligence making a participant aware of their thoughts allowing them greater control, overall better quality of life for participants giving one example participants will be more prepared to deal with the problems in life in a more concise and astute manner. These types of improvements applied on a societal level will increase productivity, create more robust employees, leading to more revenue to employers creating more jobs and more innovation.	PRO	800
800	Se5a44cea-A18ac59de	The human brains, function, geography, theorem, psychology and upkeep education should be compulsory	"Do we really need all those subjects in the brain? ""human brains, function, geography, theorem, psychology"", as stated in the resolution, are certainly a lot. We don't necessarily need to know the geography of the brain. That will only help brain surgeons. Cannot we merely teach everyone the basics?"	CON	801
801	Se5a44cea-A73e17a02	The human brains, function, geography, theorem, psychology and upkeep education should be compulsory	Understand how the brain works, understand how you work. This will lead to a more self-aware population and will propel people into a state of ubiquitous enlightenment. Imagine a society based on truth, love, understanding and welfare for all.	PRO	802
802	Se5a44cea-A29582181	The human brains, function, geography, theorem, psychology and upkeep education should be compulsory	that really ain't important you know. It's a wrong comparison. If you recognize what those buildings look like and their functions, that's good. You really don't need to know that the library is to the right of the town hall, just how to recognize the difference in them, which is not exactly geography.	CON	803
803	S3a358a7-Ae6cf76e	Mankind is slowly working its way toward Utopia	"""Utopia is impossible, so it's not even worth shooting for. As long as mankind is flawed, and mankind will ALWAYS be flawed, an earthly Utopia is simply impossible"" That's what most preachers, pundits and professors will fill your head with these days. To this, I proudly say: ""BULLHOCKEY!!!"" Instead, as I look back two or three thousand years into history, and compare where we are today with where we were then... Utopia seems just around the next corner. If you're within the domain of conventional wisdom, however, I'd love to hear from you! According to Google: ""Utopia is an imagined place or state of things in which everything is perfect. The word was first used in the book Utopia (1516) by Sir Thomas More."" Sir Thomas argued that such a place could never exist, and in my opinion, he gives a poor, almost counter-intuitive description of what it would be like. So let's let our imaginations run with this. Let's take a look at the problems of the world today, and do away with them to create our Utopia of tomorrow. 1.) Mass starvation and poverty throughout much of the world. The cure? Governments which are failing the needs of their people need to become governments which meet the needs of their people. Tyrants and central planners need to be disincentivized from running their countries the way they currently do. While self-determination is largely a good thing, those leaders who abuse their powers should, for the good of mankind, be toppled. A way to accomplish this is to give current administrations a set amount of time to bring their countries up to such-and-such a standard of living. Those who can't or refuse to comply will find the collective weight of those countries who do want to attempt to establish a global Utopian ideal upon their doorstep forcing them to change. 2.) Education. Countries which are further ahead on their individual roads to Utopia need to reach out to the serfs, peons, and poor of struggling countries and inspire them not to settle for their supposed lot in life. The masses need to become optimistic. They need to become productive, which largely means they need to become educated. To this end, all countries need to defend common human rights, and invest in schools, libraries, internet infrastructure, and whatever else positively affects the subject countries. 3.) Ownership of private property is imperative. People need to believe that they are working for something tangible. As societies come closer and closer to the Utopian goal, they'll see that this becomes less and less necessary. 4.) Utopia will mean different things to different people, but insofar as it is possible, the world's movers and shakers need to provide the support and protections to each group that identifies its own form of 'social nirvana.' For instance, Utopia to Tasmanian tribesmen may be a very primitive sort of existence, while to Americans it may be a technological wonderland, etc. Mankind can create different facades on the face of these wonderlands. To a child, paradise is an amusement park, but Six Flags has a different look and feel from Disney World which is different from Knott's Berry Farm, etc. 5.) All religions should take a back seat to reason. While many religious people couldn't imagine life without their devotionals, etc., there will never be any peace on earth as long as billions of people are squabbling over the relative truths and falsehoods among their wholly unprovable religious claptrap. Religion is philosophical baggage of a most tedious sort which needs to be tossed overboard as soon as the opportunity affords itself. Secular humanists need to press home their arguments for a better life through reason. 6.) Although we call it Utopia, there will still be sickness, and people accidentally slipping on the ice, or improperly wired devices starting house fires, etc. But nanotechnology and other advancements may aid in stamping out the most common illnesses, while weather control may help prevent unwanted storms, or bring much needed rain to areas suffering drought. New and better technological improvements will create a safer, more efficacious environment for all. 7.) Hollywood, and the like, always enjoy making movies or stories about Paradise going awry. They often show how a lack of adversity leads to a sterile, institutional, and drone-like existence which no one would enjoy. Part of the Utopian challenge is to ensure that life remains fun, exciting, and challenging. If this means taking bodily risks in extreme sports, or hi-stakes gambling, or drug induced hallucinations, etc., these all could be accommodated to some degree. People would know the risks associated with their addictions and be willing to start over at the bottom and work their way back to their level of comfort. 8.) Ultimately, Utopia consists of all governments cooperating one with another; people being valued by their respective governing authorities; communities looking out for every inhabitant; and inhabitants being educated and productive members of society who also value one another. 9.) In the event that criminals or criminal organizations should still persist, an area of the world very much the antithesis of Utopia would be established as a penal colony. After freezing their asses off for a few months, criminals would be allowed to reconsider their place in the Utopian society. Frequent offenders would be permanently banished for the good of everyone else, or, in the case of a mass murderer, their life function would be terminated in the quickest, humanest, method possible, their remains being dissolved, flushed down the nearest loo, and donated to the communities sanitation department. What triggered this whole line of thought was another thread which was moaning about how bad things are these days... how society is going down the tubes. I reminded him that he wasn't suffering under Roman persecution, or his town was not under the threat of being invaded by the likes of Attila the Hun or Tamerlane. He was not under the threat of the Spanish Inquisition or living a horridly tedious religious life like the Puritans. We have come a long way, with hot and cold water in every home, a Walmart in every town, electricity and natural gas at our fingertips. Oh, we have it so tough! There are no more lumberjack bunkhouses full of lice and bedbugs, nor cattle drives or prairie towns subject to attack by the Apaches or Comanches, or what have you. There are smooth highways to take us cross country and airlines to take us to Europe in a matter of days instead of weeks. This isn't Utopia, not yet... but it could be just around the corner."	PRO	804
804	S616c1321-A600307fd	The U.S. Should Maintain its Alliance with Israel	"Well, that was an...interesting argument from Con. As for my earlier round, I never said that the debate had adopted ""new terms"", I simply requested that my opponent use footnotes or post his links in-text to make it easier to connect claims to sources. Israeli Rights Con has completely exaggerated the issue of human rights and discrimination in Israeli. He acts as if Israel is committing horrendous acts of injustice that don't deserve any support from countries like America, but these issues are much more minor then Con thinks. In fact, according to the ""2010 U.S. State Department Country Reports On Human Rights Practices for Israel and the Occupied Territories, Israeli law prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, and the government effectively enforced these prohibitions.""[1][2] Now, while racial equality has been a priority for the government, that doesn't mean that Israel's people are necessarily perfect. No one can deny that racism still exists even in very free countries such as the U.S. The difference is that we can't blame some Israeli people for being prejudiced against the Palestinian state that has been in constant conflict with Israel for decades and is bound to stir up hostile feelings. It would be comparable to the American Union and Confederacy trying to exist together in harmonious peace when the beginning of the Confederacy brought instantaneous conflict. All of the instances of discrimination that Con brought up earlier were against Palestinians, not simply against a minority for the sake of being racist. Israel and the Middle East Con challenges my claim that Israel is a freer, more democratic nation than the surrounding Arab states. I disagree; having proven earlier that the human rights of Syria, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Yemen, Oman, and Palestine are much lower than Israel. Con concedes all of this. Instead of trying to actually prove that Israel's nature is worse than that of it's neighbor theocracies, he restates that because he believes that because two of the attacks Israel made on Palestine were unjust, than it is somehow overall worse than Palestine. Again, this is extremely miniscule of an argument. The real conflict is Israel vs Hamas, with the Palestinian government being opposed to the terrorists, and from Hamas's group, there have been thousands of missiles shot into Israel with the terrorists using civilian homes as shields [3]. My argument Having started to go off track of what I've originally argued, I will restate why the U.S. ought to maintain its alliance with Israel: to be a Western influence in the Middle East. Having shown that Israel is far freer and more democratic than all the other countries in that area, renddrinf it unique, the U.S. has an interest in keeping hold of this alliance in order to be the influence of good in the Middle East. Con hasn't successfully refuted this argument, but has attempted to use distractions such as racial laws an isolated allegations of Israel in order to disprove this, which I have overturned. Thus, I hold this contention. Peace My other major contention in this debate is that the U.S. is good at helping maintain peace in the Middle East, thus it has an interest in doing so by keeping form this alliance with Israel as it seems to be the center of conflict and could use support in order to maintain peace, which is likely there number one interest considering all the attacks that have occurred in that area. Con never really refuted this, attempting to distort my argument by reasoning that Israel's ""invasion"" of Egypt was the negation of peace. I assume he is referring to the Six Day War of 1967, which was really an extended conflict from the 1948 Israel-Arab War which officially began after Egypt, Jordan, and Syria combined to invade Israel following it's independence[4]. If anything, Egypt was responsible for this conflict, not Israel. Military Groups The restatement that ""Israel's alliance with the U.S. is responsible for 9/11"" is quite a poor argument. For one, we can never know really and can only guess, and second this is irrelevant to the resolution (as I stated earlier) because it talks about the past, not the present, which is what the resolution is focused on. Con should be arguing that the alliance should be cut rather than that it never should have existed. Israel's Future Con asserts that if the U.S. broke its relationship with Israel, other countries would swoop in and help it to its feet. The major problem with this is that it is simply a guess and there is no reason to believe that will happen. I find it interesting how Con has argued that the costs of the Israeli alliance are a major harm to America yet states that China could just lend money to Israel in order to ensure peace and prosperity. Here he concedes that the costs can be worth it if lives are in jeapordy, thus the costs argument is pretty much useless. Let's take this claim seriously. For one, backing out of an alliance simply upon the guess that China will help Israel is very risky and a decision that isn't worth taking. What if China doesn't help Israel, or what if it's lending of money doesn't keep lives from being taken? This is too theoretical for anyone to take seriously. To assume that Israel and other groups will ""peacefully disband"" is flat out wrong because the conflict between the Jews and Arabians is extremely deeply rooted. The terrorists and Arabians have vowed to wipe Israel of the face off the face of the Earth and will not rest until they destroy the Jewish state that they are so pitted against. Negotiations have been impossible and cannot be achieved without a proper means of defense and a strong nation to aid Israel in its defense so that its civilians can live in peace. Conclusion If you compare both my arguments and my opponent's statements, you'll find that mine are indeed stronger. I have shown that an American alliance with Israel is in the best interest of both countries and is a net benefit it in that area. In a place of utter conflict, support from a strong Western nation is absolutely vital for the little country of Israel to defend itself against the 22 Arab states that are near it and could turn into another Holocaust if their people is not protected from the Arabian forces that have expressed their anger too many times. My arguments consist of an alliance bringing a positive influence to that area, a greater chance of peace, and a stronger chance that the people of Israel can live without being destroyed. My opponent's arguments are basically made up of theoretical scenarios in which minor effects, such as military groups and a little more money spent, pose little harm from a strong alliance. Vote Pro! [1] http://en.m.wikipedia.org... [2] http://m.state.gov... [3] http://www.bbc.com...; [4] http://en.m.wikipedia.org..."	PRO	805
805	Sde2ed754-A5057f613	The U.S. Federal Government should increase its exploration and/or development of space	"On my opponents case: 1. World Peace One can say the same thing about anything being stolen or hijacked, and used for terrorism. I doubt terrorists would make much progress[or be very successful] in hacking satellites, let alone hijacking a space vessel which requires the extensive training, inspection, and the ""okay"" from many people to launch. I'm not saying that it couldn't happen, yet procedures and precautions would develop over time to ensure this would not happen. Again though, America will be the target of terrorism regardless of whether we do space or not. We shouldn't cease it[space] because of such, it wouldn't make sense if we abandoned air flight because people could use airplanes against us. I refer to the quote my opponent used in round 4, other nations are developing their space programs, so simply because America ceases space development doesn't mean other nations will stop, or that it would somehow protect America from space related terrorists attacks. 2. Debt and Money The recovery from debt doesn't lie in cutting what programs that don't appear to produce immediate benefits, it relies on undoing the problems that put America in debt. The amount of money NASA receives is so modest that increasing it slightly would open the door for bigger projects and still take a near meaningless amount of the budget. [See my point 4 in argument 2] There are many aspects of our budget we could look at and clip to begin pushing our debt amount in a positive direction before having to cut up the space program. 3. Various Dangers A. The point I was making was that regardless if help was available or not, they put their lives on the line, they were all in great danger at some point or another. The space endeavor is no different in that respect. I must repeat, we should not shy away from the forefront of discovery, especially when we have people willing to risk their lives to aid the advancement of the human endeavor. The safer methods would be developed in the process. We can't develop these methods if we are not engaging space exploration. B. It think it's a bit of a leap in logic to say that increasing the space program will potentially exterminate the human race based on the hunch that life could be on Mars because it has ice. The fact remains that we haven't found life on Mars. There's definitely no risk to us [at the very least] to send rovers there to find out. C. As I said in A, advancement in our methods will come from partaking in space flight research and development. Decreased funding has America sending non-manned vehicles into space, in the future we will be relying on other countries such as Russia to get people to and from the Space Station. On defense of my case: 1. Inspiration The debate as to what is the cause of America's lack of zeal for education and knowledge is a completely different topic. My original statement was about the influence the program had on people who became scientists or engineers, regardless if they eventually worked at NASA or not. I don't believe that simply because people or times were ""simple"" back then was the reason the moon landing ""wowed"" them. It was because it had never been done before, and it proved to the world what America was capable of beyond War[Or in a sense, capable of with War]. One thing that wasn't around at the time of Apollo was an unhealthy amount of ""pop-culture"" which seems to have a very dominating effect on youth at the present, which seems to take precedence over scientific and educational interests. 2. Knowledge I would have to disagree with you said in your first attack, ""The reason is because all the youth don't care about anything."" Youth cares a lot about musical artists, pop-culture media, fads, ect. Yet this happens because from a young age the priority has shifted over the decades. In the late 60's the children had basic toys, chores, schooling, and the events of the Apollo era. Now, with that minus Apollo, they have access to Miley Cyrus, smart-phones, and the Internet. These new aspects of the modern-era are distorting priorities and, in essence, training youth not to care about scientific undertakings of many kinds. These aspects are unavoidable of course, however we can control how children obtain access to them. I believe the means and methods by which children are accessing those aspects these days are having detrimental effects on our society. 3. Technology and Advancement There's no way one can say that we have received the best we will get from the space program. The economical/technological benefits are unforeseeable, as are many that come with new scientific discovery. New technology, and technological refinement are what the space program has proven to provide over the past several decades. [I re-invite readers to visit my [3] source in round 3, point 3] Why ""burn"" this bridge? The space program has a strong influence on any technology that's involved with it. 4. Cost and Payoff If we pretend for a moment that we upped our space program funding while continuing to make the same economical decisions, then it's easy to see how America would continue to go into debt. However that's not what I'm saying. What I was saying is that it is in fact possible to maintain or increase the amount of funding for space research and development while reworking the other aspects of the budget that are causing America to go into debt. I'm not saying that we forget about our debt, but that our debt is manageable while keeping and advancing our space program. This doesn't mean that educational programs would be subjected to cutting. There are many other aspects to the budget that can be reworked, and reconsidered without singling the space program out. My initial fourth point was that space research doesn't receive as much funding as many people think, and I believe that I have demonstrated just that. When one considers how much money NASA receives relative to the national budget it's hard to make the case that space research is the cause, or the potential cause for the debt of the nation given the benefits I have mentioned throughout the course of this debate. I don't think I have contradicted my points by stating that other aspects of the budget could be targeted. Yes, education is one of them, yet that doesn't mean I'm referring to that aspect specifically. Closing Remarks: I've based my arguments on solid facts, credible evidence, and critical thinking. However my opponent seems to have based much of his arguments on speculation, generalization, and exclusion of the ""big picture"" so to speak. The figurative and literal prices we pay undertaking such ventures are not small. However, as I've discussed, we have many technologies, knowledge, and advancements thanks to the space program. It's easy at face value to see amount of money we spend on such ventures as intimidating numbers. However one needs only to look at the amount relative to the total national budget to see that we don't necessarily spend very much on space as it is. Knowing what the space program has given to us in the past, there's plenty of reason to see that it will provide many exciting discoveries and technologies into our future. If we should decide that discovery is no longer important, then we lose not just what makes us American, but human. Space exploration provides a motivational boost to many people, and the few that it touches the deepest become very productive scientists and engineers who help discover the technology that benefits mankind. The knowledge we obtain from space research helps us understand our place in the Universe, and make scientific discoveries that motivate more questions and technologies that make life for humans easier. This is indeed an avenue worth expanding upon. I thank my opponent and everyone who took their time to read this debate."	PRO	806
806	Sac752d39-Af272ea7d	Parents/guardians should be in control of their child(ren)'s education, not the state.	Round 1. Accept the invitation. Optional: Background, Key Terms. Round 2. Standard Round 3. Standard Round 4.	PRO	807
807	Sac752d39-A7e0557e5	Parents/guardians should be in control of their child(ren)'s education, not the state.	As per the parameters established, I shall use this round for acceptance only. I will provide neither background information nor key terms; I will define my key terms later. I look forward to a good debate :)	CON	808
808	S7064c844-Ab45d40e5	DDD's 30th debate: Physical Education SHOULD be a requirement in schools	(INTRODUCTION) Again, I thank you for posting. It seems you have taken up too many debates at the same time! It’s OK. (ARGUMENTS) (7) Besides gym being physical activity, and good for your mental health and whatnot, gym is also just fun! As a kid in grade school, you would obviously find some joy in playing multiple sports or going outside and playing on the playground. It is just plain fun for kids to play gym. So what are some (wait for it) health benefits of fun? “When you’re having fun, it’s hard to keep that natural grin off your face—and for good reason. A simple smile can turn a rotten day right side up. According to psychologist Cliff Kuhn, smiling immediately decreases stress levels and improves tolerance for pain—even when the smile you put on is “fake.” Not only do you feel good when you smile, your mental health improves, too. This article on body language says that the body releases endorphins every time you smile. Endorphins are neurotransmitters that send a message of confidence and satisfaction to the brain. The result? A more cheerful and self-assured you. Smiling is just like eating chocolate. Unlike the latter, though, there’s no need to monitor just how often you smile in a day. The more you smile, the better you’ll look and feel. You’ll make others feel great too, so smile away!” {1} So obviously when you are having fun you almost always smile. And thus smiling is good for you (8) Remember one of my earlier points? That gym allow kids to have stress release? Well, this point expands on that even more focusing on the male gender specifically (Sorry feminists.) “ Girls receive better marks at school than boys because they are better behaved, not because they are more intelligent, a study suggests. Teachers give higher marks to reflect 'certain student characteristics' that are not related to ability, the international study claims. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, which carried out the research, said that the bias could have 'far-reaching effects' for boys' self-esteem.”{2} Us males are as this article says, not as well-behaved, but gym can help us exert these thoughts, making us better behaved. “there is evidence that males are quicker to aggression (Frey et al. 2003) and more likely than females to express their aggression physically”{3} So now we know that boys are naturally more aggressive than females. But do schools help with this? “More boys have problems with attention and focus than girls. Because of their higher activity level, boys are likely to get into more trouble than girls. And they are not given enough opportunities to move around “{4} I believe that this is talking about younger children (6-12) So we should also discuss teens (13-18) “The teenage years are difficult to get through. Physical and emotional changes occur at a rapid pace, and the need for acceptance gains importance in a teenager's life. Hormones take over, emotions run high and every teen has to learn how to cope with the new changes.”{5} Just imagine, a 14 year old boy with hormones going crazy that has no way to cope. Gym can help cope with the stress and aggression. (CONCLUSION) I am looking forward to your response. DDD (REFERENCES) {1} http://www.femalenetwork.com... {2}http://www.dailymail.co.uk... {3}http://en.wikipedia.org... {4}http://www.pbs.org... {5}http://www.livestrong...	PRO	809
809	S7064c844-A7286120d	DDD's 30th debate: Physical Education SHOULD be a requirement in schools	I accept :D Thanks to DDD for challenging me to this debate.	CON	810
810	Sd70f9b95-Ab9b78d64	Xbox One's downsides outweigh its benefits	"""XO has good day one and launch titles not coming ever or soon to other platforms[XO_exclusives]: day one: Ryse: Son of Rome, Dead Rising 3, Forza 5, Killer Instinct; launch window: Titanfall, Halo, Quantum Break, Project Spark. That is besides the better visuals and the countless other games coming to the platform that would differentiate it from any other platform except PS4 and high end PC"" I'm not going to argue on games at this point, because speculating on them seems a bit premature. However, it has been clearly established that, although Xbone is more powerful than Xbox 360, it is less powerful than PS4. According to Eurogamer, ""PlayStation 4's 18 CU graphics core has 50 per cent more raw power than the GPU in the new Microsoft console"".[1] ""XO also is a good platform to develop for, having adopted an x86 CPU with similar performance to PS4[simple_xbox_hardware]. Microsoft is also a lot more experienced in creating development tools than Sony as John Carmack has said in the past[xbox_tools_better]. This means that developers will find it easy to develop for XO and the other platforms will not gain an edge in this regard."" Once again, this is a pure software issue. However, one thing to note is that Microsoft is actually only friendly to developers from major studios. While PS4 allows indie developers to self-publish, Xbone does not.[2] ""I will present an example of huge internet backlash that has not influenced most buyer's and players opinion about a game. The game is Battlefield Heroes that launched with a free to play with an item store. It later increased it's prices beyond most players ability to purchase most items for use from an hour's worth of gameplay daily. That created a huge backlash on the internet at the time. But the players continued to play the game and revenues increased to sustain the continued operation of the game[backlash_fallacies]. XO is also coming at the same time as it's primary rival the PS4[XO_on_time_launch]. It will not be at a disadvantage like the PS3 that launched with a year's worth of games less."" Once again, software issue. The article says the base that complained about the game was only 2% of all people who played it; however, virtually every major poll of gamers has shown support for PS4 over Xbone by significant margins - as much as 94% of all gamers in some polls.[3] Forbes notes that ""[$499 USD] is a price aimed directly at the core gaming community. Hardcore gamers are the only people who spend that much money on new consoles — they’re the ones who need to experience the biggest, newest games, no matter what the cost, and they’re the ones who can prop up a system until it grabs a large enough install base. But they’re also the people who have been most vocal about their displeasure with Microsoft Xbox One’s used games policies.[4] In other words, Microsoft is screwed because they have alienated the core gamer base and have made the price of the console one which will market primarily to hardcore gamers. ""One platform registering a lot of growth is the mobile platform. Resale of apps in the Iphone App Store and the Android Marketplace are completely forbidden as opposed to XO which has a better policy in this regard[mobile_apps_non_resalable]. That has not stopped the release of games far more expensive than the 99 cent usual price on mobile."" Mobile growth is interesting in that regard, but a 99 cent app is a lot less expensive than a $60 USD game. If I pay $60 for something, I want to own it - not rent it indefinately - and most gamers seem to agree with me. ""As we speak there is confidence by PC gamers in DRM done right. The platform of choice for many PC gamers that buy their games digitally is Steam. It has a strict DRM policy of 'phoning' home every two weeks[steam_drm_now]. At launch it had to deal with a backlash in the media about that restriction of not playing your games when you are not connected to the internet. By comparison when there was news about Dark Souls coming to PC a community of potential buyers appeared to back the Steam platform instead of the Windows Live platform of digital distribution[dark_souls_pro_steam_petition]."" I don't use Steam, but, unlike Xbone, it allows you to play Steam games on multiple machines in return for the DRM limitations. Its still a bad deal, but at least it provides you something for it. On Xbone, you can only play games you have bought on the Xbone - not, say, Windows 8, Windows Phone, and Surface Tablet. Additionally, Steam is actually trying to eliminate the 'authentication period' for all games (meaning they are aiming for an indefinate offline mode[6]) still, two weeks is far less restrictive than the one-day login requirement for Xbox. Look at it this way - if the Steam servers crash, there is far more time for them to be fixed before you can't play games on it. Using the worst-case Sony scenario - 24 days - you would have 14 days of gaming on Steam, meaning ten days with no gaming, as opposed to only one day of gaming on Xbone, meaning 23 days with no gaming. Of course, both of these are far more restrictive than PS4 and Wii U, which let you play games whenever you want. ""Microsoft's Xbox One will live or die by the quality of the DRM in XO, so they will push the quality assurance of the DRM involved to much higher levels than what was going on in Windows Live. They also have an experience in running the Xbox Live and Windows Live platforms for a very long time now, like Valve had with Steam in the above example. Like Windows 7 was a stable platform compared to Windows Vista, so should Xbox One be a stable platform without major issues at launch that would transform the initial media backlash into a secondary disaster confirmation backlash when the console actually launches and ends up in actual customer usage[microsoft_learns_from_experience]."" As demonstrated above, Microsoft has a tremedous task ahead of them. They have to sell a high-priced, restrictive console with inferior graphics to the hardcore gamer audience, who are already pretty solidly against it. The problem with Xbone is not that it has a single very bad issue, it is that there are many bad issues that combine to make a very bad system. For example, let's say Xbone removes DRM and online checkin. You still have to deal with the price and the always-watching-you Kinect. If they lower the price, you still have to deal with DRM, Kinect, and online checkin. Can it be done? Sure. Sony's PS3 had a very bad launches, but it has rebounded to the point where it has out-shipped the 360.[8] But, as it stands right now, Xbone has its work cut out for it. References: 1. http://www.eurogamer.net... 2. http://www.develop-online.net... 3. http://www.cinemablend.com... 4. http://www.forbes.com... 5. http://www.wired.com... 6. http://www.wired.com... 7. http://steamcommunity.com... 8. http://www.gamesindustry.biz..."	PRO	811
811	Sa8a9759e-A1bbf1f5e	Resolved: DDO should have its own pope	1) Why does DDO need a Pope? DDO needs a Pope for the several reasons. - 1 - To bring order to the Religious forum. Like seriously have you been in there recently? Making it out of the Religious forum without getting in a fight is as hard as Making it out of Miley Cyrus without contracting 4 STD's..... The Religious forum is so dysfunctional, it is about so shut itself down similar to the US government.... We need a leader to lead it out of the chaos, or at least try - 2 - We need a Pope to check the ever growing power of the Presidency. Airmax has been great and all, but sooner or later there will be a president who will not hesitate to come down on your nutsack with the mighty banhammer for trivial reasons. Like if I were president id probably ban half the site just for not having funny sounding names, and knowing how insane most other people are on here, its not unimaginable that someone could go mad with power..... A pope would put a check on the power of the presidency, or maybe become president himself and lead us on a holy crusade against the infidels of Createdebate. Either way, its well worth the risk - 3 - DDO needs to declare an official religion, so that we can show the infidels at Createdebate that we aint f*ckin around over here. If its on, then its on - 4 - A Pope could lead us through a tragic event like 9/11, the cancellation of a good TV show, and other hardships that we come to the internet for guidance. - 5 - MORE ELECTIONS :D And by elections, I mean elections that actually will be close and not one sided a** whippings between Airmax and whoever tries to delude themselves into running for president.... I mean for f*cks sake, Larz lost to a misspelled version of Airmax's own name, Airmaxx...... Which I had nothing to do with for the record. 2) Now then, what would the DDO Pope actually DO? - 1 - Lead us through hard times both on DDO and maybe in real life - 2 - Bring order to the Religious forums - 3 - Decide what the religion of DDO shall be. (We could have an Atheist pope and then a Jewish Pope after that) - 4 - Possibly let me have the rights to put the Weekly Stupid in the Religious forum so that it gets more traffic - 5 - If not number 4, then allow for a spin off series called 'The Weekly ALLLLLAAAAAHHHHHH' where I find some other way to make fun of stupid people - 6 - Be sort of a spiritual advisor for people who have questions about religion and stuff - 7 - Wear funny hats all the time - 8 - Give sermons and group prayers while wearing funny hats - 9 - Post videos to reinforce his preachings 3) Wouldnt a DDO Pope lead to a pedophila ring where high priests sexually assault little boys and girls on the internet? Probably, but im 20 and most people on here are older then 16 so dont worry about it 4) When would the Pope elections be? Every 3 months after a presidential election or whenever the previous Pope retires due to a sex scandal.... 5) Could anyone campaign to be Pope? Yes, as long as they promise to drop out at the last minute and then give their support to me. Thats all I got for now	PRO	812
812	Sacbc3c8e-A4d56624f	Resolved: Information about contraceptives should be included in sex education classes.	Moreover, he has forfeited a round, so according to the rules, I've already won the conduct vote. My opponent's entire case in the first round in no way addresses the resolution, nor does my opponent ever make an argument against my case. Thefore, my case is winning by adherence to the topic and pure extension.	PRO	813
813	Sacbc3c8e-A1d76015d	Resolved: Information about contraceptives should be included in sex education classes.	Extend all arguments.	PRO	814
814	Sacbc3c8e-Ae3145f6e	Resolved: Information about contraceptives should be included in sex education classes.	(2) A forfeit in one, multiple, and/or any of the rounds constitutes a loss in the conduct point. (3) No trolling or semantics arguments. Both constitute automatic losses in the debate. (4) Presentation of new evidence is permissible only in the third round of the debate. Any new evidence presented in any of the other rounds is ignorable. Structure of the Debate (1) Acceptance of the resolution (2) Presentation of arguments. No rebuttals (3) Rebuttals (4) Rebuttals (5) Closing rebuttals or arguments	PRO	815
815	Sacbc3c8e-A6af5ec58	Resolved: Information about contraceptives should be included in sex education classes.	The debate speaks for itself. My opponent made no relevant arguments, no rebuttals, and has offered nothing to the table with respect to this debate.	PRO	816
816	Se7fa8bb9-A2fc51b3f	The USFG Should Substantially Increase Its Exploration of Earths Oceans	"Good morning ladies, gentleman, and honorable judge. My name is Forever 23 and I will be presenting the First Affirmative case for today""s debate. As the resolve states, the United States Federal government should substantially increase its development and/or exploration, in a non-militaristic manner, of the world""s oceans. Before I begin it is imperative for me to define a few key terms as stated by the Merriam Webster""s Online Dictionary: `79; United States Federal Government- a federal republic mainly in North America consisting of 50 states and the District of Columbia `79; Substantially- large in amount, size or number `79; Increase- to become larger or greater in size, amount, number etc. `79; Development- the act or process of growing or causing something to grow or become larger or more advanced `79; Oceans- a very large expanse of sea, in particular, each of the main areas into which the sea is divided geographically. And finally: `79; Non-militaristic- of or not related the military Fellow audience. What if I were to tell you that the United our most advanced security and technological frameworks, that their potential absence from the marketplace could pose a detrimental threat to US national security so severe, that it could have catastrophic consequences due to their insufficiency. And what if those rare resources were, in fact, almost solely in the hands of the country's fiercest global economic competitor who held a monopoly over them? Well ladies and gentlemen this is no longer a ""what if"" game. It""s reality. An article by Jeff Nesbit, a senior communications official in the White House, claims in an article published by US News that ""Despite years of concern in the U.S. and around the world, China still controls a monopoly on Rare Earth Elements (REEs) that are critical to a number of advanced defense systems, mobile devices and emerging green technologies. And the situation isn't likely to change any time soon."" What are rare earth elements? These are the 17 rare elements ranging from Neodymium (used in strong magnets) and Europium (used in red lasers). Doc Hastings, a US representative from Washington, said in 2013: ""In fact, life as we know it in the 21st century could not be possible without minerals. There would be no computers, no blackberries or iPhones. There would be no MRI, CAT scan, or X-ray machines. There would be no wind turbines or solar panels"" Rare Earth Elements, a special subset of strategic and critical minerals, are core components for these products of the 21st century."" They are a small industry, with a total net global worth of $3 billion dollars. However, these elements are vital to most modern technologies, and the net global worth of the technologies in which these are used in is over a trillion dollars. Prior to a decade ago, the United States had no problems with Rare Earth Elements. However, The United States gradually transitioned to the cheaper imports of China, and now it imports 100% of the American demand for rare earth elements. Normally, this would not be a major problem. According to Gal Luft, the Director for the Analysis of Global Security, China produced 97 percent of the world""s rare earths.The rest of the world relied on China for it""s abundant supply; why wouldn""t the US do the same? However, China decided to stem the flow of REEs out of China in 2010 and to keep them mostly to themselves. The world was stupefied by this blockade; China was the largest supplier at 97%, and there was no legitimate substitute. China placed heavy export limits and heavy tariffs (ranging from 30% to 70%, depending on resource) on REEs coming out of China, but placed no tariffs on finished goods. Neodymium for example, had an export limit (and serious export taxes) slapped on it, but FeNdB magnets, made from neodymium could be exported without limits or taxes. (Tim Worstall, forbes.com, 2013) According to the Congressional Research Service, these restrictions have cost the United States a huge sum of money. The United States spent $1,530,000,000 on rare earth elements in 2012, and it spent $2,310,000,000 on them in 2014. The amount of Rare Earth Elements imported did not increase. In other words, China""s restrictions are becoming too costly for the United States to burden. Gal Luft goes on to state that ""its fast economic growth requires that more of its metals production remain at home for domestic use"". China is well aware of the strength it possesses: Deng Xiaoping, leader of the Chinese after the fall of Mao Zedong, publicly stated that ""The Middle East has oil, China has rare earths"". More impressively, this was in 1992 when the demand and usage was only a fraction of what it is now. They saw this coming. America struggled to overcome this issue. An example is the Mountain Pass mine in California that was reopened in an attempt to reclaim REEs for domestic use. The Royal Gazette (April 1,2014) states otherwise: ""Experts assumed that this North American mine alone could supply up to 43,000 metric tons at its' productivity peak. However, numerous health concerns contributed to the decline of efficiency of the mine. A total of 27 shafts were closed out of 32 due to cave ins, health related concerns (such as asbestos), and lack of return of investment."" The article goes on to mention Professor Schnidman, an engineering professor from UCLA, stating the issues with land-based mines: ""Land based mines are in danger of mineral depletion. 62% of the land mines in the United States are currently depleted. In addition, there is an insufficient amount of land available for future mining endeavors. Furthermore, there are many different risks that are associated with mining underground, such as cave-ins, poisonous gas, and asbestos. Meanwhile, ocean based drilling is far more profitable and feasible since there is less possibility of risk and a larger amount of untouched underwater resources."" Clearly, land-based mines have too many problems with them to fulfill our needs. China continues to maintain its strong monopoly with no solution in sight. The affirmative team refuses to stand by idly as the technological dreams of the United States are slowly crumbling. The United States today is the preponderant economic superpower with the highest GDP in the world, and, with the independence generated by the domestic acquisition of REE,we as the Affirmative Team intend to keep it that way. For this purpose, we propose to create an Arctic Offshore Mining Committee that will in turn subsidize a company called Freedom Minerals that will excavate the vital Rare Earth Elements off the coast of Alaska. The logistics of the plan will be further elucidated in the 2nd affirmative. Thank you."	PRO	817
817	S19b8d77c-Aec194468	Science lessons tend to deal with fact, as opposed to opinion as in a religious education lesson	Indeed, the science room is for experimentation, and creationism is a subject matter for such experiments. Creationism has yet to be disproved. Ergo, creationism belongs in the science room.	CON	818
818	S64c53e3d-Abb041cb7	Higher Education ought to be private and indiviuals ought to pay for it themselves.	Thanks my opponent for posting this debate. I agree with definitions, you can start with arguments in next round :) Good luck to both of us!	CON	819
819	S996dd88-A5a8b790e	The US should increase its use of nuclear energy	"Argument 1: The current system, with a majority of energy being produced by coal and natural gas (41.9, 24.8) is harmful to the United States -the major polluter are cars not coal energy producing stations 1a)Generating energy with coal plants has many harmful side effects -generating with nuclear is harmful since the end products cannot be stored safely -i think its better for us to invest in making coal stations more efficient than building nuclear -nuclear is also costly to maintan -When environmental and hidden costs are factored in, nuclear power is one of the most expensive ways of generating electricity. Argument 2:There are many benefits of nuclear energy -the supposed benefits of nuclear energy are outweighed by the possible effects of 1. nuclear proliferation will increase the threat of nuclear weapons since its easy to turn nuclear reactors into nuclear weapons 2. The whole idea behind preventing global warming is to protect the Earth""s ecosystems, collectively known as the biosphere. You can""t save the biosphere if it""s irradiated by a nuclear fallout 3. Why is it worth potentially losing a region of a country, or even a whole country, just to generate electricity? 4. Besides the painful facts of ongoing meltdowns, nuclear power plants don""t need to be built because truly renewable, or perhaps more descriptively, fuelless electricity technologies, like wind, are far superior to nuclear energy. One reason we don""t need nuclear energy is because uranium is also a limited nonrenewable resource. And its mining, refining, construction, operation, and disposal all require substantial amounts of petroleum fuels, and are all accomplished by devices and processes which are largely ill-suited to electric power. And of course the disposal problem is nowhere near a solution. New nuclear power stations will not be built in the UK, or anywhere else, unless substantial subsidies are provided. That several such subsidies are already in place is a flagrant breach of the principle of fair competition. Subsidies may be justified for new industries and new technologies but they are not justified for nuclear power which is long-established and has had more than its fair share of support. Cost It appears that, where claims are made that nuclear power is cheap, the evidence has come, directly or indirectly, from the nuclear industry itself. It appears that such claims can only be made with some or all of the following optimistic assumptions: no overruns in the times or costs of building nuclear plants, ignoring all the subsidies for nuclear power and assuming that capital costs have been paid off. When all the overt and hidden subsidies are taken into account, nuclear power is one of the most expensive ways of generating electricity. To be competitive with other sources of power, nuclear power requires permanent support from tax payers or permanent support by means of market mechanisms or hidden subsidies. By contrast, most renewable forms of energy need temporary support until costs are reduced by economies of scales and refinement of technologies, and no further support after that. In conclusion my whole argument is based on the potential devastating effects of nuclear fallout that can destroy the whole world. Why do we need such a risk. Lets focus on improving the efficiency of renewable energy than building nuclear or coal. ""What exactly is nuclear power? It is a very expensive, sophisticated, and dangerous way to boil water."" Helen Caldicott"	CON	820
820	Sb0b23714-A789badc6	Naruto is overrated, and is average at its best	"I see con is apperently new to DDO... Welcome, Con! Now, I will begin enlisting my argumentation. I. Consistent problems in Naruto 1) Naruto - the main character - is useless. Even if we would see him as a vessel to this fictional world, he still has more screentime than anyone else. Before shippuden, he was completely useless in battle, while after shippuden, he alledgedly would be better but dissapoints the viewer again by not having learnt any new techniques. We literally had to wait until the fight against pain, which is midway shippuden. All those hours of watching the character Naruto before that, are lost! The jokes about Sasuke being better is not something to base an entity of 200 episodes on. Neither is the love triangle. As a character that brings emotions into the series, Naruto is quite useless as well. Feeling sorry for Naruto is very hard as he is more arrogant than humble. He also makes it through simply by luck - should he not have farted, Kiba would have defeated him. These kinds of luck make the show terrible. 2) Sometimes, the writer lets his fantasy get the better of him. By this, I mean that he stretches his limits too far. An example of this would be the tailed beasts, which seem to be almost in the center of the story. Not only are these beast fights a pain to watch, It's also the only reason why Naruto brought something to the table in the before-shippuden period. Although it was horrible to see those fights, it is the reason why Haku was defeated. Wouldn't the show be much better if Naruto actually posessed some talent or was simply born with a tremendous amount of chakra, rather than these ugly and boring-to-watch beasts being integrated in the story? Another example of this would be the Susano, although I have only just seen it for the first time, it seems ugly and ruins everything that there is to a ninja fight. 3) The killing off of characters First of all, the writer seriously can't expect us to both hate a villain and feel sorry for him all within about 4 episodes (Kimimaro for example). The opposite is possible as well: Orochimaru, the main villain for over 200 episodes, gets killed without a fight. He was no longer fun to watch, so he had to die, but to not let him put up a fight was ridiculous. On the other hand, while there are so many names to remember from the hidden leaf village, only 2 ""heroes"" have ever died: Jiraija and the third Hokage. Chiyo etc. do not count as they were barely introduced when already ""sentenced to death"" by the author. Itachi however is a special case, a fight impossible to not be entertaining. But was it really worth spending hours just to see that one fight? II. The use of readymades 1) The author literally took existing myths from Japan, leaving very little coming from his own originality. Examples of this are Ichiraku Ramen (this place exists), the sannin (from mythology, literally), ""sasuke"" (the most famous ninja name to ever exist) and much, much more things are not really his ideas. This does not make the show bad, but it does result in a quality dip when he ran out of ""readymades"" and started relying on his own fantasy. III. The averageness of the show 1) This show was meant to be on TV. You can see that, as they fit in a small story (20 minutes) within an Arc, making for a whole story to be told everytime a child sees the show aired. I can only assume that they showed an entire Arc daily. When randomly seeing this show, it will not be appealing as it is hard to keep up with all the characters and their talents/backstories. So on air, this show isn't really worth watching unless you want to see random battles not understanding why they fight, or unless you're going to watch the whole thing without missing a single episode. When not watching this on TV, you would wish there were no ARCS as it is annoying they constantly start new, small stories. The anime-watcher wishes for the continuity that the manga reader has. 2) Fillers are self-explanatory, these are simply useless parts that still get fitted in regardless of the anime already being far behind the manga. Not only that, they are mandatory as sometimes they include things that are actually important for the real story. 3) The only reason this show really succeeds is because you're constantly looking forward to see characters develop and big fights take place. When you first watch this show, you'll be rather annoyed by the unfunny jokes and the uselessness of Naruto. My friend literally kept me in it saying that ""but Naruto fighting pain is epic, and Itachi vs sasuke daaaamn"". If only I could have those hours back, that I waited just to see these fights. Now that I'm in it, it is hard to stop though. The viewer will be captured by this ninja world, only because he's already so connected to the characters. But, the show would play out much better if it didn't have those 300 episodes as bad as they were. That time should be spent on more than just building up for shippuden. I will leave it at this for now, my opponent can choose if he further outlines his arguments or if h e leaves it at that and starts refuting mine. Good luck to con!"	PRO	821
821	S7c24da4d-Ab5afe36b	Its good that restaurants ban smoking indoors	"'When did i mention that it was my business? I really don't care if you smoke or not, this is about that being brought into restaurants. ' By saying it's not your business I was litterily saying it is not your business therefore you shouldn't have the right to command someone how to take care of their company. 'by me saying that i don't think people should smoke in restaurants, means that i want to control what people put in their body? No! This is a senseless and un-factual accusation that was not relevant to this discussion. ' It is completly relevant , You are indeed telling them what they can put into their bodies on a property that is not yours and that which you do not own and are not entitled to have a say on. You are basically saying as long as i'm alone on my property I can do whatever I want with it but when you come along I can't. This is what the government is doing right now. 'Shouldn't my opinion be in my opening statement? Why was that up for criticism? ' I apologise for mistaking your opening statement as your main piece of argumentation. 'Finally lets look at ""nobody forces you go to places that allow smoking."" No they don't, and I didn't say that anyone did. This was a very flawed and feelings based first argument from my opponent.' . You are arguing for it being 'good'. According to the English Oxford Dictionary the definition of good is 'To be desired or approved of:'(http://www.oxforddictionaries.com...) You did not state that good is defined in this debate as being desired by you therefore we are speaking in a general sense, for all restaurants to ban smoking is certainly not fair not only is it unfair and undesirable for the owner of the property who of course would want to appear more customer friendly, it is dicriminatory against smokers who now would have to leave the property to smoke . If there were no laws against smoking in places such as restuarants then there would be competition , you could go to a restuarant that allows smoking or does not allow it , People would have freedom of choice and wouldn't that be more desirable and morally right (Worth of societies approval) ?."	CON	822
822	Sbcbd1234-A546a406b	Public schools should offer education in world religions both historically and in religious beliefs	I think no religion should be taught in schools for several reasons: Firstly, the concept of 'neutrality' and 'non-biased' teaching of religion is impossible considering religion is so subjective. You will always upset someone in teaching Christianity, for example, depending on what version of the Bible you choose, or what interpretation you choose to take.( Islam is not better as there are many different interpretations of the Koran.) Secondly on the issues of neutrality, religions have some serious issues that need to be addressed, are we to teach about female circumcision , child abuse, terrorism and anti-homosexuality in a neutral way? Is religion beyond criticism? I would suggest that it is not. Thirdly, religion in the modern day is saturated with problems in justifying itself in the face of science and philosophy. Many religious beliefs are out dated, ridiculous and damn right evil. For the the good we are told religion does we cannot ignore the devastation it has left in its wake . Young people should be aware of these issues and they should be able to debate them. I think it is unethical to teach that religions are all about peace and love, when religion has been the main cause of violence, intolerance, bigotry, racism and ignorance in the world. To assume that by learning about the range of different religions a young person will understand the 'other' and be a peace with other faiths is daft. Most religions teach contempt for other religions and non- believers. When one is a loyal follower of Christianity, one cannot help but believe all other faiths are wrong and misguided. ( They will of course think that only they have the 'true way'.) There are so many schisms in Christianity alone, that we must be free to question and doubt the validity of it all. We must remember that Religions are not all saying the same thing. They are competing ideologies with conflicting practices and cannot, and will not, ever live in peace with each other. The only thing religions all have in common is that they are all man made. No more wishy washy rubbish to be taught in schools, let's teach philosophy, morality, ethics, science. Let's give young people truth.	CON	823
823	S616c1321-A31759db6	The U.S. Should Maintain its Alliance with Israel	Even though my opponent never outright wrote that new terms were being adopted my opponent indeed did adopt new terms. Similary a signatory can create a mutual agreement with another party and after signed request new terms without directly saying these are new terms, in fact if a signatory did want new terms, it'd be more likely the signatory would not expressively state new terms are being requested to hid the fact he is requesting new terms. I had been hoping Pro would at least on one round avoid basing his arguments on an israel-centric viewpoint. However majority of his arguments if not pretty much all are centered around israelite people and very little if no regard for other people. He has simply brushed off American homeless who are without jobs or Americans who are struggling to pay their daily expenses as minor. He has also brushed off American suffering under terrorist attacks due to continued American support for israel with 9/11 being the prime example. He also says the countries around israel will benefit from israel's continued alliance with USA simply because they are inferior to israel in western terms even though this is hardly the truth. Since my opponent has a general Israelite-centric view I will try to give voters an insight on multiple views of the issue. American view My opponent likes to disregard american unemployment, starvation, lack of basic needs, econmic crashes, and everyday struggles as something that should be put down for Israel's good. It is also noteworthy my opponent ignores US economic struggles with an ever increasing debt and unemployment etc in his final round. This is understandable as it's hard to argue tax money and unemployment for the sake of weapon funding for 'peace' is the same as charity. It is easy to argue charity is worth military buildup but it's hard to argue taxpayer money and unemployment is worth military buildup so it seems once 'charity' is American pain and suffering then it gets dropped out. My opponent also tries to downplay 9/11 as a thing of the past while ignoring a continuous stream of terrorist attacks in the USA. As one can clearly see 9/11 is proof that the alliance is a current threat to the USA as 9/11 was not the last terrorist attack and more will continue so long as US maintains its alliance. As can be seen by the bottom highlight it is indicated it's not a thing of the past and of course my opponent is yet to prove terrorism in the US is a thing of the past US alliance with Israel will not generate more terrorist attacks in the USA. As can be seen this has never actually been refuted by my opponent as my opponent never proved that terrorist groups won't continue to terrorize the USA. He only says today isn't 9/11 therefore it's in the past and he deliberately ignores the fact it's just an example of how America's continued support for Israel will cause innocent USA citizens to be continually terrorized. He therefore turned an example supporting an arguement(continued support causes terrorist attack in USA) into the argument itself and has dropped out the real argument which the example was used to support. This is understandable as it is in his best interest to drop out the fact that USA support for israel will continue to terrorize USA citizens by swithcing example with argument itself. Again this shows Israelite-centric view and completely disregards future USA suffering for terrorist attackers due to the continuation of the alliance. I will readdress my earliest argument that USA supportin Israel today does not supports today's American policies. As seens it's in direct violation of laws to be supportin Israel the way it is. My opponet never addresses the severe violation of USA interests be supporting israel because he simply disregards it as minor racism. I will now address how USA supporting Israel infact hurts israelites!! It turns out US funding actually increases the burden of israelite civilians and makes them more prone to suffering rather than benefitting. It also has turned Israel into a spoiled child. As can be seen increased military funding makes more children schooless less elders taken care of and more funding to forcefully draft children into combat. Middle Eastern Point of View My opponent's only claim about how Middle East benefits is Israel somehow being around Middle East makes Middle East more democratic and better rather than more violent and more unrest. In fact Israel seems more like the tyrant and Middle Eastern nations are lesser so the tyrant because so we see that Israel is clearly the most abusive country in the Middle East region because it's the only one that legalizes torture. Israel legalizing torture and torturing its neighbors as many would imagine would clearly make those countries undoubtly want to adopt torture policies and in turn become themselves even less democratic. My opponet tries to mention my example of Hamas as the argument itself rather than an example of the bigger picture. My point was either misunderstodd or deliberately misinterpretted in which he took a specific example supporting a point( Israel is worse than Middle Eastern nations) and made that the point itself and disregarded the point it was supporting. He is argueing a nonexistant opponent and is failing to actually address my main arguments. 'Peace' My opponent would like to claim supporting the alliance is 'promoting peace' but this is hardly the case. as one can imagine how can providing weapons-tools of warfare and destruction- be promoting peace? This just causes everywhere to start building up more and more weapons with more weapons to spare. My opponent once again uses an example ONLY meant to support a point as the actual argument itself with the China example being warped into an actual argument itself. In fact I clearly state which shows china is merely an example and not the acutal argument itself as other nations might sympathsize as well. My opponent's suggestion that somehow a large scale war will occur would show lack of common sense of the part of all nations. As I already addressed common logic of nations in another round I will have no need to readdress it here. If my opponent can argue that USA continuing aid can continue to support peace then surely USA would be able to peacefully disband Israel. If it couldn't peacefully disband Israel which my opponent seems to suggest then logically it would be incapable of providing any 'peace' whatsoever through funding Israel. Conclusion My opponent addresses a very one sided Israelite Centric argument and downplays all other nations and peoples involved. As anyone can see my arguments clearly consider more than one party in this political debate while his seem to only address Israel and other nation concerns are neligble in his arguments. It also seems he is debating an imaginary opponent by warping my arguments into something completely different and making those warped versions of the argument part of his imaginary opponent's argument while tryig to avoid his real opponent's arguments. So far there has been no attempt to refute the asseration that my arguments are being warped into something they completely aren't which implies my opponent is fully aware of it and is trying to avoid bringing this up. It's also noteworthy his arguments seem to follow an earlier thinking I would imagine most non white supremacist readers would have regarded as flawed. He is following a 'White mans burden' argument in which white man must tame the world because white man is superior and only white man matters. In fact his argument that of Israel spreading human rights was like the British justification for colonizing Africa because britain was at the age of enlightment and banned slavery while africa didn't. When Britain colonized africa they exploited africans through blackmailing and other abuses just like israel does to palestinians today. He also contends that zionist imperialism is maintaining peace which was similar to British justification for sending in more money from colonizing states to increase military action against African partisans. He also maintains that Israel maintains peace much like the British declared their colonization of India maintained peace between muslims and Hindu. In fact when the British left peace was made by creating independent Pakistan and India. So as voters can see what type of 'philosophoical' roots my opponent addresses was analogus to the philosophical roots that justified British imperialism with the reality in both the Middle East situation and African situation being very different from the imperialist philosophy.	CON	824
824	Sc47d0f3e-A51a6831c	Evolution is a coherent theory with significant amounts of data to establish its veracity.	"Jacoby claimed in another debate comment: ""I'll just call you Con. You called the debater ignorant. He just doesn't understand. Well. based on your comments. You certainly aren't in any position to call anyone ignorant. Arrogance becomes the astute know -it -alls that use dogmatic rhetoric to insure your position. Fact is. Not one thing you stated is a fact on evolution. You]re simply parroting what you THINK you know. That is the problem with amateur debaters. Ever read Punctuated Equilibrium? Gould and his pal made a sorry attempt at revising a silly hypothesis of the evolutionary notion. Anyone worth their salt could see that the pathetic attempt to revive the FAIRYTALE was impossible. Don't be so sure about your science from those who weren't nearly as sure as their followers. I will debate anyone on the technicals of the theory and the abtracts that has perpetuated itself into a truth. Name the day, time and hour. I have Gould's book on my desk in his own words. He was frustrated with the LACK of facts! Good day."" http://www.debate.org... http://www.debate.org... -- I contend that he is wrong on these claims. * Gould did not argue against evolution, he argued varied interpretation. * Evolution has significant concrete data supporting it. * Evolution is a robust theory which explains large tracts of data. * I am not parroting what I think I know, I actually understand the theory. As it seems likely the Jacoby only registered to make that idiotic comment (it is the only thing he did) and is not going to return to defend it, I'm going to open this debate up to the floor. Does anybody care to defend his statement on any or all of the points."	PRO	825
825	S388394f5-A9dc34f7e	Resolved: a nation's citizens' rights ought to take precedence over its security.	"Contention I: ""And yet, the Soviet Union fell quickly. Why you might say? Despite having a strong military, the rights of the Russian people were being disregarded, and the government was abusing power."" ""...the controlling government, which valued security very highly, ended up trampling the rights of the people, causing its eventual downfall."" This essentially sums up my opponent's entire rebuttal. However, it is simply false. The fall of the Soviet Union had nothing to do with the ""abuse of human rights"". It mostly had to do with economy. In fact, it should be noted that the Soviet Union INCREASED personal freedoms of its people, an event soon followed by the disintegration of the nation. http://www.coldwar.org... Quite a weak argument here considering that my opponent fails to actually explain the supposed connection between human rights abuse and the fall of the Soviet Union. As seen above, I have actually provided a source that explains the fall of the USSR, an event that had nothing to do with the abuse of human rights. Contention II: "" I think we can all agree that personal freedom and the support of one""s rights gives much more morale than lack of individual liberty and the abuse and lack of rights."" This is highly debatable. In WW2, the Soviet soldiers were not only facing ""lack of individual liberty"" and ""abuse/lack of rights"", but also massive casualties on the front. Despite this, morale remained high enough for a grueling 4 years of brutal warfare in order to win. ""The great military commander Chiang Kai-shek stated..."" The commander my opponent called ""great"" and quoted was a military leader during the Chinese Civil War and it should be noted that this ""great military commander"" lost the Chinese Civil War and was exiled to Taiwan along with his forces. http://www.history.com... ""As we can see, both logic and the experiences of ancient and contemporary military commanders prove that morale is one of the most important aspects of conflict and a nations stability."" My opponent's logic here is that freedom=morale=victory in conflict. By such logic, there is no way a dictatorial nation could win in a conflict against a more free nation because of lack of morale. This is simply false, as we can see many, very powerful, dictatorial nations in history that were very successful (at least initially) in conflict. Nazi Germany and the Japanese Empire in WW2, for example. Yes, both eventually fell, but their defeat had nothing to do with a ""lack of morale"" because of a ""lack of rights"". In fact, it is known that despite a ""lack of rights"", both the Japanese and Germans fought to the last, relying on civilian assistance in guerrilla tactics to defeat the enemy even in the face of defeat. Contention III: ""Despite this, we all know the story of the American Revolution, in which the colonials rebelled against their British oppressors, who trampled the rights of the New Englanders. Thus, just because a government protects its people does not mean that the people will be content."" I sort of understand my opponent's point, but as soon as the British were defeated, what did the Americans do? Create a new government to protect the new nation. The purpose of a government is to protect its people, so shouldn't that be its focus? Contention IV: ""The people of the world and I disagree"" My opponent's source only had Americans as respondents, so saying ""the people of the world"" is quite misleading here. ""A Boston Globe poll shows that more than 60% of participants say that they value privacy over surveillance for security reasons."" 60% is a bit over half, that's not really heavily outweighing those who say they value surveillance for security more. Also, what people THINK is irrelevant. I demonstrated previously that surveillance cameras in public areas can have quite a large impact on the crime rate. How could one possibly say it's ""not worth it""? ""In conclusion, I have shown that my opponent""s first contention is invalid, as having a powerful military does not confirm security."" I meant security in a military sense. Security in an economic sense (what the USSR lacked) had little to do with military or personal rights. ""I did the same for his second and third claims by proving that morale is one of the most important aspects of war and by showing that just because a government protects its people does not mean that they will be content."" My opponent merely provided two quotes from two ""military personnel"" as proof of his claim. The first was written by a military ""loser"", and the second was written by an ancient Greek soldier. I find such ""proof"" quite unsatisfactory. While I agree that morale is important, it doesn't necessarily correlate with ""personal freedoms"", as I have shown with examples of Japan and Germany in WW2. ""And I disproved his final contentions with a poll that shows that people most definitely prefer the freedom of rights to extreme security measures."" I once again emphasize that my opponent's source only had Americans as respondents, and that the difference was only 11%. By this, it is unwise to say that ""...people most definitely prefer the freedom of rights to extreme security measures""."	CON	826
826	S388394f5-Abeb1cd6c	Resolved: a nation's citizens' rights ought to take precedence over its security.	"Hello debaters and voters, In this round of debate, I will be responding to my opponent’s arguments. In my own opening arguments, I showed how valuing security over rights results in the violation of those rights, countries that uphold security above rights have always ended up abusing the rights of the citizens, and the systems of protection currently implemented have done nothing to aid in security. Response to Contention I: In his first contention, labeled “I. National Independence”, my opponent essentially states that a powerful military means having a secure nation. This seems like it would be true, but let us look at it a little closer. I am going to use the example of the Soviet Union again. After WWII, the Soviet Union was under the control of the dictator Stalin. Stalin had instituted a system a government known as communism, which involves a highly centralized government (a centralized government is one in which the government controls most if not all facets of society). In this government, the military was of the utmost importance. The Russians devoted massive human and physical resources to the military, building one of the strongest states the world has ever seen. Their armies had millions of highly trained warriors. And yet, the Soviet Union fell quickly. Why you might say? Despite having a strong military, the rights of the Russian people were being disregarded, and the government was abusing power. The History Learning Site made the following statement, which sums up life in the Soviet Union: ""The people of Russia had to read what the state allowed, see what the state allowed and listened to what the state allowed.” (http://www.historylearningsite.co.uk...) As we can see, this is a blatant violation of the rights I introduced in my opening statements. Thus, though the Soviet Union had a powerful military, the controlling government, which valued security very highly, ended up trampling the rights of the people, causing its eventual downfall. Response to Contention II: In his second contention, my opponent makes a blatant assumption I feel must be addressed: “Personal freedom doesn’t win conflicts…” I would say the only thing that wins conflicts is the morale of the troops and people of states at war. I think we can all agree that personal freedom and the support of one’s rights gives much more morale than lack of individual liberty and the abuse and lack of rights. The great military commander Chiang Kai-shek stated: “War is not only a matter of equipment, artillery, group troops or air force; it is largely a matter of spirit or morale.” The Greek scholar and soldier Xenophon also stated that: “…it is not numbers or strength that bring the victory in war. No, it is when one side goes against the enemy with the gods’ gift of stronger morale that their adversaries, as a rule, cannot withstand them.” As we can see, both logic and the experiences of ancient and contemporary military commanders prove that morale is one of the most important aspects of conflict and a nations stability. Response to Contention III: My opponent’s third contention states that the government exists to protect the people. This may be true, but let us look more closely at it once more. In the late 1700s, the British Empire was the largest, most powerful empire in the world. No country could stand to its might. It was known as “the empire where the sun never set” because of the vast land it covered. One of England’s most profitable colonies was New England, in the New World. This New England provided things such as cotton, tobacco, and a large amount of timber. Thus, the government deployed many troops to protect this area. Despite this, we all know the story of the American Revolution, in which the colonials rebelled against their British oppressors, who trampled the rights of the New Englanders. Thus, just because a government protects its people does not mean that the people will be content. Response to Contention IV: In his final contention, my opponent states that even if the peoples’ rights are limited, security is worth it. The people of the world and I disagree. A Boston Globe poll shows that more than 60% of participants say that they value privacy over surveillance for security reasons. Thus, my opponent’s contention ia proven invalid. (https://www.bostonglobe.com...) In conclusion, I have shown that my opponent’s first contention is invalid, as having a powerful military does not confirm security. I did the same for his second and third claims by proving that morale is one of the most important aspects of war and by showing that just because a government protects its people does not mean that they will be content. And I disproved his final contentions with a poll that shows that people most definitely prefer the freedom of rights to extreme security measures."	PRO	827
827	S633bdeb7-Af7f15971	The United States federal government should substantially curtail its domestic surveillance.	"Burdens - Part of the speech act is the plan, i.e in the 1AC when I said ""I think it's imperative that:' - it also accesses the solvency mechanism under Sylvain 14. Whenever we end these corporate ties spun so largely - people are able to spin movements such as all three of the Ks. The AFF is a pre-requisite to each of the alternatives. Mini O/V - Corporations will co-opt all of these, specifically: Queer Theory: Remember the gay marriage decision, and how straight cis males and straight cis females put the rainbow flag on their profile pictures? And all of the shirts made in response to this? Corporations will enact themselves to be like ""Oh hey, the people want this! Lets decide to exploit this!"" Antiblackness - They conceded the Willoughby Herard ev, talking about the Carnegie Corporation - a corporation who had an interest to franchise in governing, and in specific indirect ways (also answers back to cap) when people advocated for black education, Carnegie used a bully pulpit of philanthropy to legitimate racial capitalism. It also fostered a devotion to an oligarchic class, culture, social relations, and interests - all without claiming the antagonisms / aspirations of the WORKING classes / those who labored without the status of worker. Capitalism - Surveillance is the key mechanism of control of consumers - that the capitalist state DEPENDS upon the greatest extraction of a surplus value from production, of course when the objective is to assess undesirable behavior such as the alternative. That's my Campbell / Carlson 2 card. Extinction impacts link back to Queer Theory- Edelman says a little about the state, but he says : when using X to propagandize the Nuclear Family (hetero-normative family) through enactments of fearing death or extinction that creates some hope that oppresses the queer. Case- They don't answer Zuboff correctly - Zuboff talks about how when we act against the State using theoretical attacks, the State will manipulate each of the persons, coercing them (also a part of Lehn with corporations) and forcing them to comply with the law. This means that the AFF has to come first, otherwise the impacts of the K will be repressed. The We the People DA more specifically answers A/B and the colonial impact of the 1NC. Corporations are used as tools to exploit black people and natives. Specifically, in 1787 you had to be a WHITE MALE with PROPERTY (slave, more specifically) JUST to be able to vote. Companies were also used as charters to exploit the Native people perpetrating the social death and life that they lack today. Any of this are caused specifically by corporations being 'people'. --- Framework: My framework actually impact turns the Ks, lets start off on: Symbolic - So they conceded the main point of the Weeks arg, a solvency mechanism inherent to the AFF. It mobilizes the struggle for others in the future - that includes all of their people specified in their Ks, and many Other out there. Tangible Focus Points - They conceded this part of the framework - you should view this a lot more. Education is simply blackmail by the State - whenever we actually take time to explain the discourse of why you should view the speech act as something much less benign than all of the affirmatives you actually have grassroots reforms - also we access fiat: their cards that they talk about link level [Meszaros and Zinn] that we're actually able to go through the courts? Also, Sylvain talks about when either corporate or state acts the people are able to recognize this. That went conceded from the last speech. Answer to education- they say they'll be silenced if you pass the 1AC, no. Corporations are currently SILENCING these bodies, because they control the flow of data. This means the AFF is an impact turn to education, and that's Lehn. C/A any other education based impacts from the other flows. --- Permutation: Connolly - Connolly avoids any of the links because corporate neoliberalism exacerbates hidden vulnerabilities within several lines of flight to reverb in case of rejecting the state or burning the courts. Instead you should identify multiple sites of potential action because a revision in political ideology will reshape the status quo. The impact of the permutation is a new leftist fascism that cedes hegemonic disasters such as: ""extinction, market abstractions are what we become (no value to any life), war, exploitation of natives, poverty, black flesh becoming worthless, rectifying bad power structures, freedom lost for black people, soul murder, a new holocaust ...."" and the impacts of the 1AC (last speech) .. i,e the impact of the K alone is simply it's own repression because the followers become cynical and act as if they are the new state. Them saying that this doesn't avoid their links just simply skews out alternative solvency - their theorization does nothing, as Connolly specifically indicts this theorization, and says that CONCRETE inter-rim strategies are the only way to solve. --- Capitalism - Chong: Chong specifically talks about how corporate interests are put into the desirability of data and accessibility. Otherwise, we have to change this cramped legal understanding. Campbell / Carlson - Look above. --- Antiblackness- Willoughby-Herard (w/ combination of Chomsky) look above for the Willoughby-Herard explanation: They indict Chomsky saying he's an anarchist but that doesn't answer ANY OF THE CARD. The card specifically says: ""So you have to make use of the state, all the time recognizing that you ultimately want to eliminate it"" -- although he's an ANARCHIST he recognizes the State - although terrible; MUST BE USED. --- QT- Case works as the permutation, and again: make them prove more than just a state link. Otherwise, it's all blackmail that serves the purpose of the State and not their movements. --- Specific: Cap - So tell me, how does getting rid of corporate surveillance specifically reentrench cap? What if I used a different solvency mechanism? Actually no, I took the time to research Kovel: Kovel doesn't answer much about the courts or the state at all. Go ahead an c/a Chomsky on this: private powers are much worse. THEY CONCEDE THEMBA NIXON AND PUT THIS ON ALL OF THEIR FLOWS: WE HAVE TO GIVE POLICY MOVEMENTS BEFORE ANY OF THESE: THE K WON'T GO PAST THIS DEBATE SPACE UNLESS : ""Making policy work an integral part of organizing will require a certain amount of retrofitting. We will need to develop the capacity to translate our information, data, and experience into stories that are designed to affect the public conversation. Perhaps most important, we will need to move beyond fighting problems and on to framing solutions that bring us closer to our vision of how things should be"" ALSO THEY CONCEDE GIBSON GRAHAM - THEIR UNIFICATION OF CAPITALISM PROVIDES IT AS THIS MONOLITHIC FIGURE ALLOWING IT TO REJUVENATE ITSELF. THIS IS AN INDEPENDENT DA TO THE ALTERNATIVE BECAUSE IT'S IMPERVIOUS TO PAST REFORMS, AND ALLOWS FOR ANTIBLACKNESS AND QUEER VIOLENCE HAPPENS They also concede that they exclude other violence - the AFF with the K is a lot better. --- A/B - They conceded my Sunstrom 8 card: this is a turn on the K specifically: the focus on A/B skews the interests only to the white elite who already control this scheme of information. That the future will not be solely determined by BLACK AND WHITE politics that the alternative creates. They concede Hooks 96: the ultimate pessimism of the alternative leads to the fatalist and hopeless of those who put themselves in the movement. It props up white supremacy and makes every one of us complicit in spreading the antiblack notions. We have to collectively renew our commitment to a vision of racial equality, which leads me to my Omi & Winant card: The present prospects of racial justice are demoralizing - conditions have changed, yes, but these formations happened under the guise of political mobilizations such as the AFF. Further victories are only allowed through the permutation. Also, they drop the specific indict of their Sexton card: their alternative is VAGUE, and only writes ad hominem attacks - also ignores the HISTORY of racialized development. --- QT - He didn't read my Johnson card. It doesn't say that omitting POC props WhiSup - in QT many LGBTQ+ theorize in the politics of identity, but get grounded in essentialism and dissolves the identity of queers. Just because you say you go for A/B solves for this card really just worsens it for the black body and the queers together. They conceded Kirsch - the decentering of identity provides an overwhelming narrative emphasizing individual resistance that reinforces the same narrative. Queer politics aren""t a root cause "" focus on reproductive futurism can""t explain gay oppression in family life, consumerism, mass culture or religion. Accepting the multiple intersections underscores the necessity of working through political institutions to achieve change. Yes, people in the squo use multiple binaries, but specifically the hetero v non-hetero binary oppresses the non-hetero reinforcing queer violence because it easily allows the HETERO to see the non-hetero and oppress them. None of the affirmative provides for the Nuclear Child's life or reproductivity, so no link. --- AFF SOLVES THE K: They just say the problems have to be stopped now, but what does rejecting the state in the face of the affirmative do? You should view the AFF as an impossible demand that concrete utopian demands necessitate. [Underview] They concede most of my stuff and ignore all of the clash I provide. I hope the explanation and further reading of these cards help, Chomsky overrides the State bad links. I apologize for the wait, and thank you. Note: Anti-blackness isn't meant to be read with other things typically but I can see how the Farley ev works lol"	PRO	828
828	S88fd29eb-Ad06cb913	Debate.org should have its own currency to help Juggle make money	""" Now what if some poor noob gets on for the first time and thinks that he is buying benches for homeless people to sleep on? I, for one, would not like the idea of my money being spent like that."" 1) Only an idiot would think that 2) It would be an option on the home page in the bottom left corner it wouldnt take up the whole screen 3) What do you have against helping the homeless? Earning Bench's ""1. I see a problem with this. With the amount of debates in the voting period, you could get mass amounts of bench's in almost no time."" First off, we need more people to vote on debates, most of us cant even have a debate without having to put it on life support in the ""vote on this"" thread in the forums. Second, It takes a lot of voting to get Bench's to buy anything, and the stuff you can buy isnt worth that much, so spamming wont bring down the site. ""2. How about the misc spamming forums? I can easily sit at my computer hitting Ctr-v and clicking over and over to gain bench's."" Not all posts can be the same so you have to make something different each time. Also the amount of Bench's you get per post is miniscule so it would be hard to get anything by spamming the forums. ""3 & 4. Spam debates and useless arguments."" Those are ban-worthy offenses on the site already, so that isnt an option because you would be kicked off of DDO ""6. Same as 2."" You get 1 Bench for updating your profile information, you need 1000 to buy ANYTHING. (For the record, number 5 was uncontested) ============================================================================ Spending these Bench's and what they would cause ============================================================================ 1) Legalized Prostitution "" I am sorry, i do not want to see Imabench's green balls"" Neither does anyone else which is why people wont pay me to post a pic of them.... Only porn in high demand would be available "" It would also send all the llamas, who cant comprehend sex, on a killing frenzy."" All the llamas left the site due to trolling by Askbob, that wont be an issue 2) Extra Character Space ""What if you are debating a newbie to the site, and he hasn't earned the bench's yet?"" If your debating a noob and you need 9,000 characters, you need to fix your arguments. Also, if you want to waste those hard earned points on a noob debate rather than a legit one then thats your choice.... 3) Buying 1 point votes for your own debates ""So you can vote for yourself?"" If you have a sh*t load of Bench's then yeah "" This would be highly unbalancing in terms of how many wins people that accept a lot of debates get "" If people vote on them though then this wont be an issue since 1 point barely changes anything in debates. It would be used on debates that havent gotten any votes. 4) Changing your name People cant just ""roll with it"", you should be able to change your name to what you want it to be and with this program people can do that without confusing the hell out of people too much. 5) Buying Bench's with actual money ""WHAT THE HELL. Who would ever think that buying power for money is a good thing?"" Youre not buying power your buying Bench's that can only be used on a few things that by themselves could not automatically win somebody a debate. ""What if im a hobo who lives as one with the pangolins in Hoboland, and can only afford to keep my internet access running?"" Unlikely, you should probably get a job though ya hippie. "" Look, someone just spent a Sextillion dollars to get votes. It would snowball out of effect."" Its one point per debate, you need at least 4 to change any debate, and buying 4 points in votes costs 20,000 Bench's, and you can only make 100 at a time. And if someone really wants to spend that kind of money just to win a debate, then they are only getting Juggle more and more interested in the site which helps all of us. ============================================================================ Con's lame a** idea ============================================================================ ""it is simply a way of tracking how much a user is contributing"" We already have something that does that for us, http://www.debate.org... ""At the end of the month, the user with the most points is allowed to ask for one person to be, as you called it, a ""prostitute"""" You give me sh*t about legalizing prostitution and then do the same thing when you make a program??? D*ck move dude, d*ck move My idea is better because it helps people become better debaters and helps Juggle take more interest in the site."	PRO	829
829	Sea6e1c46-A779562ae	A just government should provide health care to its citizens.	"I will be arguing the affirmative side of a just government should provide health care to its citizens. Martin Luther king jr. once said; ""that Of all the forms of inequality, injustice in health care is the most shocking and inhumane."" If the people, our people the ones we promised to take care of and protect are complaining that our system of healthcare is unjust then why shouldn't we do something about it? I would like to start out by giving a few definitions. The definition of healthcare according to merriam-webster.com is; efforts made to maintain or restore health especially by trained and licensed professionals. Government according to dictionary.com is; the political direction and control exercised over the actions of the members, citizens, or inhabitants of communities, societies, and states; direction of the affairs of a state, community, etc.; political administration. A citizen is a native or naturalized member of a state or nation who owes allegiance to its government and is entitled to its protection. (dictionary.com) My value is justice. Justice is the quality of being just; righteous; or having a moral rightness: to uphold the justice of a cause. My v.c is maximizing justice. Because I want to stress the fact that justice is only fair. We as a government are obligated to uphold the safety and wellbeing of our citizens, because if we don't protect them who will. My first contention is that the government does have a moral obligation to the people. And knowing this we should be willing to do everything in our power to uphold it. Like I mentioned before if we don't take care of our people who will? Jonathan Cohn wrote ""I DON'T WANT America to begin rationing care to their citizens in the way these other countries do."" All Jonathan wants is the best healthcare he can get. He doesn't want our government to follow the crowd he wants us to be different to be more unique after all we are the United States of America. So why not give him the best healthcare that we can provide. No we won't be perfect at first but at least we can say we tried, and are still trying to provide not only Jonathan but all of our citizens with the best possible health care. So by upholding our duty to the people we are not only strengthening our government but are making our citizen happy which should be what we are striving for. Jonathan is not the only person suffering from not having good health care. Different women around the world got together and made a blog expressing their situations. For example there is a 55 year old lady who suffers from Migraines. She's been diagnosed with an episodic type rheumatoid arthritis. She has a bad back and a hysterectomy...ALL making her uninsurable on private insurance UNLESS her employer covers. The same lady's husband is 62 and has suffered from depression and is totally managed with medication and just went through renal failure 2 years ago… out of work for 6 months. He is now uninsurable. The lady said; ""My boss has been covering us on a small business plan that was not so great at $1000 a month for each family (his and mine). Last year it was raised to $2000 a month per family (TWO PEOPLE) on a business policy! We had to cut benefits. Now for $1500/mo. We have a $5000 per person per year deductible. With no dental, vision and prescription at $50 PER prescription for ONLY generic. They will not cover any new drug at all....Those migraines? I get 9 pills a month allotted by the insurance. NINE PILLS - 4 headaches worth. If I need more? It is $306.50 for 9 more! I cannot afford to go to any doctor since my co-pay is $50 per visit. I haven't had more than a 20 cent raise in 5 years because of my healthcare policy. My boss cannot afford both. So they are killing me and killing his family too."" This is just one of many people who have suffered from having little or no healthcare; as a government who is supposed to assist people in every way possible needs to do their part in assisting these people with getting healthcare. My second contention is if we don't listen to our citizens then we will end up like those overseas. Sure everyone would have insurance but when it comes to simple healthcare we would have none. Meaning that people would have to wait hours just to be seen by a doctor who isn't that qualified. This would cause our citizens to die faster. From the years 2000-2006 137,000 people from the ages 25-64 have died from the lack of health care or being uninsured.(https://docs.google.com... ) and just recently in 2009 CNN did a story about how 45,000 American deaths associated with lack of insurance. If we as a government were doing what we were supposed to do the number of people dying from a sickness that can be cured wouldn't be as high. Like I've mentioned before we have a duty as a government to keep our people safe. That includes making sure that they have the best healthcare that we can provide. But finally ""…after a century of striving, after a year of debate, after a historic vote, health care reform is no longer an unmet promise. It is the law of the land. (Barack Obama) by this being one of top priority's now our people won't have to worry as much about dying from a simple cold, or even the chicken pox."	PRO	830
830	S633bdeb7-Ab586ded3	The United States federal government should substantially curtail its domestic surveillance.	"Burdens - the affirmative says that the only reason to vote aff is the speech act of the 1AC. Therefore, any permutations that they offer to us aren't defensible, since they say that you can only vote based off of what was already said. Case So, aff says that their 'chilling effect' DA and their 'we the people' DA necessarily have to outweigh the impacts of all of my kritiks. The chilling effect has the threat of racism, and we the people has the impact of us becoming more weak in the eyes of the law. But my kritiks all have much stronger impacts and much more focused impacts than just becoming weak: extinction, market abstractions are what we become (no value to any life), war, exploitation of natives, poverty, black flesh becoming worthless, rectifying bad power structures, freedom lost for black people, soul murder, a new holocaust ... these are far outweighing of what he claims to be important impacts. Permutation The aff says that they can permutate and take in all of my kritiks. How can you take 'burn down' the courts while defending the court's existence? How can you not continue the idea of the state, while all at the same time rely on its existence? How can we reject the use of the court, while depending on it? I'll go kritik by kritik and explain why permutation is not logical. Capitalism- You may say that you are taking power from the corporations and that you are solving for my kritik within your own case. However, as Rakesh Bhandhari points out ( “Poverty and Capitalism by Barbara Harriss-White”, 4/11/06), all reform must exist from outside the system - this means that reform can only happen outside of the courts! Deconstructing capitalism must occur outside the system—reform within capitalism results in a fill-in of state institutions undermining the alternative. So, you can't just say ""permutate"" and get out of it - you logically just cannot permutate my kritik. Afropessimism- Terrell Anderson Taylor 2013 (“OPTIMISM AND PESSIMISM IN TWENTIETH CENTURY AFRICAN AMERICAN LITERATURE"") points out to us that you can't just say that you are going to solve for any of the impacts of this kritik. He would back me up in saying that their leftist discourse utilizes blackness as means for carrying out their own agenda -- serves to further white domination and black suffering. So trying to have this political discourse further attacks the black flesh that you are further oppressing! Queer Theory- They continue to use political discourse when approaching the topic. They say they permutate my alternative, but they completely drop that they can't use this kind of discourse in the debate, making them concede Queer Theory in the end. Affirmative solves the Kritik We need to solve all of these issues right now. We can't just sit back and oppress black flesh or create power to the courts to go to war if the corporate interests deem it to be necessary and to continue the soul murder of millions. Once the 1AC passes, the courts have the power over the people - there is no longer a grassroots movement. The courts continue all of these bad things, that you conceded with my kritik, answering only my alternative but not my link nor my impacts. Theory All you gave was an interperetation of what should go on in today's round. But you forget why we should care about education or all of these things ... surely you have education if you are learning that giving power to the courts results in mass murder and war and soul desecration! And I guess I don't know where to put this other stuff, but since you put it under a framework, I'll continue in theory. So you say that we only need symbollic reforms because they lead us to all of these good things ... extend my author that says that liberal reform is inherently bad (not liberal as in left-wing, liberal as in philosophical). While policy may provide an issue to rally around, it gives insurmountable power to corporations as they exist, which leads us to the ability to not continue to critique their actions! Soon we will be silenced if we pass the 1AC. ""Fear of getting shut down"" doesn't mean that we can't lead a coop against the government or lead to a change in the power structures as they exist today ... look to my alternatives. Specific kritik answers Capitalism- They say that we have to look further than just the court or reform ... but that's a major link that a huge amount of authors have touched upon. They say we need to disregard my arguments because they don't like courts or reform, but policy debate doesn't exist to fulfill what you like, it is to have a change and talk about the change ... when the change is inherently bad, we can't do it. Then they say that Kovel doesn't talk about the courts ... he does. Like, I don't know the point of just saying that he doesn't when he clearly does. I conceded part of the affirmative, just the inherency since I don't want to fight that for time. The affirmative furthers corporatism because it gives power to the corporations, because it gives more power to the courts! Read my capitalism kritik again. You can cite as many more authors as you want, that doesn't change the fact that you inherently give more power to the courts. You cannot permutate. You cannot do anything but impact analysis from here. Antiblackness- I already answered the permutation. Chomsky is irrelevant - he says that the state is always bad so we need to get rid of it (further, he is actually an anarchist! Read more on your authors before you cite them). While it may be true there is more corporate power as we see it, there is power hidden in the courts if we affirm. Queer Theory- The dichotomy isn't the hetero vs. the non-hetero - it is what society affirms and doesn't affirm. For example, the celibate become queer, as they cannot give into this future-oriented child politics. Then they say that my kritik affirms white supremacy because it doesn't mention queer POC, but what does that even mean? Look to afropessimism, I talked a lot about black flesh, it follows that I affirm both black and nonblack queer flesh. Them pointing out that I need to consider the queer POC means that they concede that just focusing on the queer is correct, but needs to be corrected more (although, I have acheived perfection!). Basically, their entire response doesn't attack anything of my kritiks - they drop my impacts, links, etc ... they try to permutate but fail to see that their plan is incompatible with my alternatives that they are necessarily permutating. They can't see any of the 1AC because it is just so inherently flawed ... we can't coop destruction and unification - we need to deny their access to the 1AC and vote neg. Thank you."	CON	831
831	S6de6bca4-A968a6c21	Which is more moral? Man or YOUR god of the bible or torah? Take a morality test to find out its man	"Before I begin I just want to say that I think this is an interesting topic to argue, and I am looking forward to the debate. I just want to extend a bit of cordiality to Backwardseden. Thank you for the opportunity to debate, and hopefully some truth in unearthed here. The framework of my argument will be the following: An individual may possess objective morals through his or her religion, while society, which will always be home to people who do not share that religion, cannot hold objective moral truths. 1)Penalties for sins outlined by the bible a.The context of the verse nullifies the question: The verse in Leviticus which condemns blasphemy is from the Old Testament of the Bible. The Old Testament outlines the covenant that the Christian God held with humanity before the resurrection. This was overwritten by the new testament, which basically installs grace as a tenant of Christianity. The Christian definition of grace states that God""s son took the penalties outlined in the old testament, and there for any condemnation and its penalty was removed. This means that blasphemy, as well as any form of sin, cannot be condemned by man, and for believers will not be condemned by God. Thus, the answer to the question proposed is no. b.Point A extends to the questions on working on the Sabbath, cursing at one""s parents, committing adultery, being homosexual, and idolatry. It is worth noting that homosexuality is a contentious point for Christians, as many see it as a deal breaker. However, this is not the case because whether you use the Pope""s statement that it is fine to be part of the LGBTQ, or whether you follow the traditional view that it falls into the category of idolatry. The fact is that the Bible and more specifically the New Testament makes no distinction that there is any special penalty for homosexuality, or being any part of the LGBTQ, as the aforementioned definition of grace supersedes any opinion that a given church may hold. Following this, no human following Christianity can possibly rule on any of these issues on God""s behalf. Additionally, whether or not these are sins in the first place, is a moral issue, one which society can never take an absolute stance on, thus showing that man is incapable of being moral by definition. c.A belief of Christianity is that non-believers should not, and cannot be held to the beliefs of Christianity, because justice belongs to God. This means that the question that any action should be taken on behalf of the Christian God by any person can be answered with the simple truth no person can deliver justice on God""s behalf. Thus, the answer is no. d.Concluding that man is not moral compared to God for this contention: First, man as a whole (society) being unable to establish 100% objective moral truth due to inevitably differing beliefs, cannot be more moral than a being who is defined as the origin of all moral truth. Secondly, man is unable to deliver justice on Gods behalf, as man's justice is never 100% correct, and therefore, man cannot be more moral than God. 2)On the conclusion of Moral Bankruptcy a.I am a Christian, and I have answered no to every single question, based not on my own morals, but morals which I take from Christianity. Because of this, I conclude that I am not more moral than my God. b.While some Christians may answer yes to these, such answers would not be founded on the Moral truths given by God, and so they would be making such condemnations based on the morals of man. By the logic of the assertion made by my opponent in his conclusion, this would make man morally bankrupt and corrupt. While God""s morals may define these issues as sin, he doesn't condemn or levy any penalty to anyone while on earth, because of grace. No matter what people say about God punishing evil deeds on earth, that fact is that a core Christian belief "" Grace "" dictates that judgment is reserved for the afterlife. Finally, for believers, no condemnation is levied for any of these issues because of the resurrection. The final conclusion of this contention is that man is less moral than the Christian God. Conclusion: Since man has no objective morality on its own, and God by definition has a single moral code which no man can use to condemn another man, and since I have answered ""no"" to all my opponents question as per the rules defined by my opponent, It must be concluded for this first round that the my God (the Christian God) is indeed more Moral than Man. One anecdote for the road: Members of the LGBTQ have died at the hands of man, but God died for the life of both."	CON	832
832	Se3d210c2-Ad1a46cd0	Resolved: The US should remove its tactical nuclear weapons from Turkey	During the Cold War the US placed intermediate ranged nuclear missiles, as well as nuclear bombs in Turkey. They have remained there ever since. These nuclear weapons do not serve any tactical or strategic purpose and in fact they impede national consensus on non-proliferation. This is my first time using this website so please excuse any faux pas that I may make. I think it would also be interesting to include a questioning round. I believe that this round setup will provide for the best debate: Round one: Acceptance Round two: Each side presents his/her argument without acknowledgeing the other sides arguments. There should be no refutation. Round three: Each side presents the other with three questions based on the arguments presented in round 2 (No questions will be answered in round 3). Round four: Each side answers the others questions. Round five: Each side will present his/her closing arguments and final pieces of evidence, refutation, ect. Example: R 1 Pro: Hi. Con: Hello. R 2 Pro: I believe cats are good because a, b and c. Con: I believe dogs are best because a, b and c. R 3 Pro: Do dogs really do A? Are cats or dogs cleaner? Which animal requires more time? Con: Which animal is more loyal? Are cats or dogs more intelligent? Which animal is friendlier? R 4 Pro: I conceede that dogs are more loyal. Both cats and dogs show similar levels of intelligence. However I believe that cats are friendlier. Con: I have seen dogs do A. Cats are cleaner. Dogs may require more time than cats. R 5 Pro: Even though dogs are more loyal cats are friendlier and dogs take more time ect. Con:Dogs are loyal companions and are worth the time, cats may be friendlier but a dog can protect you ect. Obviously this example is over simplified but I just wanted to be as clear as possible. And I couldn't include any evidence in the example but in the real debate evidence should be included. If you think that this style of debate is confusing or unnecessary, just say so in the opening round and we can just use the basic debate format. Thanks and good luck!	PRO	833
833	S388394f5-Aa151f271	Resolved: a nation's citizens' rights ought to take precedence over its security.	"I will now respond to my opponent's opening arguments. Rebuttals: Opponent's Contention I: ""Surveying and compiling data on people violates their liberty."" I disagree. Realistically, the observation of the citizens by the government makes virtually no difference in the citizens' daily lives. Did you change your behavior when you found out that the NSA monitors your every text, email and Google search? Of course not, because it simply does not affect us in our daily lives. While I agree that there is a risk of the data being abused, my opponent has provided no real evidence to support this as a plausible scenario. Opponent's Contention II: ""As a result, however, the living condition of people went down, and the corruption in the new Soviet Union went up."" I request a source for both of these claims. In fact, I'd like to directly contest your first point by saying that under Stalin's centralized government, women were given equal rights in terms of employment and education. Advancement in the field of healthcare increased the average lifespan of Russians, and most of the Russians had universal access to hospitals and medicines. The prevalence of some dreaded diseases of those times, like cholera and malaria, dropped to record low numbers. This does not sound like a decrease in living standards. http://www.buzzle.com... ""The state [North Korea] has tried to cut itself off from the outside world, but has only managed to all but destroy its population."" I would like a source for this claim as well. ""Therefore, when countries value security over rights, the eventually slip into corruption and abuse of those rights."" I would like to note that in this contention, my opponent failed to establish a link between SECURITY and abuse of human rights. He has only attempted establish a link between authoritarian governments and the abuse of human rights. My opponent states that "" Many countries over the years have tried to make themselves as secure as possible. Unfortunately, these countries turn into authoritarian powers..."" as a link between authoritarianism, military strength and the abuse of human rights, but this is not necessarily true. Take the US for example, which has an enormous military spending, yet is usually considered the opposite of authoritarian and/or abusive of human rights. Opponent's Contention III: My opponent first lists several incidents of terrorist attacks and then concludes ""These facts show that the surveillance of citizens is not working."" This is completely false logic. That's like saying that because we still get sick, that medicine/vaccines don't work. Security measures such as surveillance are by no means guaranteed to obliterate every trace of crime, but they do indeed decrease it. Surveillance cameras, for example, can be found in many public areas, but crime still occurs. Does this mean that surveillance cameras don't work? No, and studies have shown that surveillance cameras can decrease crime rate by up to 50%. http://journalistsresource.org... My opponent here also fails to take into account additional factors that could affect the rate of terrorist attacks, such as the rise of organizations like ISIS or general sympathy towards particularly aggressive sects of a religion. Also, the overall mental health/access to weapons of a nation's individuals has not been considered. My opponent's third contention is faulty in several important ways, that results in it being invalid. I would like to note that my opponent's first two contentions are...sort of irrelevant. He is trying to prove that personal rights should take precedence over national security, and his first two contentions are essentially that ""security often decreases personal rights"". It merely tries to show that increased security can often mean decreased personal rights, which is irrelevant to this debate because it doesn't show WHY that's bad or WHY it shouldn't be that way. He should be arguing that ""a nation's citizens' rights OUGHT to take precedence over its security"", not: when security DOES take precedence, it decreases citizens' rights. I hope this makes sense and I hope all participants understand why my opponent's first two points are in the wrong direction, and why the third is simply faulty."	CON	834
834	S40d0b8cb-Acacc50aa	Resolved: The USFG should replace its welfare program with a Negative Income Tax	"Thanks for the argument Pro. The main problem with a negative income tax is that takes away incentives for people to want to help themselves. Professor Friedman even said that ""like any other measure to relieve poverty, it reduces the incentives of those helped to help themselves"" (https://mises.org...). A negative income tax would not solve this problem. While the current welfare system has a similar issue, the whole point of this debate is to show that a negative income tax should replace the current system. I mean, since a negative income tax guarantees a basic income that disappears as taxpayers earn more money, it takes away reasons for people to work. Another major problem with the negative income tax is that it cannot provide an income guarantee as generous as the cash and in-kind benefits already available to many welfare recipients in the United States. Jodie Allen, a senior writer with U.S. News and World Report, wrote that ""the welfare system already provides a package of cash and in-kind benefits that, in many states, is worth considerably more than any likely NIT"" (http://www.econlib.org...). My opponent starts off their argument by saying that ""NIT would eliminate Food stamps as people would be able to spend their money on whatever they please. This would increase market efficiency as they would buy anything they want and many things they would have been unable to buy under the status quo."" While food stamps have led to some problems, taking them away would create a whole new set of problems. If people choose to spend money on things that aren't food, and then they need food, there will have to be some other system to fix that problem that the negative income tax couldn't. So I wouldn't say that taking away food stamps increases market efficiency. It would still create that huge problem. My opponent then states that ""Another baffle in the system of welfare has been that of Section 8 Housing. The system started off with good intention, but has began to degrade as waiting lists became longer and the Neighborhoods that they were moved into became poorer and poorer and filled with more and more violence."" I happen to agree with that statement. However the negative income tax would not do anything to fix the problem. The Seattle-Denver Experiment's problem is that while it did think about welfare programs already in place, ""the generosity of most of the tested plans made them unlikely to be replicated on a national scale, and more complicated to analyze"" (http://www.econlib.org...). The Stanford Research Institute actually analyzed the Seattle-Denver findings and they apparently ""found stronger work disincentive effects, ranging from an average 9 percent work reduction for husbands to an average 18 percent reduction for wives"" (http://www.econlib.org...). So it has been proven that the negative income tax creates the problem of people no longer desiring to work. The Stanford Research Institute also found that that ""instead of promoting family stability (the presumed result of extending benefits to two-parent working families on an equal basis), the NITs seemed to increase family breakup."" So the negative income tax has more problems then its advocates realize. My opponent asserts that ""NIT provides an incentive to work while they may still receive benefits from the government. While on comparison, at no income, they would receive $10,000 vs. welfare's $16,800, assuming it's a family of 4, but as the work increases, the NIT stays and they earn additional income while they would normally lose welfare."" I fail to see the logic here. Maybe I am misunderstanding something but if the welfare system is replaced by the negative income tax, what government benefits is my opponent referring to that would somehow be an incentive for working? Lastly, my opponent writes that ""Under the NIT system, the medium African-American family would receive $7,250 while the Hispanic-American family would receive $6,575. Both of which would help these families out of Poverty. This is a key thing and would be doing more to help in the 'War on Poverty' than the program we currently have."" My opponent is going to have to do a lot more than to give a bare assertion like that in order to prove his point. The problem with the minorities is that they are getting less pay. The main issue here isn't that their benefits aren't good enough. My opponent wants to give the minorities 6,500 dollars but that hardly does anything to solve the main issue they pointed out in the first place. We need to balance the wages; not give more benefits that only temporarily fixes the problem. Besides, giving people around 6,500 dollars does not get anyone out of poverty. In conclusion, the negative income tax does not deserve to replace the current welfare system since it really doesn't solve many of the problems that already exist. I thank my opponent again for a good round and I look forward to the next one. Sources: a. https://mises.org... b. http://economics21.org... c. http://www.nationalreview.com... d. http://inequality.stanford.edu..."	CON	835
835	Sb7a141ac-Abbf0a1c	The U.S is losing its cachet as a global superpower.	"Forgive me if my argument seems incoherent and jumps all over the place because I just took Nyquil for my bronchitis. I am going to keep this short. I guess you're for the War on Terror. The situation in Iraq isn't getting better. America doesn't know when we're going to start pulling the troops out because it might start another round of violence just when things have started quieting down. Iraq is very much a quagmire like Vietnam. Iraq was more stable before we went in. If you recall, the reason we went into Iraq was to remove Saddam Hussein from power because he was perceived to be a threat to us. However, that theory never panned out because they never found WMDs. According to the documents that the Bush administration has released, we're in Iraq due to faulty intelligence. We did not go in to spread democracy. By the way, terrorist organizations only came into Iraq when it was unstable. Terrorist organizations like Al Qaeda didn't thrive under Saddam Hussein. I disagree with the notion that America has gotten stronger and more powerful as the century marches on. America is faltering in a sense. As Condoleezza Rice has said America has no ""permanent enemies,"" but it has no permanent friends either. Unilateralism doesn't work any more. Sure, it may have served us in the past but it doesn't work now. For example, the first Gulf War was only hugely successful because we had the help of other nations. The new global order and new superpowers I'm talking about are China, European Union, and the United States. The U.S is no longer the huge 800-pound gorilla in the room. None of them dominate over each other. I guess the U.S will have to share the spotlight with the EU and China. Are you familiar with the geopolitical market? The EU sees themselves as the mediator between America and China. The EU is doing much better than the U.S as of late. For example, each year, the EU opens up a new oil route to transport oil from Libya, Algeria or Azerbaijan to Europe. As my political science professor once said: ""What other superpower grows by an average of one country per year, with others waiting in line and begging to join?"" Certainly, not the U.S. As a matter of fact, Turkey has been stepping up efforts to join the E.U but they have refused to align with the U.S. As you may recall from 2003, Turkey refused to let the U.S use its airspace in the invasion of Iraq. Also, Turkey receives almost 20 BILLION dollars a year in investments from the EU. At this point, Turkey might be more reliant on Europe. Furthermore, the EU market is the world's largest. European technologies are setting the global standard and Europe gives the most in aid for developing nations. As a sign of America's weakness in the global economy, the dollar has sunk to new lows against the euro. According to my calculations, a dollar is only worth 0.68 euro. That says a lot about how far we've fallen. Currently, London reigns supreme as the world's financial capital for stock listing. Even the Chinese companies are choosing to list their stocks in London as opposed to New York. America's share of the global exchange market has dropped to 65%. Third-world countries no longer want to emulate the U.S. For example, take the African Union that was recently created. The U.S is simply having difficulties with the rise of Europe. For example, the E.U was invited to the EAC meetings while the U.S was not. China is a rising global superstar in its own right. China is on its way to the top through strategic alliances with third-world countries that the U.S doesn't want to do business with. There are several 'rogue nations' that have a lifeline from China. Since you want to talk about statistics, studies have shown that China is exporting weapons at a clip the Soviet Union used to export during the Cold War. As an affront to America, China is planning to launch their own regional monetary fund with Japanese support. Asia has become less and less dependent on the U.S due to in part by China's spectacular rise. There are several trade organizations that have spring up in Asia over the year with the most notable of them being ASEAN. China asserts its influence in the Asian economy by lowering tariffs and lending money to the poorer nations. For the record, many Asian nations are aligning themselves with China as opposed to the US with the exception of Taiwan. Political scientists have noticed that they are balancing against the US. From what I've noticed, these superpowers will be feuding over the new second-world countries. It's going to be similar to the Cold War when we were feuding with Russia for countries not to turn Communist."	PRO	836
836	Sedc07ef6-Ae13c0918	Goto College or follow your dreams( when your family deems you a failure and closeminded.)	i totally agree, but what you think about parents who do this to their children	PRO	837
837	Sedc07ef6-Afa2e3917	Goto College or follow your dreams( when your family deems you a failure and closeminded.)	I say that you must follow your dreams. Your parents as parents should not prioritize the career they picked out for you over your happiness. If they are, then they should have a good reason to and it has to be discussed for the child to understand. If they don't, then maybe they just want the money you'll get out of an expensive career. I mean, would you want to work a job that you never wanted to have in the first place every day of your working life?	CON	838
838	Sedc07ef6-A189eaed6	Goto College or follow your dreams( when your family deems you a failure and closeminded.)	Yep. It doesn't have to be high-paying unless you want to get rich, but if you really don't want to go through boredom every day of your life, pick something you want to do. My mistake, I assumed we were on different sides.	CON	839
839	S7521a41d-A5bce5518	Experts Tier round 2: Is there any hope that the US can eliminate its national debt in our lifetimes	"I would like to thank my opponent for their arguments. I will dive right into this. To help keep things organized, I will use the tags that they did. The arguments that they applied against my R2 will be addressed in the appropriate tag. 1) Political Dichotomy in Congress My opponent claims that congress is more divided now than ever, while this may or may not be true, the point is irrelevant to the resolution. We must remember that by my opponent""s own admission, we were able to achieve a balanced budget less than 15 years ago. Politics had extreme polarity back then, and at all times in the past, just because it is more polarize now, does not mean that cuts cannot happen, or that taxes cannot go up. Nor does it mean that we will stay this polarized for the next 40+ years. My opponent also claims that republicans will never accept cuts to the military, he says specifically, ""The GOP flat out hates reducing military spending"""" This doesn""t matter at all. My opponent has already accepted that over the last 2 years that the military spending has dropped 5% (5.4% to be precise, or 10.4% when adjusted for inflation, [3, from R2] and it is expected to continue going down for as long as the forecast goes out). Just like with the legalization of marijuana and the recognition of gay marriage (let me know if you need sources for current events), even if the GOP doesn""t want to see it happen, if there is support from the people, the GOP will have to, or lose power. And as I""ve already shown, there is growing support to cuts to military spending. The same reasoning holds for social security, medicare, and medicaid, but substitute in democrats rather than republicans. This kind of belong in its own section, but since it is often linked to political stubbornness, I""ll put it in here. My opponent accepted that the retirement age can be raised to 69, but commented that we will continue to live longer. Obviously we can always re-adjust it. However, the source that I originally linked, suggested changing to 69 years old and having an automated adjustment factor so it updates on its own. That is a nifty idea, but it is more of the fine details. This debate is about whether or not there is any hope that this can be done. 2) Events My opponent listed several instances that we were able to balance the budget, but these balances ultimately unbalanced due to external events. Of all the instances that he provided, only one was not ended due to war. Of course, cutting our military spending would be linked to taking a more non-interventionist policy. Most of the cases were us intervening, or a reaction to our intervention. We took that role up in the 50""s and 60""s largely because of the results of WW2 which left most of Europe unable to take actions. That is no longer the case so we no longer need to be the dominant military force. We can have a significantly smaller force that contributes to a global force. That way, we can still play a role in the wars that my opponent ""guarantees"" (which I would argue as the world continues to become a less violent place, as far as wars go). 3) Not enough time Our time limit was 70 years. The plan I provided would be done in 23 years. My opponent did not disagree with any of the math involved. I also did not do anything in regards to raising taxes. We can modify just the spending side. Even if we don""t accept the instant cuts to military spending, if we continue with military cuts that we are currently going (10.4% every 2 years, or about 5% per year), then with the Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid cuts and cutting the military 5% per year for the next 5 years would allow us to be paid off with in 27 years instead of 23. Throw a recession or two in there and each may set us back 5 years or so, but we can still be done well within the 70 year limit. 4) Owes more than exists This is a non sequitur on several levels. First being, that the total assets in the US are $188 trillion [1]. Cash, or ""money"" is only one form of asset designed to be extremely liquidable. So the idea that the debt is greater than all the moneys is false, it is just that most assets are not in the form of cash. Second, because debt is paid off over time, not all at once, the same dollar can be used multiple times as it is used through transactions in the economy. A very basic example may be if I have a debt and I pay $1 dollar (I""d pay more than $1 dollar, but let""s just follow the journey of that one dollar bill). That dollar goes to my debtee, who then uses it to pay one of their employees. That employee buys something from craigslist from me. I can then take that same $1 and pay it towards my debt again. So that $1 has been applied towards $2 of debt. As money circulates around and around, it gets involved in the transactions of far more than the dollar itself is worth (that is the purpose of having highly liquidable currency, so transactions occur more smoothly). So even if there isn""t that much cash that has been printed, a debt can still be paid off. [1] http://rutledgecapital.com..."	PRO	840
840	Se3d210c2-A4c140d72	Resolved: The US should remove its tactical nuclear weapons from Turkey	"I want to take time to try and address the main arguments of my opponents case starting with his argument of how the weapons provide political deterrent and are a symbolic gesture. He tells us, I quote, ""Under NATO's policy of nuclear deterrence, the nuclear weapons serve as a political deterrent from nations and factions from attacking the Turkish nation"". However because I proved and he ceded the point that the weapons serve no tactical importance, if we really had Turkeys best interest in mind we would provide the Turkish government with a way to actually physically deter an enemy, not simply seem powerful. Then when the con side says that ""The gesture of the US to loan nuclear weapons to NATO allies is significant since it prevents the US from simply saying to turkey in times of Turkish strife, ""yeah, we'll support you."" while not even deploying its military"" its a little bit ironic because by giving Turkey nuclear weapons while not providing them with a way to use the weapons does just that. Its an empty symbolic gesture because in Turkeys time of need they would still need to ask for Americans support. Then the con side talks of assisting NATO allies and furthering NATO cohesion but I am forced to believe that Mr. Rayze actually knows very little about NATO. If he had actually taken the time to understand basic NATO policy he would realize that for over ten years NATO's stance has been in support of non-proliferation. NATO has been doing everything they can to STOP the spread of nuclear weapons, not support it. We will know that our relationship with Turkey is truly that of allies when we can base our relationship on more than just shared weapons. Then if we look to how Mr. Rayze responded to some of my questions we can see that he is taking a very one sided look at this issue. When he says that ""the wrath of NATO implied through the Nuclear Weapons stationed in Turkey send a much clear message to aggressors that Turkey is not alone"" he continues to miss the point that implied force does not save lives. Except for the bombs dropped on Japan, no nuclear weapon has ever been used in war. The idea that NATO would allow the use of nuclear weapons in response to small, isolated conflicts between Turkey and its Middle Eastern neighbors is inane. Mr. Rayze then brings up the point that the problem lies in the fact that the removal of the weapons would strain relations between the US and Turkey, and I agree with him on this. But I believe that if we took the several billion dollars that we spent on the nukes and spent that money on supporting their military, healthcare system and actually making progress for the people of Turkey then in the long run our relationship will grow even stronger. This is because there is one enemy that nuclear weapons cannot target; terrorists. The U.S. National Library of Medicine writes that terrorism is a growing issue in Turkey. Between 1984 and 2000 an estimated 30,000 to 35,000 Turkish citizens were killed by a nearly continuous stream of terrorism-related events [1]. It is impossible to use nukes against small terror cells regardless of what way you cut it. The Turkish government has recently begun to take a more aggressive approach to fighting terrorism and has deployed special forces troops to fight terror through cross boarder strikes [2]. By actually working with the Turkish government and supporting them in operations like these, whether it be through providing troops to work with their soldiers, giving them equipment necessary to fight terror and secure there boarders or giving them financial aid to allow them to implement public health programs or support education, removing the nukes and instead using that money will work to further the American goals of fighting terror and the Turkish goals of making their country safer. Mr. Rayze and I both want the same thing actually, we want want to find a practical answer to the question of ""how do we help Turkey"". Because removing our nuclear bombs from Turkey provides more advantages than leaving them there ever could, you must side not only with me but also with the country of Turkey. Thank you Mr. Rayze for giving me the opportunity to debate something that I believe is important. The best of luck to you in whatever you choose to do in the future, Frost [1] http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov... [2] http://www.turkishweekly.net..."	PRO	841
841	Sb0b23714-A7c751048	Naruto is overrated, and is average at its best	"Naruto isn't useless, he was instrumental in a number of fights including Haku and Gaara. It's very easy to feel bad for him, after all, he's an orphan, which is why he pretends to be arrogant. He constantly feels grief, and shame in himself, so he puts himself out as an arrogant bastard. As far as the luck thing goes, the affirmative only provided one instance where this was true. 2. The main character is a tailed beast, so it stands to reason that the tailed beasts would be the center of the story. Additionally, the show wouldn't make any sense if Naruto just randomly had more karma than anybody else. Not to mention, his tailed beast is what sets him apart from all of the other characters. 3. I'm not sure what the affirmative was trying to say here other than killing off characters is bad. Kimimaro was a very sad character, and you could easily see why he was doing what he did. I agree that Orochimaru dying without a fight was a bit lame, but that doesn't make his death any less satisfying. The reason only two heroes have died is because the writer obviously doesn't want to start murdering all of his protaganists unless he's planning on ending the series. As far as Itachi, it was worth it, mainly because Itachi provided all of Sasuke's motivation, and was also the source of all of Sasuke's character development. 4. Next, the affirmative says that the writer is unoriginal. He probably used a real ramen place as a shout out or an easter egg for anybody who recognized the name. As far as the sannin being part of mythology, this is just the writer putting a more modern and interesting spin on old mythology. As far as Sasuke being a real ninja name, this show is about ninjas. It stands to reason that the writer would want to use an established ninja name. It's like if we made a medieval movie, we would probably name the king Arthur because it's a name that everybody is familiar with. Not to mention, the Affirmative already admitted that it didn't make the show bad, but that there is a ""quality dip,"" when the writer began using his own imagination. Does the aff wish for the entire anime to be based on stuff that already exists, cause that would get really boring, really quickly. 5. First of all, an arc is not twenty minutes long. An episode is twenty minutes long. An arc consists of multiple episodes, such as the Sasuke Retrieval arc. Second, one should probably not be watching a show if they don't understand what is going on. That's just asinine. 6. Lastly, the aff claimed that the only reason one should watch the show is because you're connected to the characters. Not only is this a great reason to watch the show, I provided numerous reasons to watch the show which my opponent didn't cover, and I also just defeated all of the Aff's supposed reasons not to watch the show. I chose not to discuss filler, because filler is exactly that. It's something created by the makers of the show to waste time while the show catches up with the manga. It has nothing to do with the story, and therefore has no weight in this debate. I'm now ready for any rebuttals and defenses the Aff would like to make."	CON	842
842	S5d50491e-Ae0000828	The US Federal Goveronment should abolish 99%of its functions	My opponent starts by claiming that the constitution states the government should only have 15 responsibilities (it’s actually more than 15, but my opponent cut some out). However his argument assumes the government is justified by the constitution. Something for which he has provided no evidence. Second, he assumes the constitution shouldn’t be changed when needed. Which we know has happened many times throughout history [1] and should be the case because as Jefferson said “The dead should not rule the living.” [2] Furthermore, his argument contradicts his original proposition. Clause 6 and 7 for instance don’t fall under Pro’s 3 responsibilities of government. The full text of section 8 also states the government should “....have Power To lay and collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises, to pay the Debts and provide for the common Defence and general Welfare of the United States; but all Duties, Imposts and Excises shall be uniform throughout the United States;” [3]. Again, where does this fit in the original propositions? His next argument has to do with the national debt. However this argument assumes that the national debt is something that needs to be paid off right away. The national debt and personal debt are two very different things. Eliminating the debt can have serious adverse effects in international economics [4]. Professor Buchanan states “...there is no convincing theory or evidence demonstrating that a government can enhance its citizens’ economic prosperity by refusing to borrow money. By contrast, because the federal government can undertake high-return investments (such as spending on education and infrastructure), the Golden Rule of government budgeting suggests that the federal government should run annual deficits to finance such long-term investments, while collecting sufficient tax revenues to pay for the rest of the government’s operatIons each year. “ [5] Counterplan I argue that we shouldn't abolish 99% of the government's functions, but we should abolish 100% of its functions. This is much better than abolishing all but 1% of its functions. Pro never actually argues what justifies the remaining 1% at all. He simply assumes the legitimacy of the state. Since the state is making the claim of authority, then it is Pro’s job to justify its existence. We ought to strive towards maximum freedom for all, as an unfree society inherently seems wrong and it seems arbitrary to claim that some freedoms are just and some aren’t. Since the government is structured in a hierarchical fashion, this entails it possesses authoritarian characteristics. However, if the government was abolished and a horizontal structure was instilled, this would eliminate any possibility of coercion by a state. I also don’t see what’s to stop the government from establishing more power. Assuming the government had and only had the responsibilities listed at the founding of the US, then it’s evident that it obtained more power. So why wouldn’t it happen again? Lastly, we ought to abolish the state as it lacks moral authority. Assuming the state had moral authority, then it follows that its laws have moral import. That is to say, when the state makes a law, it is moral to follow it because it is law. However, this is clearly false. If a law claims we ought to murder children, it is morally abhorrent to follow it. It also doesn’t seem immoral to break certain laws. For example, nobody thinks I’m breaking some moral code if I have a coin in my ear in Hawaii, even though it’s against the law [6]. We follow something because our sense of morality tells us this, not because of a dictation from a government official. This means the law has no moral import and neither does the government have moral authority. If we have a government in place, then it is in violation of morality. Pro’s arguments fail to show why we should abolish all but 1% of the government. Even assuming the state is justified, his arguments fail. However, what is best is if 100% of government functions be abolished. Sources [1] http://www.scholastic.com... [2] http://www.goodreads.com... [3] http://www.archives.gov... [4] https://www.thestreet.com... [5] http://scholarship.law.gwu.edu... [6] http://www.dumblaws.com...	CON	843
843	S442da727-Acf1e238c	Government was required to drive through major changes such as drives for equality within society, universal education, and preservation of the environment. Mostly in the teeth of big business	There is the world of difference between establishing basic rights and interfering in matters that are best agreed at a community or state level. That is the reason why the states collectively agree to constitutional amendments that can be considered to affect all citizens. However, different communities regulate themselves in different ways depending on both practical needs and the principles they consider to be important. Having the opinions of city-dwellers, who have never got closer to rural life than a nineteenth landscape in a gallery instruct farming communities that they cannot work the land to save a rare frog is absurd. Trying to establish policies such as a minimum wage or the details of environmental protection at a federal level simply makes no sense, as the implications of these things vary wildly between different areas of the country. Equally local attitudes towards issues such as religion, marriage, sexuality, pornography and other issues of personal conscience differ between communities and the federal government has no more business banning prayer in Tennessee than it would have mandating it in New York. These are matters for the states and sometimes for individual communities. The nation was founded on the principle that individual states should agree, where possible, on matters of great import but are otherwise free to go their separate ways. In addition to which, pretending that the hands of politicians and bureaucrats are free of blood in any of these matters is simply untrue – more than untrue, it is absurd. If the markets are driven by profit- a gross generalisation - then politics is driven by the hunger for power and the campaign funds that deliver it. Business at least has the good grace to earn, and risk, its own money whereas government feels free to use other peoples for whatever is likely to buy the most votes. Likewise business makes its money by providing products and services that people need or want. Government, by contrast, uses other people’s money to enforce decisions regardless of whether they are wanted or needed by anyone. Ultimately it is the initiative and industry of working Americans that has provided the funds for the great wars against oppression as well as the ingenuity to solve environmental and other technical solutions to the problems faced by humankind. Pharmaceutical companies produce medicines – not the DHHS; engineering companies produce clean energy solutions – not the EPA; farmers put food on families’ tables – not the Department of Agriculture.	CON	844
844	S4338d37-A7e09f3d6	Christianity and its Validity	How can all religions be the same? If they where all created for the same purpose why are there all different ones? The that all religions are the same makes absolutely no sense, because not all religions believe even sort of the same things. For example... Christians believe that God is the only true God, and that Jesus, His son, is the only way to get to heaven, which is a place of eternal happiness. Buddhists, there is no god, and no heaven. Hindus, karma. Enough said. How can these be the same? Your first reason, how could they be created for a simple code for the commoners to live by when the different religions have different laws? How can you prove that heaven and hell do not exist? You can't. No one in the remotely recent past had come back from the dead so we can ask! Why would a king or ruler of some sort want to create a religion, it isn't as if word wouldn't get out and then the religion would evaporate. This has not happened. Why do you think people long for something to believe in? Honestly, why? It's because God put that longing in everyone so that they would look for Him, and look for Him, and look for Him, until they find him. Why do you think religion I'd so attractive? Can you see wind? No. Do you know it's there? Yes, you can feel it, you can see the effects of it, and you can here it as it flows through the trees. God is like that. Can you see Him himself? No, but you know He's there. You can feel His presence, you can SEE what He has created and know He's there, you can see the effect He has on the entire world. Because you know, without Him, we wouldn't be here. Is that not intriguing to think about? Imagine your brain not being here. Imagine not having a soul. See you can't imagine yourself out of things, your brain can't wrap itself around that. And do you know why? Because we won't have to. We will always be here, whether in heaven or hell, our even on this corrupt earth, we will always exist. What do you mean? What values you can see? Explain. I promise I am going to push for details in this debate, I didn't in the one with kasmic, and I should have. You are going to have to give me details down to the letter. And you shouldn't. You should not forsake your 'knowledge' and education, IF it's right. If it where me I would forsake any schooling I had had that does not go with God's word. Thank you for inviting me to participate in this debate.	PRO	845
845	S13ed301-Afc846d3	Resolved: Debate.org should start its own Space Program	RIP Doggybag aka Douchebag <3 Debate is now open to the public, except for Blade-of-truth, who spammed the comments section and will automatically lose the debate if he accepts. 1) We have the money to fund such a program Space programs aint cheap, I know. The one im running in Kerbal Space Program and I cant even crash into an asteroid and kill 3 kerbals without blowing 200k on the mission. But here at DDO, we can all pool together our resources and be able to fund a very successful space program: http://www.debate.org... If you scroll down to the second mini-graph on the left hand side, you will see a chart illustrating how over 14% of people on this site has an income of over $150,000 a year. Assuming these people are being truthful about their income (because seriously, who would go on the internet just to tell lies?) then that would mean that with a user base of over 280,000 people.... 280,000 x 0.14 = 39,200 users whose income is > $150,000 a year 39,200 x 150,000 = $5,880,000,000 Thats a yearly budget of 6 BILLION dollars! If we tap into people making just UNDER $150,000 a year, we could easily match the budget that NASA themselves receive every year! https://en.wikipedia.org... DDO therefore clearly has the financial means to fund a space program. 2) Technological gains from the space program will be worth it Imagine using the space program to be able to discover new technologies and launch satellites.... We could build a whole new internet just for DDO so that it never lags or gets weighed down by all of the spamming that Lee and Joey do in he forums!.... We could lay the footwork for DDO's own spy satellite program so that we could snipe spambots from space using giant space lasers! Or snipe trolls in the poll section using giant space lasers!Plus, imagine what DDO could do with a DEATH STAR! Need I say more? I probably should, but I shant. 3) Colonization of other sites/planets. Having a functioning space program is critical to being able to settle new worlds and new places far away from home. Imagine being able to start an entirely new site, where only the best and brightest debaters from DDO travel to to start a new debate site? Imagine Edeb8 except it actually was cool and full of smart people and not just people who were washed out of DDO who have me on their sh** list. Our home planet of DDO is becoming overpopulated, polluted, overcrowded, and insert nefarious sounding 4th adjective here. A functioning space program will allow DDOers to be able to take those first bold steps where no person on d	PRO	846
846	S4d31a949-A1895b106	Raising the minimum wage would help get America out of its recession.	"My opponent's fundamental flaw in logic is that he assumes that companies do not pay people more because they do not want to. This is not the case. Raising the minimum wage would immediately increase unemployment (it costs more to hire people), especially in poor families. My opponent overlooks this, and this undoes some of his case. The rest lies in the lack of economic knowledge that my opponent has, and there are a variety of logical flaws in his arguments. As to my opponent's rebuttal: ______________________________ A) My opponent contends that the minimum wage has not kept up with inflation. However, to raise it causes price inflation. So, with my opponent's logic, we could increase the minimum wage over and over again, causing inflation until it gets to the point where the dollar is useless, as it was in pre-Hitler Germany. The link between raising the minimum wage and inflation is a flaw in my opponent's second subpoint. B) My opponent contends that a company will lose business by raising prices. This is not the case, because the entire industry is forced to raise their prices. With an increased employment expense, a business will need a means to generate more revenue to stay afloat, and the easiest way to do that is to raise prices. All companies in the industry will do this. This is called Price Inflation (not to be confused with Monetary Inflation). Further, a company will meet this new expense by cutting expenditures, most likely now-more-expensive employees. However, if this is not an option, they will simply raise prices. Inflation and unemployment are not good for a recession, as my other points have contended. 1. While some people will make more money, the rest will lose their jobs. With less employed people, the economy suffers, as there is less people that can spend. So, there is no way that this will make employees richer, unless the companies raise prices, which ultimately undoes their riches with inflation. 2. Raising the minimum wage would not allow for families to have more economic security, because either they lose their jobs or the cost of everything increases. So, this point is also null. 3. ""Raising the minimum wage would decrease the amount of days a worker is absent and increase overall productivity."" My opponent has not sourced this. This statement is not based in fact and is a meager assumption. 4. Raising the minimum wage would only 'help' the workers earning near the minimum wage, and it isn't really helping them because (again) their costs of living go up and/or they lose their job. 5. ""If these families cannot make their bank payments because they don't have enough money because of the minimum wage, then the banks will fail"" Actually, banks only fail after their client's bankruptcy if the loan was sub-prime. And again, my opponent's point is null because the value of what they make is ultimately the same as it was before (unless they lose their job) with the exception that after the inflation resulting from an increased minimum wage will cause the banks to lose money. 6. I would like to use an analogy. I see a tree. I spit on the ground. A lumberjack comes and chopes the tree down. Therefore, my spitting caused the tree to fall. There is no link between minimum wage and male-female income gaps. The cause for the increases in income gaps is commonly linked to other factors, such as births and a rise in pregnancy. (Source: Economic Facts and Fallacies [Male-Female Facts and Fallacies Chapter]) 7. My opponent pulls an argument from Bill Clinton's talking points. What is not considered in these statistics is the the price inflation that would result in this extra money being worth less, and the costs of living increasing (higher rent and more expensive groceries). 8. My opponent has the same logical fallacy as in 6. He uses the same list of Bill Clinton's talking points as in most of the rest of his arguments. Bill Clinton does not elaborate as to which years his 'research' used and included and what it was about, when it was done. There is not way to verify this information. Further, the statistics that Bill Clinton used were not from recession situations. This is a common political technique called 'drive-by'. Therefore, one cannot trust these statistics and it is likely that the reasons for the decreased unemployment were not an increased minimum wage, as Clinton insisted. 9. ""we cannot build up and advance technologically."" Creating inflation that will set up misery for the banking system and unemployment for the economy will not spur new technologies. During the Great Depression, very few 'new' technologies were developed. However, the 1950s were a time of great innovation. http://www.mckinseyquarterly.com... ""Many companies hesitated to innovate during the 1930s. Consider, for example, patent applications as a proxy for resources devoted to innovation. The growth rate of US patent applications by companies with R&D laboratories was considerably lower during the 1930s than in the preceding decade."" http://www.ddmcd.com... (Uses 1950s as an example as a time with amazing and impressive innovation.) So, my opponent's point is flat out false and disproven by the very history he feels is on his side. __________________________________________________________ ""that there has NEVER been jobs lost when the minimum wage increases. (4)"" My opponent again sources Bill Clinton's talking points. I have already discussed the irrelevance of this source. ""In the past, raising the minimum wage decreases inflation, reduces the amount of people in poverty, and stimulates the economy. (6)"" Another lie; raising the minimum wage leads to price inflation and does not 'decrease' inflation at all; it causes an increase in unemployment (leading to more people in poverty); and harms the economy. Conclusion: ***************************************** I thank my opponent for this economic debate. My opponent's argument is based in economic and logical fallacy. Raising the minimum wage leads to A)unemployent and price inflation , which B) leads to other problems. B has been conceded by PRO. Raising the minimum wage will worsen the current recession. Therefore, it will not 'help get America out of its recession'."	CON	847
847	S4d31a949-A884afa	Raising the minimum wage would help get America out of its recession.	"I would like to start by saying that my logic isn't flawed, on the contrary, yours is. There is a certain analytical threshold - and I'm afraid that you are way over it. I am first going to start by responding to their last speech. ____________________ My opponent began by saying that raising the minimum wage would immediately increase unemployment. This has been *historically proven* to not happen. While my opponent insists otherwise, he cannot compete with studies that have taken place. My opponent might know a lot about the economy - but he isn't qualified enough to compete with studies and authors who spend their life studying things like this. Now, I will proceed to respond to my opponent's arguments in the same manner that he responded to mine in. A) My opponent has not responded to my main argument. My opponent contends that raising the minimum wage will cause inflation. Yet, he ignored my point. The current inflation is so high right now that the minimum wage hasn't kept up with it. HISTORICALLY, the minimum wage is normally proportionate to inflation. But not anymore. Raising the minimum wage would NOT cause inflation because it would simply be catching up to where it will be. But my next argument, that was conceded, is what will win me this debate. B) My opponent contends that the entire industry will raise their prices. This argument has crossed the line. It's absolutely absurd. Say the local grocery store raises their prices. My opponent contends that then, Kroger, will raise their prices too. This flawed economical assumption is another reason that I will win the debate. Luckily, these small businesses realize this. So they will find other ways to lower the cost, as my opponent pointed out, by cutting expenditures. 1) Again, there is a threshold for analytical arguments. Historically, twelve million jobs have been created by raising the minimum wage. Don't listen to my opponent's arguments that are merely 'assumptions', instead, look at what has happened in the past. I will now quote my first source. ""Numerous economic studies, including those by David Card and Alan Krueger of Princeton University, have shown that increasing the minimum wage has no negative effect on employment."" (1) I would like to ask you, the voter, to believe an economist at Princeton over my opponent. 2) My opponent contends that people will loose their jobs, so people will not have economic security. Again, please trust Princeton economists over my opponent. This point is null, too, because studies, again, by Princeton economists, have shown that there has been no job loss. 3) I apologize for forgetting to source this. This is from my second source down at the bottom. Do not ignore this argument - my opponent had plenty of room to both respond to this and tell you that I forgot to source it. 4) For this point, please refer back to my previous arguments on how there will be no inflation. 5) My opponent contends here that what they make is the same as they had made before (unless they loose their job, which, again, again, Princeton economists have proven to be false). 6) This argument isn't really relevant, I was just putting it out there. Even though my opponent thinks he can win this argument by making analytical arguments, that is not the case. Refer back to my third source at the bottom. ""Research has shown that the decline in the real value of the minimum wage from 1979 to 1988 was responsible for approximately 24 percent of the increase in wage inequality experienced by men and about 32 percent of the increase in wage inequality for women."" My opponent also says that this is due to other factors. That is irrelevant. It still causes the gap to widen, even if it is not the only thing. 7) Since I have won before with my previous arguments that there will be no more inflation than there is in the status quo, I win this argument too. This argument cannot be looked over. My opponent contends that that extra amount isn't worth much because of the increased cost of living. If they somehow win that there will be inflation, it is NOT POSSIBLE for it to rise so high so that 2,000-3,000 dollars is worth nothing. This extra money for these workers is what we need for the economy right now - they can then buy items from companies, who then make money and can then hire more workers. It's a chain reaction. 8) This is not Bill Clinton speaking. This is a report done by his economists, who are more qualified than my opponent and his analytical arguments. It is irrelevant whether this is statistics from a recession - 2,000 dollars is 2,000 dollars. Even if they win that there will be inflation, I will win that this 2,000 dollars for tens of millions of people will stimulate the economy and help us get out of the recession. The last part of my opponent's argument confuses me. My opponent says that ""it is likely that the reasons for the decreased unemployment were not an increased minimum wage, as Clinton insisted."" I do not see anywhere in this article where it says that. He, and his economic experts, are arguing against you. Not for you. 9) Since I, again, win that there will be no inflation, I will turn this argument and argue that since the minimum wage will be increased, and millions of jobs will be created, there will be MORE technology created so that we can advance. """"Me: that there has NEVER been jobs lost when the minimum wage increases. (4)"" Opponent : My opponent again sources Bill Clinton's talking points. I have already discussed the irrelevance of this source"" My opponent forgets that this is from Princeton economists. His arguments are all irrelevant because Princeton economists know more than him. My opponent contends that ""raising the minimum wage leads to price inflation and does not 'decrease' inflation at all; it causes an increase in unemployment (leading to more people in poverty); and harms the economy."" Since I have already won that this will not lead to inflation, and I have won that it creates millions of jobs, I win that it helps the economy, which is what wins me this debate round. Now, I am going to go over my arguments, and then reach my conclusion. The main argument I am going to go over again is the inflation argument. It seems like there has been some confusion about this with my opponent. --- How does inflation occur? I will list the relevant reasons. --- 1) A type of inflation known as stagflation occurs when an economy faces high unemployment rate and economic stagnation. (4) 2) There is a possibility of inflation when the business houses and industries increase the price of their goods and services in order to increase their profit margins. This type of inflation is known as pricing power inflation or administered price inflation. In this type of inflation, the business houses have the power of pricing their respective goods and services. (4) I have proven number one to be untrue. Raising the minimum wage creates millions of jobs. I have also proven number two untrue. Businesses will not raise their prices because they realize they can't, and also workers will work harder so that the businesses will make more money. This was conceded by my opponent. Also, examine my argument that inflation is high right now, and if the minimum wage catches up, it will not increase inflation. Conclusion My opponent believes that he is more qualified than my authors, Princeton economists, and economic advisers to the President. Do not let him win any of his analytical, historically untrue, arguments. Raising the minimum wage leads to A) Tens of millions of jobs B) More money for those people to spend elsewhere, stimulating the economy Thank you for this wonderful debate."	PRO	848
848	S5efbb5ee-Adfee6db	Smoking should be illegal, its killing too many people!	"First of all I feel that relating the risks of obesity to the risks of smoking is irrelevant to our debate. First of all smoking regularly can cause serious and permanent damage to a person""s health; even is a person would to quit smoking then, if they had been smoking long enough, they would still experience some minor effects of when they passed smoked. Some even still get cravings after years and years of not smoking. Whereas obesity can be tackled by losing weight, this will actually improve the health of the person and would reduce further the chance of the person having any serious health issues. Secondly smoking is an addictive habit, and although you could argue that over eating is an addictive habit in some cases it is not nearly as common and is a cytological addiction; which is a lot easier to overcome and when the habit is finally broken the chance of relapse is reduced. This is because in my opinion there are so many more benefits to losing weight then there is quitting smoking. Whereas cigarettes are addictive because of the chemical compounds of the cigarettes, this makes the habit a lot harder to break and makes the reasons for smoking very, very different form the reasons of overeating. Furthermore I feel that you should not generalise that all people who smoke will want to go against the law and ""rebel"" in order to get cigarettes. In2009 21% of adults smoked according to the "" health and social care information centre"" I feel that I am right in thinking that these people are mostly law abiding people and would prefer to quit smoking than disobey the law. I understand your argument about school children as in 2010 around a quarter of secondary school children say that they have tried smoking at least once but only 5% say they regular smokers. Surly even those 5% would be put off further by smoking being illegal. (http://www.hscic.gov.uk...) Coffee tea agreed do contain caffeine which is an addictive substance but here are the dangers of coffee (information taken from http://www.good-health.co.uk...) ""High consumption over a long period of time can increase your blood pressure. ""People with caffeine sensitivity and high blood pressure should avoid caffeinated drinks. ""If you are pregnant you should decrease your caffeine consumption. ""If you drink too much caffeine then it can make you shaky and give you a headache. ""If you have too much caffeine at the end of the day then you may have trouble sleeping. I agree that coffee does have some side effect but not nearly as life changing and dangerous as cigarettes, I have my cup of coffee every morning and always feel fine. If we move away from the effects smoking has on just the people smoking and the people around the smoker and focus on the slightly wider picture you might find that the amount of people smoking is having a greater effect on the entire planet than you might think. People smoke on average 6,000,000 cigarettes a day, which is a lot of paper and a lot of trees being cut down for paper that can never be recycled. Cigarette buds litter the streets and it takes around 5 years for one cigarette bud to break down. These two facts alone will give you an idea about just how damaging cigarettes are to the environment without even calculating how many toxic gases are given off when people smoke. It is estimated that each cigarette will take around 5-8 minutes off your life, in my opinion that alone is worth thinking about. (http://www.rbhs.co.uk...)"	PRO	849
849	S88fd29eb-Afac1e6cf	Debate.org should have its own currency to help Juggle make money	"What do you have against any idiots that come on this site? 2. If it is a small, easily missed button, there wouldn't be much revenue. 3. I, for one, would rather help them, not just give them a bench. Earning Farming Bench's ""First off, we need more people to vote on debates, most of us cant even have a debate without having to put it on life support in the ""vote on this"" thread in the forums. "" So you would rather have people randomly voting to get free Bench's, than posting it and having people actually decide? ""Second, It takes a lot of voting to get Bench's to buy anything, and the stuff you can buy isnt worth that much, so spamming wont bring down the site. "" One vote = 100 Bench's. So you only have to vote on 50 debates to get a free vote. ""There are 9,572 debates that match your search criteria"" So that is 957,200 bench's that can be claimed. Another thing is that what if you lose a debate that you should have won because the other person has bench's? ""Not all posts can be the same so you have to make something different each time. Also the amount of Bench's you get per post is miniscule so it would be hard to get anything by spamming the forums. "" Ok, so i can hit q w e r t y u i o p [ ] \ a s d f g h j k l ; ' z x c v b n m , . /, then qw qe qr qt qy qu qi qo qp and so on. That alone is over 40 bench's. That is four times the amount given for starting a new debate, in under a minute. There would be no incentive to make new debates, other than, you know, debating. ""3 & 4. Spam debates and useless arguments."" Well, if you want to keep the mod team busy, then your point stands. ""6. Same as 2.""-+""You get 1 Bench for updating your profile information, you need 1000 to buy ANYTHING."" 1 11 111 1111 11111 111111 111111 1111111 1111111 11111111 111111111 111111111 11111111 111111111 11111111111 So on. Also, ""In one study of average computer users, the average rate for transcription was 33 words per minute, and 19 words per minute for composition."" [1] One Wpm= 5 keystrokes. So 33 x 5 = 165 keystrokes in a minute. That is for an average user. So in under ten minutes, if i was desperate, i can get 1000 benches. Sorry about 5. Idk if i should address it or not, but what the hell. 5. I can accept open debates then just forefeit. (I don't know if it was dropped or not, if it was, don't read this lol) 1) Legalized Prostitution "" Only porn in high demand would be available"" This means that there would be a monopoly on the porn bench's. Only the hot people will get paid, and they can then use the bench's to win debates. ""All the llamas left the site due to trolling by Askbob, that wont be an issue"" They said the same thing about the Sith twice, once in Kotor, and again in Episode 3. What did they do both times? PURGE THE JEDI ORDER. [2]&[3] 2) Extra Character Space ""If your debating a noob and you need 9,000 characters, you need to fix your arguments. Also, if you want to waste those hard earned points on a noob debate rather than a legit one then thats your choice...."" I said a newbie to the SITE. What if the person has a quad PHD in debatorology? You win because: A. You have more space and B. You bought votes. 3) Buying 1 point votes for your own debates ""So you can vote for yourself?"" ""If you have a sh*t load of Bench's then yeah"" So the hot girls would always win. "" This would be highly unbalancing in terms of how many wins people that accept a lot of debates get "" ""If people vote on them though then this wont be an issue since 1 point barely changes anything in debates. It would be used on debates that havent gotten any votes. "" So 5000 for a point, and i showed you can get infinite bench's, sooo..... yeah. 4) Changing your name ""People cant just ""roll with it"", you should be able to change your name to what you want it to be and with this program people can do that without confusing the hell out of people too much. "" Why don't they just tell people? 5) Buying Bench's with actual money ""WHAT THE HELL. Who would ever think that buying power for money is a good thing?"" ""Youre not buying power your buying Bench's that can only be used on a few things that by themselves could not automatically win somebody a debate. "" Bench's = Porn and free votes. ""What if im a hobo who lives as one with the pangolins in Hoboland, and can only afford to keep my internet access running?"" ""Unlikely, you should probably get a job though ya hippie."" But im stuck in HOBOLAND. Everyone is homeless, so noone has jobs to give. \ "" Look, someone just spent a Sextillion dollars to get votes. It would snowball out of effect."" ""Its one point per debate, you need at least 4 to change any debate, and buying 4 points in votes costs 20,000 Bench's, and you can only make 100 at a time. And if someone really wants to spend that kind of money just to win a debate, then they are only getting Juggle more and more interested in the site which helps all of us. "" Still, it could happen and the one person would have 99% of the debates in the bag. Also, if Juggle saw this, there is no way in hell they would stop it. ""Con's lame a** idea"" Thank you kind sir. ""it is simply a way of tracking how much a user is contributing"" ""We already have something that does that for us, http://www.debate.org...; But this puts some incentive out there. ""At the end of the month, the user with the most points is allowed to ask for one person to be, as you called it, a ""prostitute"""" ""You give me sh*t about legalizing prostitution and then do the same thing when you make a program??? D*ck move dude, d*ck move My idea is better because it helps people become better debaters and helps Juggle take more interest in the site. "" About prostitution: My system doesn't give people the oppertunity to unbalance a debate by posting nudes. "" it helps people become better debaters "" By buying an advantage? [1] WIKIPEDIAISASOURCE http://en.wikipedia.org... [2]http://starwars.wikia.com... [3]http://starwars.wikia.com..."	CON	850
850	S8ed3664d-Aea7614fe	The NSA, in its current form, is justified	"NSA is defined as the National Security Agency of the United States Justified is defined as shown to be right or reasonable. The National Security Agency is headed by Admiral Michael Rogers, and is tasked with global monitoring, collection, and processing of information and data for foreign intelligence and counterintelligence purposes. It has recently become very controversial, as information has been leaked showing that the NSA has been systematically spying on and violating the privacy of America""s own citizens. There are points to be made on both sides of the NSA issue. I personally stand against the NSA, for several reasons. Let""s start first with the constitutionality of the organization. It doesn""t even matter how much it has stopped terrorist attacks or violated the privacy of American citizens if it""s unconstitutional to begin with. The right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated, and no Warrants shall issue, but upon probable cause, supported by Oath or affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be searched, and the persons or things to be seized. "" Fourth Amendment People have a right to privacy that shall not be violated. End of story. Right? No, not really. Some people still try to justify the NSA by looking at the security it brings us. Let""s take a look at that. In June 2013, General Keith Alexander, then Director of the National Security Agency, claimed to Congress that his organization had thwarted about 50 potential terror attacks. (Source: ABC NEWS) If this figure is true, then the National Security Agency has lived up to its name by actually preserving our national security, and is arguably justified in its extensive surveillance programs. To begin with, however, we ought to hold Alexander""s statement in some doubt for two reasons "" conflict of interest, and lack of evidence. Why wouldn""t General Alexander make claims that will result in more funding for his own agency? Also, it""s suspicious that he refused to elaborate on how or what or who was caught in those ""54 terror attacks"" that were supposedly stopped by the NSA. We shouldn""t simply take his statements at face value simply because he""s in the military or has four stars on each shoulder. Let""s actually take a look at the factuality of the 54 number. ""Would you agree that the 54 cases that keep getting cited by the administration were not all plots, and of the 54, only 13 had some nexus to the U.S.?"" Leahy said at the hearing. ""Would you agree with that, yes or no?"" ""Yes,"" Alexander replied, without elaborating. "" ProPublica Okay. So to begin with, the 54 terrorism cases that were thwarted is already reduced to 13 that have anything at all to do with the USA. That number is further reduced when we learn that not all of the 13 were actual plots for an actual terrorist attack. Then, the number is further reduced when we learn that the NSA is not even responsible for thwarting all of the remainder of the 13 actual terrorist plots. In the end, when the claims and reality are fully analyzed (full analysis here), the NSA had a prominent role in detecting or foiling all of about one or two actual terrorist plots to carry out an attack on American soil or directed at American citizens, and it hasn""t been shown that those attacks couldn""t have been foiled by other agencies without the use of the NSA""s extensive dragnet collection of the data of American citizens. At the end of the day, not only is the NSA""s extensive violation of privacy unconstitutional, the claimed actual benefits to our security resulting from those violations just don""t add up to actual security at all. If that isn""t enough, let""s now look at the harms done to our society because of the NSA and similar surveillance programs. The Washington Post reported on August 15, 2013, on a leaked top-secret internal audit from the NSA that stated that in 2012 alone, 2,776 violations of privacy took place. (Source: CNN and The Washington Post) ""There is no reliable way to calculate from the number of recorded compliance issues how many Americans have had their communications improperly collected, stored or distributed by the NSA."" "" The Washington Post Those 2,776 violations of in-house rules can""t even be independently verified, simply by nature of the complete secrecy surrounding the NSA. So we can""t know if there have actually been perhaps even thousands more violations of regulations. The Obama administration and top officials in the NSA have publicly claimed that only 12 violations have taken place in the last decade. (Source: Bloomberg Business) Obviously, 2,776 a year and 12 a decade are two numbers that cannot coexist in the real world. So let""s take a look at the facts. ""A secret court that oversees the NSA said in a declassified legal opinion from October 2011 the agency substantially misrepresented the scope of surveillance operations three times in less than three years."" "" Bloomberg Business ""Since the first secret documents on NSA spying were revealed in June, senior officials have been clamouring to win back the trust of the public. But in the process, they have repeatedly made factually inaccurate and disingenuous statements""whether due to incompetence or complicity""which will only further erode confidence in the current system and fuel desire for comprehensive reform."" "" Slate The National Security Agency, as well as the current administration, has a history of lying to the American people. Even the secret court that oversees the NSA doesn""t trust the claims that NSA officials present to it any more. NSA officials and the Obama administration are simply no longer credible, at least when they make claims about the NSA. It simply does not make sense to trust the ""12 abuses"" claim unless we have actual evidence to back it up. It makes more sense to trust the 2,776 number, as it comes directly from an internal audit from the NSA, rather than from officials who have their own careers and reputations at stake if they tell the truth. Bear in mind that the 2,776 number only counts violations of internal regulations. First off, there may be thousands more violations that haven""t been discovered or documented. Secondly, some may consider actually even storing or analyzing their own personal data as an unreasonable invasion of their privacy. (Source: RT) Third, every single one of the 2,776 violations of regulations can encompass multiple (in one case even 3,000) violations of privacy rights. Fourth, the 2,776 number doesn""t actually count every single instance where rules were broken while accessing data collected by the NSA. (Source: The New American) But the NSA review document did not review every violation of U.S. citizens"" privacy. It only reviewed violations based from the NSA""s Ft. Meade headquarters. The NSA also has large database systems and staff in half a dozen other locations, including a huge new data center in Utah. The NSA document did not analyze abuse by non-NSA personnel either. Other agencies "" as well as private contractors such as Edward Snowden "" also have had access to NSA data center information. So the actual abuse could be much wider than the 2,776 incidents last year. "" The New American So the actual number of violations of actual privacy rights is substantially higher than 2,776. The actual number will vary on how you analyze the situation and because we don""t have definitive evidence or empirical facts. We won""t dive too deeply into even more disgusting and reprehensible accounts of how the NSA and its officials have abused its power and blatantly violated the privacy of American citizens. (Sources: Wall Street Journal and Just Security) """"someday, the abuses will begin, in all likelihood long before we know about them."" "" Slate Finally, even if there aren""t that many privacy violations in the here and now, the NSA opens the door to privacy violations in the future "" it sets a very disturbing precedent of allowing the federal government to violate your privacy at will. As stated above, this is obviously unconstitutional. A simple cost benefit analysis indicates that the one or two terrorist attacks that have been stopped by the NSA (which probably could have been stopped without the NSA) aren""t worth the massive violations of privacy that are happening on a regular basis. In sum, the NSA is violating the Constitutional right to privacy on a regular basis, it also doesn""t actually provide with real security against anything, and on top of that, thousands (and perhaps tens or hundreds of thousands) of privacy violations ought to make us think twice about maintaining the NSA in its current form. (For links to sources see http://www.jeremywang.tk...)"	CON	851
851	Sd0cb1704-Adb10418	The Hokey Pokey is What its All About	"1) The Law of Series ""If coincidence does not exist in the sense that most people perceive it to be, then the lyrics to the song ""Hokey Pokey"" must not be a coincidence, and must in fact be metaphysically meaningful in some way...."" Coincidence as we all know is a very debated topic in the scientific community, with many scientists chalking up miraculous occurrences to events that took place simply by chance, and others suggesting that its a much deeper science than that. One scientist in this article i have chosen to quote, who goes by the last name of Beitman, suggests that ""dismissing coincidence as a matter of chance assumes that coincidences are inherently meaningless or insignificant. Without supporting evidence, this assumption is hardly scientific....” He then recognized the difficulty in scientifically proving coincidences are anything more than chance.... http://www.theepochtimes.com... If it truly is coincidence that the lyrics to the sign came out the way they did, or even if there is a deeper meaning behind the organization of those words, is in the end irrelevent though, because the plain meaning of the words when put into proper context includes the phrase 'and you turn yourself around' right in between 'do the Hokey Pokey' and 'That's what its all about'. If coincidence is the case, then its a coincidence that doing the Hokey Pokey is included in the lyric in the first place, whereas if its not coincidence and that there is indeed a deeper meaning and science to the song as Beitman would argue that there is, then 'turning yourself around' is placed in the lyric for a legitimate reason, which means that 'Doing the Hokey Pokey' can only be what PART of it's all about, if anything at all. 2) Collective consciousness ""Considering the lyrics of the hokey pokey must then be linked with such a collective consciousness must mean that human beings somehow unconsciously know why the hokey pokey is the meaning of what its all about."" It could be equally valid to conclude that the collective consciousness of all people merely allows all people to unconsciously know THE LYRICS to the Hokey Pokey, not necessarily the meaning behind the words themselves or the true meaning of the song.... In 2008 a study im pretending that is real was carried out where 100 men at the mall were shown pictures of other men looking bored at the mall because their girlfriends dragged them to the mall to shop, leaving the men bored out of their minds.... All 100 men who were shown the pictures felt empathy for the men in the pictures because they consciously or unconsciously knew the pain and suffering those men in the pictures were facing, being able to relate to them on a personal level.... When asked to evaluate what the men in the pictures were THINKING about though, rather then just note the experience they were going through, the 100 male responders gave a variety of answers/guesses, ranging from 'The man is sad because he is missing the football game on TV right now' to 'The man is sad because he thinks he is dating the wrong twin', with some answers even being 'The man is sad because his in-laws will be in town soon and precious alone time is being wasted by being at the mall'.... This study indicates that while collective consciousness is a reasonable but debated concept, the amount of information that people could gather from collective consciousness is very basic, meaning it is implausible to argue that people simply KNOW that the Hokey Pokey is what its all about based on this science. It can only be argued that people know the LYRICS to the Hokey Pokey, but nothing more. Furthermore If there was a collective conscious that the ""Hokey Pokey"" was what it is all about, then why is it that different cultures have different translations of what exactly it is that its all about. The UK knows the song as 'The Hokey Cokey' In New Zealand its known as 'The Hokey Tokey"" In the Phillippines its known as 'The Boogie Boogie' In Denmark its sung as 'The Boogie Woogie' https://en.wikipedia.org... The collective consciousness knowing that the Hokey pokey is what its all about is therefore invalidated by the fact that cultures cannot even agree on what it is that it is all about! 3) Greko-Philosophical standpoint vs Einsteinian-Relativity standpoint on 'The Hokey Pokey' In Ancient Greece, the Philosopher Aristotle came to the Metaphysical conclusion that ""The whole is MORE than the sum of its parts' in that outside of a case in mathematics, machines or concepts that serve a purpose or service to humanity are on a whole worth more to society than all of the things that actually puts together the machine or concept in the first place. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov... Albert Einstein though later offered a contention that the Sum was NOT greater than all of its parts, and that from a physics and relativity standpoints, the sum is in fact LESS than all of its parts due to concepts of decay and binding energy... http://www.einstein-online.info... The debate about whether the Hokey Pokey is or isnt what its all about derives to a standoff between both sides depending on whether they accept the Greko-classical argument or the Einstein-modern argument on the matter. If we accept the latter, than the Hokey Pokey is NOT what its all about, and that infact, it is even less than putting ones body parts in, putting ones body parts out, and shaking ones body parts all about. Accepting the Greko-classical argument favors that the Hokey Pokey is what its all about, but conflicts with existing and testable evidence indicating otherwise 4) Meaning ""The only way to refute the hokey pokey is to say that we can know precisely what this dance means, but alas, we may never know what it means"" The dance means exactly what it is perceived to mean based on the plain reading of the lyrics though, which read off like cooking instructions.... Putting one's left hand 'in', for example, implies sticking a persons hand inside or towards a pre-determined and pre-agreed upon zone or location by the people who are participating in the song.... Then to put one's left hand 'out' is an instruction to then remove the persons hand from inside or towards the pre-agreed upon location, and instead point it at an inverse, opposite direction or location away from the pre-determined zone, often located at the center of the group that has gathered to perform the dance...... Finally, to put one's left hand in and shake it all about' is to simply repeat what the first step of the song entails, with the added condition of then shaking it around wildly in a timely matter in accordance to the lyrics of the song.... These steps are then repeated with other body parts until the song concludes. Since the Hokey Pokey can be explained and defined, by your own admission now the Hokey Pokey can be 'refuted', meaning it can be concluded that it is NOT 'what its all about' ""Sisyphus - doing something completely rediculous and possibly even meaningless repeatedly"" Like spelling 'Ridiculous' with an 'E' instead of an 'I' right? Jkjk ;D"	CON	852
852	S418a9f82-A30ecc5fb	Resolved: The US Federal Government should significantly reform its Criminal Justice System (Policy)	"I'll drop my mandate arguments and continue Cost: 1. Your link to the site is broken. I do see. You have not fixed the link, therefore, we cannot know if this number is even credible. SB 171 ""Unknown reimbursable local start-up costs[...]Unknown potential GF trial court savings"" (1). It is unknown how much it would cost. 2. Why couldn't there be more interrogation rooms used more than 10 times per year? Most of your links do not work. 3. I do not ignore your evidence...your link continuously fails. And why can it not change drastically year to year? 4. I to can provide my own math. We'll say 175,000 is correct for now. 175,000 suspects * 10 (a low number for a federal case, witnesses, experts, etc.)= 1.75 million people (low estimate) Now my opponent attempts to basically guess how many interrogation rooms the government controls by making up the number 10. But, we'll go with it. Divide by 10 and your at the original 175,000. Now even if we accept the 7,500 dollar per system (could be higher could be lower depending on the training etc.) Your already at a 1.3 billion dollars...this is not taking into account training technicians and storage of the video and sound files. You cannot accurately estimate the cost.... If each chooses their own equipment then couldn't the cost be higher if they choose more expensive equipment? Advantage 1. 1. But, the ones who are abusive will not be deterred. See number 2 for more details. And if you cannot deal with these situations why change the status quo at all? 2. Shall I bring up the DOD and the CIA? How about Guantanamo Bay and Abu Gharid? They were federal agents. They knew they were not supposed to be doing err...what they were doing (torture). And they did it anyway. Empirical evidence at it's finest. They were not deterred from using TORTURE. What makes my opponent think federal agents within the United States would refrain from say depriving someone of sleep on camera? 3. The United States Supreme Court held in 1969 in Frazier v. Cupp 394 US 731 (1969), that using trickery in interrogation was not a basis to disregard a confession or evidence. Other landmark cases coming to this conclusion include: U.S. v. Harris 914 F.2d 927 (7th Cir. 1990), Holland v. McGinnis 963 F.2d 1044 (7th Cir. 1992), State v. Kelekolio 849 P.2d 58 (Haw. 1993), Lucero v. Kerby 133 F.3d 1299 (10th Cir. 1998), and U. S. v. Byram 145 F.3d 405 (1st Cir. 1998). Have I backed this up enough? Advantage 2. 1. I have provided a source, 2 in fact, who have studied these topics for enough time to come to this conclusion. 2. So your source deals with false confessions. If we assume that false confessions happens for such a small minority, why should the entire system be changed for this tiny minority? If something works 97% of the time should it be changed for the sake of the 3%? I say no because we do not know how this will impact the entire system. Advantage 3 and 6. Fine less disputes, this does not change the fact, more time will be spent reviewing all of the interrogations to make a case. Meaning less efficiency and more money used in preparing for a trial...logically, the prosecutors are going to review the videos...my opponent has conceded the time spent reviewing these videos will outweigh the money saved from less disputes. Advantage 4. It's a bit more complicated than just a camera in a room and a control room...but, they are similar. Not exactly the same but, similar. A federal interrogation room is a bit more high tech than say a state police interrogation room. So how exactly does my opponent plan on figuring out whether the video is going to be evidence? By reviewing the weeks worth of interrogation. So here's the choice: video taping weeks worth of interrogations and making the prosecutors review the weeks of interrogations in order to build a case, or make an interrogator rack their brains trying to figure out what happened and come up with a detailed account of the interrogations thus, making the entire process cost less money and take less time to build the case. With detailed enough notes, an interrogator will be able to figure out exactly what happened during the interrogation. Advantage 5. It is completely relevant. I never tried to discount your source. I am merrily stating interrogators will still take notes to recall what happened later on during the interrogation. I'll give you another example, lets take a rather short 5 hour interrogation. The second question asked (this is probably completely wrong) is what color was the car you were driving. The suspect answers blue. The interrogator does not write this down. Fast forward 4 hours. The interrogator asks the same question what color was the car? The suspect this time answers red. Do you think an interrogator will be able to remember such a detail 4 hours later? Most likely, no. Notes will still be taken so they can use the suspects own words against them. This scenario is probably completely off, but, I hope you can see what I'm saying here, no human being can remember trivial details, which may be quite important later without notes. Logic. Significance: Based on logical reasoning it would cost the prosecutors office much more money which is part of it's significance. I would also like to see this survey because upon reading through Mr. Sullivan's paper (or article) I find no mention of a survey. The problem is not that I could not find the source (I figured that out). The real problem is your links were broken. I get a 404 Error Message Screen. (Besides that is the Supreme Court of NJ, not the United States). You still cannot estimate a total cost. Source: 1. http://www.leginfo.ca.gov..."	CON	853
853	S62a7f62e-A88237f8a	"""Love exists in the life"" - does not prove its value!"	"I thank my opponent for the debate proposition! I gladly look forward to debating this newcomer, and formally welcome him to the site! From the OP [Opening Post], I am assuming my friend Mr.Nasafiy, will be arguing for the position ""Life exists in the love""; Where as I will be arguing for the position of ""Love exists in the life"". This is a very interesting debate topic, and I very much look forward to 5 awesome rounds of philosophical discussion, on quite an un-ordinary and exciting topic. ****FRAMEWORK/RULES**** 1. A forfeit in this debate should be deemed by the viewers as the loss of all seven points towards the contender. 2. Dropped arguments should count towards the loss of a conduct point as decided by the viewers. 3. Both debaters will remain kind, courteous, and respectful throughout the debate. 4. Spelling and Grammar should be awarded as usual. 5. As this is a debate centered around philosophy, statistical evidence shouldn't be required, however, source points should be awarded to the debater who best gives a strong sense of support and analysis for their case. Without further ado, let us begin. ****MY CASE**** DEFINITIONS Let me start by defining a few key terms. Let's start out with the most controversial one; Love. Love has several definitions, none of which are clarified by the instigator of this debate, so I assume it's a broad definition. My opponent never stated that this ""love"" was the love in which the first dictionary references, as a noun;""a profoundly tender, passionate affection for another person."" This definition implies that love is specifically for another human being. However, for matters of interest, I think the verb definition of this word would be more properly suited for the debate at hand, as it applies to all things, and is simply an emotion the impacts a strong feeling towards anything. Love: to have a strong liking for; take great pleasure in: to love music. http://dictionary.reference.com... Exists: to have actual being; be: The world exists, whether you like it or not. http://dictionary.reference.com... Life: the general or universal condition of human existence: Too bad, but life is like that. http://dictionary.reference.com... Value: relative worth, merit, or importance: the value of a collegeeducation; the value of a queen in chess. http://dictionary.reference.com... ****MY CASE**** Okay so there are several ways I can attack this case, between Meta-physical aspects, and theory aspects. So my contentions are going to be a little different in contextualization. This will also open more room for discussion with my opponent on various angles throughout the debate. Contention 1: In order for love to exist, life must first exist. First, the theory argument. Here I will be presenting the classic arguments of ""Did the chicken come before the egg?"". Again this point is to take the resolution into it's abstract and implied meaning. If life didn't exist, then the being in question could not ever love. Love then exists within life. In order to conceptualize a though process, that can sustain the mental capacity required in which to experience the emotion of ""love"", as defined above, this being must be adapted from something, somewhere. Right in the definition of life, we see the phrase that states ""The universal human condition"". The very definition of the word life, then proves in and of itself, that in order to feel such an emotion, we must first become. Why is this argument important? Because this concept goes much deeper than this. A human may have love for one of several different things. A human can love another human. A being, can love an activity, or item. Love can mean many different things in context to the title of this debate topic. However even if we were to use a different definition of the word life, ""Fun and lively"", this would still only be filling a requirement of Life and love, thus giving life the priority. What do I mean by this? Let's give an example shall we? A human can find entertainment in a hobby, or activity, which creates a ""Fun and lively"" (IE life) environment for that individual. Thus the human can describe doing that activity, as something he ""loves"". This creates Love within life. http://authenticliving.com... Contention 2: Love existing within life provides perfect value! Second, the priority argument. Contradicting what the title of the resolution says, Love existing within life actually seems to make perfect sense for creating value. But what is value? The definition says relative worth, merit, and importance, but how do we deem something worthy of being all the great stuff? The answer is love. Yes, when we love something to a degree, it provides a hierarchy of prioritization. We love the things we do, because they add prosperity to our lives. Love in and of itself, is an optional emotion. Their are plenty of other emotions abroad however. Anger, Fear, Confusion, Sadness, contention, Etc. These emotions are all apart of the life we already live. So how do we create value in life? We love! However, by recognizing this we must also recognize that the biggest contributing factor on improving the quality of our lives, is to in fact, love. Love must exist within life, because love is always improving on life. http://joannecipressi.com... Contention 3: Love exists because of life allows it to exist. Third, the scientific argument. Love only exists, because of a being's thought process, and emotional knowledge and subjective know how of what love is. This is empirical, because humans are born and raised, taught from their own youth to know and understand what ""love"" is. Thus love is created purely off of human attachment. But for purposes of staying away from semantics, let's apply this theory to other beings. This is what I will call the ""Love/Like"" argument. What significant detail does the human brain require in order to make a specific distinguishment in the two different words Like and Love? Like: to take pleasure in; find agreeable or congenial: We all liked the concert. http://dictionary.reference.com... This definition seems to apply to a similar way of loving something. However this word ""love"" Uses the word ""like"" in it's own definition? Could it be the that notable difference in the word is the passionate and deeper meaning from the word love? This means to imply that to love something, must mean that we value it's existence over something we say we like. Thus love takes a priority on the word like. Back to the examples again. A human can say he loves the beach. This beach, however, is the epitome of life! For without life, this beach does not exist. Life being the cool summer breeze that passes through the smooth and sandy terrain in which our individual has such a passion for. This beach does not exist outside of life. Life creates the premise in which all of the things that beach gives to the human. The sand between his toes, the water as it rushes, races, and crashes beautifully before him. The simple and known fact is that this is all possible within a concepted idea of what life is. Therefore, if life was not congenial, than the human never experiences love! What experiences does this human feel when graced with the delights of the beach? Do they come from his subjective experience of what is pleasurable or enjoyable in life based on his learned behaviors? The human must have learned somewhere that such things can be loved, thus are worthy of loving, creating love. All possible because of life! http://medical-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com... ****CONCLUSION**** I have come at this resolution from a few different view points, and am excited to extract a healthy controversial debate between me and Dr.Nasifiy! I feel I have provided a strong a firm basis to believe that love is purely existent and reliable to life, thus feel I affirm the resolution. Thankyou, and I look forward to my response!"	PRO	854
854	S1f2335a0-A744cee73	Debate.org should reform its voting criteria	"In round one I posted a link that outlines the voting criteria on DDO and encouraged my opponent to read it. Judging by his round two response it does not appear he has done so. I will post it again: (1) http://www.debate.org... Arguments Pro states that the most important part of deciding any debate is the arguments. I agree and so does DDO. This is why the question of most convincing arguments is worth more points then the other questions. Grammar When evaluating the grammar aspect of voting Pro seems to agree that grammar in terms of understanding the argument should be considered. He states that a not understandable argument would not be considered convincing, which is true. But what about a difficult to understand argument? This is the point where grammar comes in. Many voters can understand an argument because they have knowledge of the subject or because they put in the time needed to understand what was being written. If a debater is not clear and his readers barely understand what he is saying then his arguments would still stand, but he did not communicate them effectively. This is an obvious aspect of debating that should be judged. Conduct Pro states that there is no clear definition of conduct in voting. The following is the explanation provided in the article I referenced in round one and again above(1): Conduct: “Which debater, on balance, was more composed, and used fewer or no personal attacks against their opponent? Improper conduct includes personal insults, profanities, and bad sportsmanlike behavior.” It is true that many members do not vote on conduct based on this definition but this is no fault of DDO’s voting criteria. Who do you agree with? Finally Pro states that the question of who a voter agrees with should be considered in certain circumstances. The whole point of judging a debate is to decide who made the stronger arguments, which in most cases has nothing to do with who the voters agree with in the end. This is because people will agree or disagree for a number of different reasons. Take this debate for example. The very first comment left on this debate reads: ""I agree with Pro for now, but for different reasons.” If I do not address these “different reasons” this member may not agree with me at the end of this debate. But I can’t address his reasons if I do not know what they are. As a debater my responsibility is to refute the arguments made by my opponent, not the voters. In one debate in particular (I will not post because I do not want to sound like I’m whining) I made an argument in round one that showed why my interpretation of the resolution was valid. My opponent conceded my validity argument by not answering to it. Yet I had two voters vote against me because they did not agree with my interpretation of the resolution. I was fully prepared to defend my validity argument but my opponent did not challenge it. The voters by disagreeing with me gave my opponent points for an argument he never made or defended. Voters will rarely if ever change their opinions because of reading a debate. This should not be a burden placed on any debater. The last piece of evidence I will give to support this fact is this forum post: http://www.debate.org... In this post the topic asks if anyone has ever changed their mind as the result of a debate. Many members made it clear that they have either never changed their minds because of one or rarely ever do, which just goes to show how little this has to do with who made the stronger argument."	CON	855
855	S269c4789-A74b7f3e6	Homework is an essential part of education, allowing students to learn information beyond that which they are taught at school.	Homework is not an essential part of information. If what was to be learnt from homework was that essential, it would not be left to the child to learn on their own and away from school. In fact, many teachers admit to simply setting homework because they are expected to set it, not because they think it will be helpful 1. The best environment for learning is in a classroom, where the student is able to ask for assistance if stuck and the teacher is available to help.  . 1 BBC News, 2008	CON	856
856	Saadb9de8-A146efb80	The US should discontinue its use of private military contractors	"== Rebuttal (cont'd from Round 1) == R1) group his C and D 1. Remember, the CRS said that most PMC personnel are locals so they blend in, and thus (turn), they cause less anti-American sentiment than US soldiers, who stand out. 2. Our troops are worse and have less oversight. According to the Wikileaks War Logs, our military has already killed 109,000 civilians in Iraq, 15,000 of which the military had tried to cover-up. [1] 3. Remember, turn, fewer contractors means fewer boots on the ground, which Senlis Afghanistan tells us means an over-reliance on air support, vastly increasing civilian casualties. 4. Turn, many of our translators are contractors (according to the CRS). Without translators, we will lose hearts and minds because we won't be able to communicate effectively with locals. R2) No allegiance 1. My opponent is correct: contractors pay off local warlords in Afghanistan so they don't attack convoys. But with corruption endemic in Afghanistan, our diplomatic corps and military tolerate massive corruption, making this non-unique to contractors. We even tolerate Karzai's stolen election and his drug dealing brother, Ahmed Wali. Paying the warlords off is safer and better for everyone than having more fighting and instability along the nation's highways. 2. According to my opponent's own source, the allegations of contractors paying the Taliban to attack them are completely unsubstantiated and this makes little logical sense anyways. 3. The contractors in Sierra Leone were not U.S. PMC's. We have arrangements with our private military contractors that prevent them from working with nations hostile to the United States. If they did so, they would not be rehired, and U.S. contracts are worth more than the contracts of our opponents (the Taliban?). 4. Contractors used for more sensitive missions are usually former Navy SEALS, who would be extremely loyal to the U.S. R3) Other disadvantages A. Operate solely within contact 1. This is one unfortunate incident, but the Army generally does a better job at writing the contracts to be as broad and general as possible. 2. The DOD Inspector General report found that the Army was equally at fault and could have easily had the electrical problems repaired itself or pushed KBR to repair them; once notified properly of the problems, ""KBR initiated the inspection of over 75,000 structures throughout Iraq and was making life, health, and safety repairs"". [2] B. Waste Money My opponent says ""The Defense Contract Audit Agency found that contractors…"" The fact that there is now a Defense Contract Audit Agency means there is a thousand times more accountability for expenses for PMC's than exists within our own DOD military budget. Christopher Preble documents far more than $10 billion that have been wasted through military procurement programs, like the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, Virginia class submarine, and V22-Osprey. [3] He laments that there is no oversight for these procurement programs, which routinely come in billions of dollars over-budget and often fail to deliver at all. The DOD refuses to even publish its expenditures for inspection. Oversight for contractors is, in fact, better than oversight for our regular military. == Rebuttal to Round 2 == C1) Force multiplier Original argument: currently, only 20% of US forces can be on combat duty at any given time. Without PMC's to perform base support functions, this ratio would be even lower, making our fighting forces extremely ineffective. My opponent claims that the problem would be solved if there were no ""brain drain"" from the military. A brain drain exists among Navy SEALS and specialized personnel, but only because certain contractors are willing to pay them MORE than the military is willing to pay them. But this is not true for the typical base support or logistical support personnel, who costs, on average, $15,000 less than a US government-employed counterpart (according to the GAO). Having 90,000 more troops from Iraq won't solve the problem either, since according to the same CRS report, PMC's account for 50% of our military personnel. We'd need at least an additional 500,000 personnel to replace PMC's everywhere our military currently operates. Extend C3 under this argument as the impact. Without PMC's, we would either need to implement a draft or forgo most of our military operations, such as deterring North Korean aggression against South Korea. My opponent says conscription would never work because of strong domestic opposition, but Vietnam clearly disproves this argument. Many neo-cons within the Bush administration were pushing for conscription; only PMC's prevented such an outcome. C2) Oversight The Armed Contractor Oversight Division along with the Defense Contract Audit Agency have been successful in reigning in abuses other than shooting incidents as well. My opponents other objections just nitpick the study methodology, but any study would be prudent to point out that causation is difficult to prove when there are so many factors. That doesn't negate the fact that there are two new oversight divisions and preliminary evidence shows them to be very effective. In addition, the new Status of Force agreements in Iraq and Afghanistan no longer give contractors immunity to domestic laws, but still grant such immunity to our troops. Contractors are now being prosecuted by Afghanistan and Iraq for the crimes they commit there. [4] C4) Cost My opponent drops the evidence that according to a 20 year CBO study, logistical support is 90% cheaper from PMC's. The other study looks at peacetime savings, which applies to PMC personnel in South Korea, Germany, etc. But given that troops in active combat earn hazard pay and lifetime health insurance, it's likely that we achieve even greater cost savings in Iraq and Afghanistan. C5) Humanitarian interventions This is a big winner for Con. My opponent agrees that without PMC's, political leaders would not have the political cover to intervene in genocides around the world and that PMC's are extremely effective at stopping genocides, as they were in Serbia/Bosnia. His only argument is that they work both sides, but this is not true in Afghanistan (they are not hiring themselves out to the Taliban) or whenever the US is involved. I challenge my opponent to show examples of US PMC's working with the opposition in Serbia or Somalia, when they were used. Clinton had to stand by and watch millions slaughtered in Rwanda because he could not put US boots on the ground due to Somalia. Luckily, by the time the Croatian/Serbian disasters rolled around, Clinton figured out that he could use PMC's to save lives without angering the public. C6) Security Guards Extend the Wikileaks evidence; our military killed hundreds of thousands of civilians. Blackwater has done an amazing job in comparison. And Blackwater has never let someone they were guarding die, something that cannot be said for our own military. The Iraqi police force is so corrupt that a report to Congress recommended they be scrapped. [5] Trusting the State Department in Iraq to their care would be a cruel fate for many American citizens. If you're worried about people trusting us, relying on the local police is the worst possible idea. A 2010 Army report found that people in Afghanistan rank the local police as more dangerous than roadside bombs and criminals. [6] C7) Air support The Senlis Afghanistan report was written prior to the surge in Afghanistan, saying we need more troops to prevent civilian casualties. Obama's additional 30,000 troops brought us up to sufficient levels. Getting rid of PMC's would get rid of 50% of our forces in Afghanistan, which would undoubtedly make us rely more on air support, resulting in many times more civilian casualties. [1] http://tinyurl.com... [2] http://tinyurl.com... [3] The Power Problem, p. 43-52 [4] http://tinyurl.com..."	CON	857
857	Saadb9de8-Abfbd6505	The US should discontinue its use of private military contractors	"I agree that they aren't technically mercenaries, which is why I said that it is the ""slang"" term. It was just used to summarize PMC's in a simple way people can understand. Anyway, lets begin. Contention 1: Contractors destroy US credibility The regular military is strictly trained and tightly regulated by US law. They also must abide by the Rules of Engagement, which prevent abuses from happening whenever they go on a mission. Such things do not exist for Contractors, meaning they can essentially do whatever they want. A. PMC's rape women and force them into prostitution. The inability of contractors to restrain themselves while on duty has resulted in a staggering amount of sexual abuses committed by the industry. In Bosnia, a PMC called DynCorp kidnapped several 12 to 15 year old girls from other countries, raped them, and sold them to each other as slaves (1). The same company also purchased several illegal drugs in Afghanistan and bought male child prostitutes to ""entertain""them. Nobody was charged. In Iraq, several Halliburton employees imprisoned and gang-raped a 22 year old woman in Baghdad, and tried to cover up the corruption (2). PMC's in the Balkans frequently participated in brothels; one of them even videotaped himself having intercourse with two likely underage girls (3). These are only four examples. There are many, many more sexual abuses that have been committed by contractors abroad that I can list if requested. But for now, lets use these to show us that there is clearly a lack of accountability in the private industry, and this enables the raping and forced prostitution of civilians. B. PMC's blatantly attack and kill civilians The most famous disaster of the private industry was Blackwater in 2006. In Iraq, the PMC called Blackwater Worldwide shot and killed 17 Iraqi civilians, and reports confirm that the shootings were completely unwarranted (4). PMC's are also known for killing several civilians in Afghanistan. In addition to killing two of them in August 2010, contractors there are charged with increasing the civilian death rate and working with Afghan warlords (5). And its not just these examples. There are literally hundreds of shootings PMC's have been accused of in Iraq alone (6). C. This causes Anti-Americanism. Civilians witnessing these shootings and abuses don't see these people as unregulated contractors, they see them as Americans. Schwartz explains (7) ""The perception that DOD and other government agencies are deploying PSCs who abuse and mistreat people can fan anti-American sentiment and strengthen insurgents, even when no abuses are taking place. There have been reports of an anti-American campaign in Pakistan, where stories are circulating of U.S. private security contractors running amok and armed Americans harassing and terrifying residents. U.S. efforts can also be undermined when DOD has ties with groups that kill civilians or government officials,"" D. Anti-Americanism undermines the war effort Winning the support of their people is crucial to fighting terrorists or insurgencies. Citizens can have crucial information that can give leads to finding an enemy's hideout or other info. And if the rebels/insurgency that we are trying to fight tries to turn the citizens to their side and against us, its less likely to happen if the US forces are legitimate and well-respected. PMC's eliminate this possibility. By shooting the locals, raping the women, and committing malicious acts of behavior, winning the people's support becomes impossible. Sub point C specifically shows how the entire American force, including the regular military, is undermined by the Contractor's actions. By doing so, PMC's effectively undermine counter-insurgency efforts and make ""winning"" a war a lot harder than it has to be. Contention 2: No allegiance to one nation. Contractors fight on both sides of the conflict. In Afghanistan, contractors have taken millions of dollars the US government has given them and funneled it directly to Taliban warlords (8). Additionally, many PMC employees have supported and joined the Taliban entirely, and are now fighting against the government that hired them in the first place. Even worse, many have been accused of literally paying the Taliban to attack Afghan forces, so that the contractors can fight back and look like they're doing they're job (9). And when Sierra Leone hired contractors to aid the government in a civil war, the PMC Lifeguard gave weapons and supplies to the rebel forces instead (10). Plus, another company called Sandline gave aerial support to the government, and weapons to the rebels. This is possible because of the profit motive. PMC's operate for money, and don't necessarily have to only work for one employer (or nation) at a time. So if country A hires them to fight Country B, they will do it. But if country B offers them money to help them fight country A at the same time, they will find a way to assist country B without country A knowing, to make more money. These types of counterproductive occurrences proves that contractors are unreliable and don't necessarily respect the employer they work for. Contention 3: Other disadvantages A. Operate solely in the contract. No incentive to go the extra mile. Because of being hired on contract, they are only obliged to do what the contract tells them. PMC can and have exploited this. At one point In Iraq, 12 soldiers had been killed of accidental electrocution. But when PMC employees discovered serious electrical problems in an embassy, they refused to repair it because their contract didn't cover ""fixing potential hazards"", it only covered fixing things that were already broken. (11). B. Extort and waste money. The Defense Contract Audit Agency found that contractors in general have over ten Billion dollars worth of questionable costs and charges (12). One example of this is Halliburton charging the Iraqi government to transport ""sailboat fuel"". Conclusion: Private contractors are unregulated (immune from most prosecutions) and operate for money. These two things enable all of the abuses and war profiteering described above. At the point that these actions contractors undergo not only are inherently bad, but undermine the war effort and waste taxpayer dollars, its necessary to cease their use. Thus I affirm. 1. http://en.wikipedia.org... 2. http://agonist.org... 3. http://findarticles.com... 4. http://www.usatoday.com... 5. http://www.envirosagainstwar.org... 6. http://www.huffingtonpost.com... 7. http://www.fas.org... 8. http://www.fas.org... 9. http://www.globalpost.com... 10. http://www.opednews.com... 11. http://www.brookings.edu... 12. http://www.forbes.com..."	PRO	858
858	S3a35888-A2ec052f9	Mankind is slowly working its way toward Utopia	"Ah! Thank you JustMasum for accepting the challenge. According to Google: ""Utopia is an imagined place or state of things in which everything is perfect. The word was first used in the book Utopia (1516) by Sir Thomas More."" Sir Thomas argued that such a place could never exist, and in my opinion, he gives a poor, almost counter-intuitive description of what it would be like. So let's let our imaginations run with this. Let's take a look at the problems of the world today, and do away with them to create our Utopia of tomorrow. 1.) Mass starvation and poverty throughout much of the world. The cure? Governments which are failing the needs of their people need to become governments which meet the needs of their people. Tyrants and central planners need to be disincentivized from running their countries the way they currently do. While self-determination is largely a good thing, those leaders who abuse their powers should, for the good of mankind, be toppled. A way to accomplish this is to give current administrations a set amount of time to bring their countries up to such-and-such a standard of living. Those who can't or refuse to comply will find the collective weight of those countries who do want to attempt to establish a global Utopian ideal upon their doorstep forcing them to change. 2.) Education. Countries which are further ahead on their individual roads to Utopia need to reach out to the serfs, peons, and poor of struggling countries and inspire them not to settle for their supposed lot in life. The masses need to become optimistic. They need to become productive, which largely means they need to become educated. To this end, all countries need to defend common human rights, and invest in schools, libraries, internet infrastructure, and whatever else positively affects the subject countries. 3.) Ownership of private property is imperative. People need to believe that they are working for something tangible. As societies come closer and closer to the Utopian goal, they'll see that this becomes less and less necessary. 4.) Utopia will mean different things to different people, but insofar as it is possible, the world's movers and shakers need to provide the support and protections to each group that identifies its own form of 'social nirvana.' For instance, Utopia to Tasmanian tribesmen may be a very primitive sort of existence, while to Americans it may be a technological wonderland, etc. Mankind can create different facades on the face of these wonderlands. To a child, paradise is an amusement park, but Six Flags has a different look and feel from Disney World which is different from Knott's Berry Farm, etc. 5.) All religions should take a back seat to reason. While many religious people couldn't imagine life without their devotionals, etc., there will never be any peace on earth as long as billions of people are squabbling over the relative truths and falsehoods among their wholly unprovable religious claptrap. Religion is philosophical baggage of a most tedious sort which needs to be tossed overboard as soon as the opportunity affords itself. Secular humanists need to press home their arguments for a better life through reason. 6.) Although we call it Utopia, there will still be sickness, and people accidentally slipping on the ice, or improperly wired devices starting house fires, etc. But nanotechnology and other advancements may aid in stamping out the most common illnesses, while weather control may help prevent unwanted storms, or bring much needed rain to areas suffering drought. New and better technological improvements will create a safer, more efficacious environment for all. 7.) Hollywood, and the like, always enjoy making movies or stories about Paradise going awry. They often show how a lack of adversity leads to a sterile, institutional, and drone-like existence which no one would enjoy. Part of the Utopian challenge is to ensure that life remains fun, exciting, and challenging. If this means taking bodily risks in extreme sports, or hi-stakes gambling, or drug induced hallucinations, etc., these all could be accommodated to some degree. People would know the risks associated with their addictions and be willing to start over at the bottom and work their way back to their level of comfort. 8.) Ultimately, Utopia consists of all governments cooperating one with another; people being valued by their respective governing authorities; communities looking out for every inhabitant; and inhabitants being educated and productive members of society who also value one another. 9.) In the event that criminals or criminal organizations should still persist, an area of the world very much the antithesis of Utopia would be established as a penal colony. After freezing their asses off for a few months, criminals would be allowed to reconsider their place in the Utopian society. Frequent offenders would be permanently banished for the good of everyone else, or, in the case of a mass murderer, their life function would be terminated in the quickest, humanest, method possible, their remains being dissolved, flushed down the nearest loo, and donated to the communities sanitation department. What triggered this whole line of thought was another thread which was moaning about how bad things are these days... how society is going down the tubes. I reminded him that he wasn't suffering under Roman persecution, or his town was not under the threat of being invaded by the likes of Attila the Hun or Tamerlane. He was not under the threat of the Spanish Inquisition or living a horridly tedious religious life like the Puritans. We have come a long way, with hot and cold water in every home, a Walmart in every town, electricity and natural gas at our fingertips. Oh, we have it so tough! There are no more lumberjack bunkhouses full of lice and bedbugs, nor cattle drives or prairie towns subject to attack by the Apaches or Comanches, or what have you. There are smooth highways to take us cross country and airlines to take us to Europe in a matter of days instead of weeks. This isn't Utopia, not yet... but it could be just around the corner."	PRO	859
859	Sde24f30f-A22e48a19	Resolved: Texas would best serve its interest by seceding from the Union	Apologies in advance: this was speed written with no proofread during a very busy week. I will respond to my opponent using his numbering: Con Case: 1. Civil War 1) The consistent pattern is Jackson’s affirmation of the use of force against S Carolina during the Nullification Crisis, the Civil War, the Supreme Court affirming that States have no right to secede, and the Obama White House stating the Founding Faters “did not provide a right to walk away ... more than 600,000 Americans died in a long and bloody civil war that vindicated the principle that the Constitution establishes a permanent union between the States.” 2) Our involvement in Libya was still an act of war, extend all my evidence of the massive military involvement of the US in the past decade alone. The US has never been gun shy and won’t be in the face of secession. 3) Now Pro want to say Canadian secession was “relatively” peaceful- he struggles to provide even a few examples of peaceful secession. African independence wasn’t peaceful- there were massive riots and guerilla warfare in Algeria, race wars in South Africa, rampant Civil Wars across the nation, a rise in cruel dictators like Mobutu. Aside from the Cold War and violence at the hands of state police in the USSR, sure the dissolution of the USSR was peaceful. It is indeed rare for secession to occur peacefully. 4) Pro offers no analysis as to how the cost outweighs benefits for the US to go to war. Pro concedes that the US would win a Civil War, and also concedes that secession would devastate the US economically and tank US Heg. Even by Pro’s count it is in the US best interest to preserve the Union by force. That some people have friends in Texas will matter about as much as all the Chinese people living in the US matter to current US-Sino relations. 5) US maintained Hegemony during the Cold War- that’s why we won and western influence dominates the world. 2. Hegemony 1) I didn’t drop the N Korea example- I pointed out that the fact that North and South Korea ARE NOT fighting proves the US stabilizes- the Korean Armistice was signed by the US. The fact that nuclear proliferation is occurring doesn’t prove US Heg is irrelevant, it just proves that some problems continue to be intractable. Hegemony isn’t a magic wand, it’s a very stable power structure. 2) Pro misses my Syria point- the UN is divided on enacting Syria SANCTIONS showing they are a non-unified actor, which impedes their efficacy. By the way the US has enacted sanctions on Syria[1]. Pro points out the economic instability of EU member states yet points to it as a reliable global force. Note that Pro drops my point that NATO is useless without the US. 3) Pro’s evidence the terrorist attacks are up is a blog chart with little cartoon faces on it and poorly documented sources. Anyways cat’s out of the bag on the US being in the Middle East- I don’t think terrorists are going to look kindly on the birthplace of GW Bush even if it doesn’t have troops in the Middle East. Extend my evidence the US Heg is key to power projection and the ability to reach far off places like Pakistan, this is how we killed Bin Laden and crippled Al Qaeda. 3) Pro gives no evidence that Texas could handle immigration better, just that there are a lot of illegals now. 4) The South China Sea is a region of border disputes and a flashpoint for wars to start- my evidence lists several examples of small scale engagements. Threat of U.S. intervention dampens these conflicts, but if Pro thinks that a war between China and Japan is in Texas’ best interest then I guess we can ignore the South China Sea. 5) Iraq doesn’t have to be a good state for the US presence to help global security. US presence in the Middle East stabilizes oil reserves which are crucial to the global economy and maintains a balance of power- clearly observable in the Persian Gulf War. Global instability doesn’t look like an Iraqi failed state, it looks like an Iraqi dictator with his hand on the global oil supply. 3. Economy 1. Pro is right- it isn’t hard to come up with a tax system for Texas- its hard to get politicians to agree to legislate a tax system that is capable of replacing federal funding. Replacing 33% of the budget will be a drawn out political nightmare. 2. The point remains that Texas can’t rely on a trade economy and depends heavily on the US via defense spending, oil refineries, etc. On a side note, I bet most of Texas’ wine comes from California. It would suck to not have wine. 3. Brain drain will occur as soon as jobs move across the Texas border. When Lockheed and Martin moves its jobs to Virginia, the workers will follow. 4. When Lockheed leaves, it will take its “assets and people” with. Top management will go where the government contracts are and it doesn’t take a corporate genius to know that a brand new country will not be nearly as reliable a customer as the faithful repeat buyer of the USA. 5. Heg has nothing to do with companies leaving Texas. Defense contractors work for the US. When Texas is no longer part of the US, their contracts with the USFG will force them to leave. Recall that Texas’ largest economic sector is defense. 6. “Higher export costs of oil means cheaper oil for citizens residing in Texas” No. It creates higher global oil prices via market inefficiency. Pro Case Economy 1. Some countries had positive growth during the recession- these were the exception not the rule, reference my R2 evidence that only 1 EU country maintained positive growth and even the growth rate of other countries slowed. None of these countries were as closely intertwined with the US as Texas is. Additionally, the total collapse of the US economy would be magnitudes worse than the recession. Finally, per my R2 evidence, the post-recession global economy is already weakened and less resilient meaning the next shock will destroy the system. 2. Pro gives no timeframe or limit on how much debt will trigger the unemployment impacts he cites- these impacts could be decades down the road, giving us plenty of time to come up with solutions. Secession is an immediate guarantee that the US and global economy collapses, meaning that even if Pro wins that the US is on a bad path Texas should still not secede. 3. My evidence also says that we have made strides toward reducing the debt growth, showing there is hope for a political solution. All of Pro’s debt growth predictions are based on the status quo, no one can account for political solutions not in place- and my evidence shows that political solutions are emerging. Again, its try-or die. 4. Extend that debt is an investment- just because some of the debt (Social Security) doesn’t directly fund human capital doesn’t change that most of it does. The bulk of the debt funds medical welfare, defense, infrastructure, etc. which help grow the economy. Culture Pro offers no evidence that Texans mostly value the same things. This whole point is silly- lets talk about how Texas should start a civil war because they don’t agree with Maine on gun control. I don’t agree with my coworkers on gun control but Im not going to quit my job over it, because that wouldn’t be in my best interest. Ability to Secede: Extend that Texas will lose all tanks, airplanes, computer systems, trucks, medical supplies, disaster response supplies belonging to the US. Good luck protecting your borders without your government issued assault rifles. Economy of Scale Even if Pro wins that there are economies of scale, this isn’t a reason for Texas to leave. Pro uses evidence that China is corrupt to prove Texas should leave the US. But the US isn’t China- Pro needs to prove the US is corrupt to prove it is worth leaving and he doesn’t do this. Also, extend that many small countries like Nigeria are very corrupt- Pro needs to prove Texas wouldn’t be corrupt. Conclusion A house divided against itself cannot stand. [1] http://usforeignpolicy.about.com...	CON	860
860	Sbcbd1234-Abca3be01	Public schools should offer education in world religions both historically and in religious beliefs	I accept the debate and will be arguing that no religion should be taught in schools.	CON	861
861	S633bdeb7-A226db0c3	The United States federal government should substantially curtail its domestic surveillance.	"Burdens - because the affirmative holds the change in the status quo in their hands, they have the burden of proof to show why we need to affirm. If they do not fulfill this burden, vote neg on presumption. ------------------------------ Capitalism Kritik First, I concede all of their inherency. Yes, the lines between government and corporations are vanishing - I concede. I concede that the current corporate presence is the only way to have modern state surveilance. I concede that surveillance ensures a culture of compliance. Now, onto the plan. The affirmative's plan is using the courts to absolve the amount of corporate interest within the surveillance state as we see today, but this is something that is fundamentally flawed. As Howard Zinn (“It’s not up to the Court,” The Progressive, November, http://www.progressive.org...) writes, the focus on the court is myopic – the court and constitution are infinitely flexible, and always used to further interests of capital. Capital is the main influence of the courts, so the affirmative's plantext furthers the inherent use of capital and its influence on the modern status quo and the future - they are continuing the capitalist totality that we see today. Further, Istvan Meszaros (“Structural Crisis of Politics,” Monthly Review, September, Proquest) writes that the court is blatantly and openly disregarded with no consequence when the interests of capital dictate it – tinkering with the law can’t solve the structural causes of the aff harms. So we can see from these two authors that the affirmative's plantext refers to the use of the court to absolve corporatism, but corporatism is actually enforced in the future! Joel Kovel (“The Enemy of Nature,” p140-141, 2002) writes that capitalist influence on nature and the current court system negates the entire value to human life - everything becomes a market abstraction [though the use of courts] and makes extinction inevitable. David Harvey (The Limits to Capital, p. 442-443, 2006) writes that capital’s thirst for geographical expansion culminates in horrifyingly destructive inter-imperialist global wars and the violent eradication and domination of ‘primitive’ populations. The use of these courts to futher corporatism, under the affirmative's plan, will lead to the courts being decided by the corporate interests and resource wars and attacking primitive populations to continue. Daniel Quinn in My Ishmael writes that capitalism as it stands today is the complete and total erosion of the Other, leading to only what we want to continue to exist. Native populations did and will continue to die off if we continue the idea of corporate or 'fundamental' capitalism. David Harvey continues from above that the contradictory spatial dynamics of capitalist accumulation culminate in imperialist war and the violent exploitation and impoverishment of subordinate populations. Poverty will increase as corporatism does, the affirmative's plantext is continuing the exploitation and impoverishment of the natural person - vote aff and continue poverty and all of the harms that exist from it (drugs, gambling, structural collapse, etc.) The alternative is to reject the affirmative's plan as it exists to further the use of the court. The act of rejection creates a the fissures necessary to resist global capitalism (John Holloway 05 John, 8-16, “Can We Change The World Without Taking Power?”). As an intellectual your rejection of capitalism has emancipatory results relentless criticism allows capitalism to be challenged (Joel Kovel from above). Today, you need to reject capitalism - it creates the fissures needed to actually prevent this capitalist totality that we see today taking over the world! ------------------------------ Afropessimism Kritik If you don't buy what I said above, now you can really listen! Again, with the inherency, I drop all of it as I outlined above. The affirmative's plantext is guided through the world of heavenly and utopian reform. They reform the surveillance state as it exists, and they claim that it is a net benefit. However, as Haritaworn et al (Queer Necropolitics, 2014) writes that reform is just reactionary conservatism – their unwillingness to accept that systemic antagonisms cannot be fixed means their project is permeated with whiteness. That's right - the reform of the affirmative's worldview is riddled with the unwillingness to actually do something to the surveillance state - they do not attack the systemic antagonisms, and thus, they are continuing only whiteness and are oppressing the black. Further, they are continuing the use of the court, meaning that they are using the state as a means to solve for all of their harms. What they fail to realise, as Martinot and Sexton (“The Avant-Garde of White Supremacy”, Social Identities, Volume 9, Number 2, 2003) write, state involvement and court-ordered equality perpetuates white supremacy, shifts attention away from gratuitous violence. The use of the court continues the love of the white over the black and continues the oppression that the black faces. It comes to no surprise that this anti-blackness of the affirmative's worldview has some real world realised impacts that are tangible. The black becomes synonymous with worthlessness, and the value to black life ceases to exist ... we no longer care for black flesh because we can find meaning only in white flesh (Peter, “Utilitarianism Is Unjust” 2007). They continue to rectify these inherently bad power structures that come into play, because whites are the only people that they believe are worth caring for (Thomas Powell, ""The Persistence of Race in America""). So, instead of accepting the affirmative's plan as the gospel and oppressing the black, we need to burn down the systems that the affirmative is working within - only though burning down these systems can we finally know peace. We need to bring down the court, not give them the ability to give warrants, to see real change in the world, as Anthony Paul Farley (""Perfecting Slavery,"" 2005) writes. We need to burn down the affirmative's plantext to see freedom. ------------------------------ Queer Theory Again, inherency and all that, just see above. The affirmative uses the idea of political debate here today, they use the systems as they are in place to talk about what we ought to do. But as Lee Edelman (""No Future: Queer Theory and the Death Drive"" 2004) writes, political debate is necessarily framed in terms of the Child, which ideologically constrains our thinking in terms of heteronormativity. Any possible political reform will remain within this heterosexist mindset, making real change impossible. Queerness refuses political reaffirmation of the future Child, resisting the social structures that authenticate reproductive futurism. What this means is that the affirmative's use of the political debate as we have today is framed in the future - something only affirming of heteronormative stances on the world. The impact is disastorous and cannot be imagined ... heteronormativity has so much power that the people it ends up destroying the identity of those it affects in what is called 'Soul Murder', as Gust Yep, Karen Lovaas, John Elia write (""Journal of Homosexual Studies, Vol. 45, No. 2/3/4"", 2003). Further, as Moshe Rozdzial (""Anti-Semitism and Heterosexism: Common Constructs of Oppression"" Winter 2000) writes, heterosexism justifies dehumanization and violence as Anti-Semitism did with the Jews in Nazi Germany. The affirmative's discourse ensures that we dehumanise the queer and to make the queer Othered, making violence as bad as the Holocaust become a stark reality. Alternative - do not continue the idea of the state as we know it or the political discourses of the affirmative's plan."	CON	862
862	Sb552379f-Ae54872cd	U.S. schools should teach comprehensive, sex-positive sex education instead of abstinence (Part 2)	I accept the challenge. (I would still, however, copy some of my arguments and sources from the previous debate) Please don't rebut those arguments in this debate as I yet to post it here. kindly post your reasons first and later is the rebuttal...I am sure you're aware of that. (I hope you're not the same person with that from the previous debate)	CON	863
863	Sb552379f-A3d3e8cb	U.S. schools should teach comprehensive, sex-positive sex education instead of abstinence (Part 2)	I will intentionally forfeit this round because I barely have 8 mins left to post my arguments. I will just post my arguments in round 4. In the name of fairness, I am calling my opponent to please forfeit with acknowledgement the round 4. Thank you for consideration.	CON	864
864	Sa45fb68d-A92b92407	The Biblical Actions of the Christian God are Inconsistent with Its Biblical Attributes (et al)	"Please be patient with me and allow me to summarize how I view your response: Two men are walking. One picks up a stone and throws it up in the air, accidentally smacks himself on the head and states ""Should have seen that coming, what goes up must come down!"" The second man guffaws ""What the heck is that supposed to mean?"" The first rubs the now large bump ""Its called Gravity."" The second responds sarcastically ""suurre."" The first asks with a queer overcast look ""You never heard the definition what goes up must come down?"" The second responds, ""That simply isn't true. There is no such thing as Gravity and not everything that goes up must come down. I can point to birds. They go up but they do not have to go down. The Moon is always in the sky. So is the sun! Heck even clouds go floating by! You are a silly person."" The first is aghast ""It's a simple definition to explain a much larger concept. Do you not know about Stellar Bodies Gravitational pulls, aerodynamics and how birds fly? Do you not know the earth's water cycles?"" The Second ""You do not know what you are talking about. Silly Gravitational propaganda."" The first stutters ""But, wait I will explain all of these things to you."" And the first proceeds to attempt to explain. The Second man states ""Riiight. There is no proof, prove the mystical ""stellar forces"" that keep the moon in the sky."" The first gets excited ""Well you see…."" He then details the mathmatics and detailed information. The second replies in an obtuse fashion. ""That is so ridiculous all of that is unverifiable!"" The first states with a ""But you did not even try to research what I just told you. You did not do the math for yourself. Others have done tons of studies! If you actually try to verify gravity you will see it exists!"" The second states ""You are not worth talking to silly man."" Can you guess which of the two you fall in line with? You have not even researched the understanding I have displayed. We Say ""Jesus Loves you"" We Say ""Jesus Paid for all the bad things you have done"" You have no idea the bigness that is inherent in those simple definitions. 1.On Slavery You state things like ""Kinsman Redeemer what a Silly Concept!"" (I say this with no malice but with a pleading tone) But it's a biblical one. Did you know that? Lev 25:48 he retains the right of redemption after he has sold himself. One of his relatives may redeem him: 49 An uncle or a cousin or any blood relative in his clan may redeem him. Or if he prospers, he may redeem himself. This applies to slavery in the biggest way. 2.On Righteousness You state ""Lot was not Righteous for what He did!"" People can be more righteous than others… Did you know that? Matt 5:20 For I tell you that unless your righteousness surpasses that of the Pharisees and the teachers of the law, you will certainly not enter the kingdom of heaven. (Again begging, pleading) There is a righteousness that does not come from sin but from faith…. Did you know that? Rom 9:30-31 ""What then shall we say? That the Gentiles, who did not pursue righteousness, have obtained it, a righteousness that is by faith"" 1.Perfection of God's Law You state ""God had to do away with the first Covenant. It could not have been perfect!"" The first perfect covenant stated it would go away and the second one would be coming, the first was perfect because it pointed to the second…. Did you know that? ""Jer 31:31""The time is coming,"" declares the LORD, ""when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah"" 2.Merciful Warlike/Peaceful You state things like ""God said he was merciful, but demands war!"" God is abounding in mercy for those that stop doing the bad things and start doing the good things, but He will always punish the guilty…. Did you know that? Ex 34:6-7 ""The LORD, the LORD, the compassionate and gracious God, slow to anger, abounding in love and faithfulness, 7 maintaining love to thousands, and forgiving wickedness, rebellion and sin. Yet he does not leave the guilty unpunished"" You state things like ""God states He is a God of peace but He also states He is a God of war."" God is only at peace with those who do good things… Did you know that? Luke 2:14 ""Glory to God in the highest heaven,"" they sang, ""and peace on earth for all those pleasing him."" You state ""God ordered the women to be killed, heck everyone was wiped out!"" Rahab was a woman, in fact a prostitute, she chose God and not the evil people she was living with, choosing God is what saves you… Did you know that? Josh 6:17 The city and all that is in it are to be devoted to the LORD. Only Rahab the prostitute and all who are with her in her house shall be spared, You state ""God kills off Children!"" So do we when we reject God… Did you know you are personally responsible for the result of your Children's lifestyle; children are punished corporately for the choices of their nation? Ex 34:7 maintaining love to thousands, and forgiving wickedness, rebellion and sin. Yet he does not leave the guilty unpunished; he punishes the children and their children for the sin of the fathers to the third and fourth generation."" You state ""yeah but no matter what you say God ordered* the death of Innocent Children!!! What is more innocent than a naked Baby!!!"" You have no idea that God punishes the Innocent for the sake of the Guilty. It is what Jesus did for us. He was completely innocent but He paid the price for us. What is more innocent than a Holy Righteous God? Every Christian is swayed by this statement: If the innocent cannot die for the sake of or under the punishment of the guilty under God's justice, then the sacrifice of Christ could not be permitted either. God also ordered the Death of Christ. He did this so we all may live. You have sinned. You have stolen, lied, lusted after bad things. Do you think, if you were judged by the standards of a Holy God do you think you would go to heaven or hell? Imagine that you stand in front of a Judge. You have committed a horrible crime. The Judge levies a fine of 1 million dollars. There is no way you can pay that fine. You are going to jail for a very very long time. You say to that Judge ""Your Honor, because you are a good man I know you will forgive me and let me go."" The Judge will respond to you ""Because I am a good man, I have to serve justice. You must pay for your crime! I cannot let you go. You committed a horrible act. You must pay."" Just then your Older Brother comes into the room. He is your kinsman and states: ""I will pay that fine sir! Just anyone the Judge could ignore, but your innocent older brother will pay your fine. That is what Jesus did for us. The Judge will listen In conclusion: You stated I ""performed"" an ad hominem in regards to your lack of knowledge like Trypho. Ad hominems are always invalid in syllogistic logical arguments. However we are making judgments from evidence. That invalidity does not apply. In the weight of the evidence placed in the debate all you have rested on are supposed ""logical arguments"". You keep shooting out ""logical"" terms as though I am performing all of these supposed invalid tactics. I am just showing you one where you are wrong. On the evidence, I did not rest on my degree that was stated for clarity. I rested on the most reliable source in Christianity in regards to biblical interpretation, Justin Martyr. Justin Martyr lived in Greece in the same era as Christ. There was not an exegetical debate in his time as to what the Greek meant. His interpretations of Scripture have stood the test of Time. Christians throughout History have affirmed his understanding. You quoted no source for your understanding. I am certain I can find a website that would agree with you, but they are not held as an authority on Biblical interpretation."	CON	865
865	S105b8a3c-A7586ba45	The USFG should universalize its healthcare system.	"Good topic Tim, I'm glad we can debate this... I appreciate the fact that you, unlike many of your liberal constituents, acknowledge the fact in the second paragraph of your opening argument, that America has top quality healthcare. I'm glad you realize this fact and put it out there for the voting audience to see as it will be a big part of my argument against yours. I'd like to pose a question and I'd like you to think about it as I make my points during this opening argument: Why do you think the quality is at the top here in America? Reason 1: The Doctors Incentives Doctors are some of the smartest graduates out there. Many of them are smart enough to accomplish anything they want, and choose any career they want. Why do these folks get into the field of medicine then? Aside from it interesting them and wanting to help people the answer comes down to a simple word: money. Yes, it's a cruel world, and it's crazy to think that doctors don't come to work everyday to look at sick and disease-ridden people for fun, but it's true. It's their job and they're there to make money. They get paid the big bucks because their profession is a skilled, stressful and time-consuming one. Why would a smart and capable young man or woman with the freedom to go anywhere with their life choose to spend 8 years in post-secondary education, take a job that is stressful and high pressure with a large workload far-extending the traditional 'work day'? The answer is simply the financial benefits. Under a Socialized Health Care plan, the doctors wages would drastically fall and there would be no monetary incentive for smart people to get into the business when they could make more being, say a lawyer. There would either be a shortage of doctors and those still in the field would have even larger numbers of patients to worry about (thus less time per patient will be available); or there would still be many doctors in the field but they will be less qualified. If doctor jobs are always available, people will get into the field just so they can be guaranteed a job, and chances are these people won't exactly be cream of the crop. When you need brain surgery do want the guy who got all A's in medical school or the guy who barely passed but secured his job merely because there was a great need for doctors and they were willing to take just about anyone with a medical agree? As it is now, the best doctors get the jobs and the bad doctors don't make it, thus bringing only the best care to the American people. Reason 2: Free Markets & Privatization Currently, health providers are private businesses and work within the free market economy that America knows and loves. By making health care government owned-and-operated, we are giving way too much power to the government in an area which they should not be involved. Your health is your business and it is a private matter, it is not any business of the state. By taking the competition out of the business of health care, you are settling for whatever you get. It's called a monopoly. If you want health care you have but one place to go, too bad if you don't like it. Even if the health care sucks (which it will) you have no choice. In our current system, if your doctor sucks what do you do? You change doctors or if your insurance company sucks you may be able to change insurance companies. After a while the bad doctors patients are all going to leave and he'll be out of a job, meanwhile the good doctors will thrive and continue providing excellent care for your money. This is an example of competition, without which, we are forced into mediocrity. Reason 3: We're Medical Pioneers You were quick to point out that America spends more (16% of GDP) than countries like Japan and Sweden per year. What you failed to recognize is that America is also the world's leader in medical innovation/advancement and medical technology. It's because of us that countries like Japan and Sweden can spend less, they steal our technology and technique after we spend loads of money to come up with it. Not only do we help the world have better medical care, but we're lucky because we generally get the first crack at new technology and procedures. Without America, the world would be in a much worse place medically-speaking. Reason 4: Taxes I already have health insurance through my job and I pay a small co-pay (about $20 a week) and my employer pays the rest. If Universal health care becomes a reality, I'm looking at spending WAY more per week, but rather than pay it to/through my employer, it would come out through taxes by the way of even larger income taxes. It is estimated that I would be paying about 15-25% more in taxes which pans out to around $90 more a week. That's $70 less income per week that I should have in my pocket, and what do I have to show for it? Worse health care than I had when I paid $20 a week? $90 x 52 paychecks a year = $4,680 as compared to $1,040 when I was sharing the cost with my employer. So now I have to pay for my health insurance by myself as well as for our illegal immigrant and lazy jobless friends. This is thievery and corruption of the highest level and will not stand in a free republic. Reason 5: Health Care is NOT A RIGHT! The only rights we have are those granted to us in the Constitution, and no where in there does it say every American deserves free care for no reason. Health care is something you earn like a house, a car, food, and any other thing you may want or need. This is America where freedom reigns, no one is stopping anyone from achieving for themselves. If Americans take freebies from the government, the government will take freedom from the Americans. I'm not willing to sacrifice my freedoms and wreck the medical profession, economy, and my personal income so every American can be covered. I'd also like to say that 18,000 people dying, that could have been prevented is hearsay. There's no way to literally prove if they would have lived or not based on their health care situation. I did read the USA Today article that you undoubtedly pulled this factoid from and you forgot to mention that this ""ESTIMATED DEATH TOLL"" had included a hypothetical 1,400 people with high blood pressure, and 1,500 hypothetical people with HIV. Both of these are preventable diseases if you eat right and don't have lewd sexual encounters or illegal drug usage. The report failed to mention how many other preventable diseases the other hypothetical people had, but it's fair to say it was probably quite a few of them. The study has no actual proof or numbers to back it up, it's just numbers pushed around used to prove their point. Let me close by saying that I wish that Universal Health Care was a realistic possibility. I would love for every American to have health care. However, I judge ideas by the facts, not by its intentions, and I conclude this plan would do more harm than good to this great country."	CON	866
866	S701e7d34-A217440	Agnosticism can not support its claims with facts and evidence	What is Agnosticism? According to the Oxford dictionary[1], an Agnostic is: “a person who believes that nothing is known or can be known of the existence or nature of God or of anything beyond material phenomena; a person who claims neither faith nor disbelief in God.” From the mid- 19th century: from a-1 'not' + gnostic. In the Latin it simply means to have “no knowledge”. However, it is obvious that my opponent has knowledge as a human being. I consider my opponent to be a rational, intelligent, individual. My argument is simply saying that his proposition or what he holds to be true, mainly “agnosticism”, is irrational and false. The Impossibility of Agnosticism Agnosticism is a self-defeating or self-refuting proposition. Why? Well as we can see above, the proposition “We can’t know if God does or does not exist”, is actually making a knowledge claim that requires justification. However, it would be impossible for my opponent to show how he knows that we can’t know if God exits or does not exist since his worldview means to withholding knowledge. Thus he would violate his own claim making it self-defeating because he has knowledge of not having knowledge for the existence or non-existence of God. No Point of Reference Agnosticism does not have a point of reference to verify its claims simply because it is a self-contradiction in terms. I will explain down here below. 1. It violates the Law of Non-Contradiction- There are three versions of the Law of Non-Contradiction: an ontological, a doxastic and a semantic version. Agnosticism does not really have anything to do with the ontological version of the Law of Non-Contradiction since the ontological version is referring to objects. But, Agnosticism does violate the doxastic and semantic version of LONC. The Doxastic version says that “It is impossible to hold (suppose) the same thing to be and not to be (Metaph IV 3 1005b24 cf.1005b29–30).” An alternate way of understanding the second formulation is to treat it not as a descriptive claim about human psychology, but as a normative claim, a claim about what it is rational to believe. On this view, it is not that Con cannot believe that x is F and not F &c, but that Con cannot rationally do so. Therefore, Con can’t rationally hold Agnosticism as true since it is a knowledge claim about not having knowledge. Now to the Semantic version of the LONC. The semantic version is that “opposite assertions cannot be true at the same time”. My opponent can’t now and know at the same time. [4] 2. Origins: Science may explain the process by which we got here; however, Science can’t explain the reason why we are here, and where we came from in relation to the big bang. All Science says is that we got here and that’s final. Agnosticism can’t account for where we came from since it is unsure of our beginning. 3. Meaning: There is no ultimate reason to explain why we exist if Agnosticism is true. Life would become absurd. That doesn’t mean that my opponent can’t live a happy life, but what it means is that my opponent can’t live consistently and objectively because his worldview can’t tell him the reason for why he exists. Agnosticism can’t give us an objective reason or purpose for human existence. 4. Morality: If God’s existence is disputed, then we can’t really have a sound foundation for why or where objective moral values and duties come from. That is not to say that my opponent can’t uphold moral values or duties, but that my opponent would have no reason to since his worldview doesn’t have any standard to place them on. Morality would be preferences on my opponent’s worldview. 5. Destiny: If God’s existence is unknown, then there really is no afterlife. Again life would become pointless and absurd because on my opponent’s worldview there is nothing to really live for since death is the end of all things. There would be no objective reason to live life as an agnostic. Why the Judeo-Christian worldview? Only in the Judeo- Christian worldview do you see a consistency because it has a point of reference to account for the 4 main questions in life: How did I get here? Why am I here? What am I worth? And Where am I going? Also the Judeo-Christian worldview, is the only worldview that has a point of reference to confirm itself through: history, science, prophecy, and archaeology. Origins: As I said earlier, Science can only tell us the process by which we got here. But it can’t tell us from where we came from. It can only explain life up until the point of the Big Bang. There must be a timeless, immaterial, space-less, metaphysical necessary being Meaning: The ultimate purpose for all man-kind in the Judeo-Christian world-view is to be in a relationship with God. However, man broke that relationship and fellowship with God through his sin. It is only through Christ can that be restored. Jesus of Nazareth claimed to be the Son of God and proved it through his death and resurrection 2000 years ago. He is the only one who restored that relationship that man couldn’t. Morality: God must be necessary for objective moral values and duties to exist. The ten commandments are best summed up as sacred. Your life is sacred. Your property is sacred. Your marriage is sacred. Your time is sacred. Your worship is sacred, etc. Now of course that doesn’t mean that people didn’t know morality before the Ten- commandments, everyone knows right from wrong because the law is written on everyone’s heart. God is the ultimate standard for objective moral values and duties to exist. Morality is the single most empirically provable fact. We come to know moral values and duties from our five senses. It also makes since that God would be necessary for objective moral duties as well. Moral duties can only arise from an authority figure. Our moral duties reflect God’s nature because God is good, therefore, it logically follows that God’s command’s would be good in order to reflect his nature. Only with an objective moral-law giver (God) can you explain why objective moral values and duties exist. Destiny: On the Judeo-Christian worldview, do we see hope be defined for all mankind objectively. Because Christ died on the cross for all mankind and because he was resurrected from the dead, mankind can have eternal life if they believe in Jesus as their Lord and Savior. He will give them eternal life. That is true hope. (John3:16). Science: There must be a God who exists to explain all the fine tuning of the Universe.[3] History: The Crucifixion and Resurrection of Jesus are based on overwhelming, established, objective historical facts. Jesus’s Crucifixion is attested to in the 4 gospels as well as 9 secular sources within 150 years(Josephus, Tacitus, Suetonius, Pliny the Younger, Lucian,etc.). Jesus resurrection is based on 4 historical facts as well. The majority of Ancient historians and New Testament scholars, whether religious or non-religious agree upon 4 facts that happened after Jesus was crucified.[3] 1. The burial of Jesus: Jesus’ burial is attested in the very old tradition quoted by Paul in I Cor 15 3 The burial story is part of very old source material used by Mark in writing his gospel. As a member of the Jewish court that condemned Jesus, Joseph of Arimathea is unlikely to be a Christian invention. There was strong resentment against the Jewish leadership for their role in the condemnation of Jesus (I Thess. 2.15). It is therefore highly improbable that Christians would invent a member of the court that condemned Jesus who honors Jesus by giving him a proper burial instead of allowing him to be dispatched as a common criminal. 2. The empty tomb The story is simple and lacks signs of legendary embellishment. A woman’s testimony was discounted in first century Palestine stands in favor of the women’s role in discovering the empty tomb. The earliest Jewish allegation that the disciples had stolen Jesus’ body (Matt. 28.15) shows that the body was in fact missing from the tomb. 3. The post-mortem apperances The appearance traditions in the gospels provide multiple, independent attestation of these appearances. Skeptics like James the brother of Jesus did not believe in Jesus during Jesus lifetime. and Paul the apostle persecuted Christians until Jesus appeared to him. James became a Bishop of Jerusalem, and Paul became a leader in proclaiming the gospel to the Jews and Gentiles. 4. The origin of belief in disciples: The appearance traditions in the gospels provide multiple, independent attestation of these appearances. Their leader was dead. And Jews had no belief in a dying, much less rising, Messiah. The Messiah was supposed to throw off Israel’s enemies (= Rome) and re-establish a Davidic reign—not suffer the ignominious death of criminal. Despite all this, the original disciples believed in and were willing to go to their deaths for the fact of Jesus’ resurrection. Luke Johnson, a New Testament scholar from Emory University, muses, “some sort of powerful, transformative experience is required to generate the sort of movement earliest Christianity was . . . .” N. T. Wright, an eminent British scholar, concludes, “that is why, as a historian, I cannot explain the rise of early Christianity unless Jesus rose again, leaving an empty tomb behind him.” Gert Ludemann, the leading German critic of the resurrection, and atheist himself admits, “It may be taken as historically certain that Peter and the disciples had experiences after Jesus’ death in which Jesus appeared to them as the risen Christ.” Prophecy Jesus fulfilled 351 Prophecies in the OT From his birth to his life, death,resurrection. http://www.accordingtothescriptures.org... Sources [1]http://www.oxforddictionaries.com... [2] http://www.reasonablefaith.org... [3]http://www.reasons.org... [4] http://plato.stanford.edu...	PRO	867
867	S6de6bca4-Ad0b65ff9	Which is more moral? Man or YOUR god of the bible or torah? Take a morality test to find out its man	"Seasoned beatings. Ohhh whoopps, sorry I meant to say greetings. Yeah that""s it. And how are you drooling today? Oh whooopppsssw sorry. Jeez I don""t know how I can possibly keep making these deliberate miss=steaks. Its all sarcasm. So let""s see what you got and hopefully its intelligent and not yet another typical yeast infection as usual from the typical person who pretends that he/ she is a christian because in reality there is no such a thing. ""An individual may possess objective morals through his or her religion, while society, which will always be home to people who do not share that religion, cannot hold objective moral truths."" Wow. What a supermassive hypocritical contradiction. So then that means that in no possible way can you follow YOUR god because according to YOUR god in YOUR bible that""s exactly what society MUST do or its death. Oh and btw, I""m not going to follow your rules by any means. You will follow mine. The debate was quite clear in its understanding. 1)Penalties for sins outlined by the bible ""a.The context of the verse nullifies the question: The verse in Leviticus which condemns blasphemy is from the Old Testament of the Bible. The Old Testament outlines the covenant that the Christian God held with humanity before the resurrection."" 100% false. Show me anywhere in YOUR bible in which YOUR god gives permission to change HIS laws. Screw christ. I didn""t mention christ. You did. He was a false prophet who broke YOUR god""s laws (such as working on the sabbath which required the death penalty which was proved in RD1 in which NOBODY can escape) and lied about him (more about that one later). And"" Pay attention closely: *Proverbs 30:5 ""Every word of God is pure: he is a shield unto them that put their trust in him."" *Isaiah 40:8 ""The grass withereth, the flower fadeth: but the word of our God shall stand for ever."" *2 Timothy 3:16 ""All scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness:"" *Psalm 19:7 ""The law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul: the testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple."" *Psalm 119:160 ""Thy word is true from the beginning: and every one of thy righteous judgments endureth for ever."" * James 1:17 ""Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, and cometh down from the Father of lights, with whom is no variableness, neither shadow of turning."" In other words god""s word is PERFECT. It cannot be changed by anyone or anything. Christ, being the lowly drab that he supposedly was in which like god who in which nobody can even prove has ever existed could---not---change---god""s---laws---because---god""s---word---is---PERFECT---and---cannot---be---changed not for any reason, not ever. Got it? Also what YOU are saying is that YOUR god changed from being this absolute bastard and s.o.b. Who killed for absolutely no reason at all 2,821,364 in his bible which included children, babies still suckling on their mothers nipples, pregnant women which would obviously be abortions in which you christians are so against but that would be a super massive hypocritical contradiction, this supposed god loved his genocides, raped women, freely admitting to being evil, having anger, wrath, vengeance, rage, fury, jealousy etc etc etc Oh jealousy. From a supreme deity? Jealousy is nothing more than anger as disguised fear. And then this god of YOUR neatly passed down those emotions to man so in turn man could learn to hate with at least 1 billion dead all in the supposed ""good"" name of YOUR god in which you cannot even prove exists. Great going god. Great going you for believing in this atrocity. Keep up the good work. And SHEBANG with a POOF from being totally evil and hateful in the OT, this god of YOURS suddenly changed to being kind, caring, considerate, loving in YOUR bible in the NT? WRONG!!!!!!!The NT is far worse than the OT. You""ve got the conception of hell, crucifixions, that suffering is somehow a ""good"" thing (oh please try teaching that to a child as daddy is bashing their faces in while sticking his you know what inside of them for 15 years), John 5: 16-18 ""16 And therefore did the Jews persecute Jesus, and sought to slay him, because he had done these things on the sabbath day. 17 But Jesus answered them, My Father worketh hitherto, and I work. 18 Therefore the Jews sought the more to kill him, because he not only had broken the sabbath, but said also that God was his Father, making himself equal with God."" I get it indeed. YOUR christ is 17 stating that YOUR god is going to work on the sabbath. THERE IS NO POSSIBLE WAY THAT YOUR GOD WOULD ---EVER--- WORK ON THE SABBATH. Not for any reason. Not ever. So YOUR jesus lied about his god. Either that or that verse is a misprint in which YOUR bible is supposed to be perfect thus showing to be YOUR christ to be imperfect also in lying. And then even worse is verse 18. Who in the f--k is this christ figure to place himself as an equal with god? Did his ""father"" ever grant that? No he did not. Wow what a stench of an ego in which YOUR bible is entirely about... the superior ego god complex and nothing but. Oh and oh yeah because of glaring errors like these + a good thousand or more supermassive hypocritical contradictions and inconsistencies in YOUR bible which proves it to be unreadable, there""s a 0% chance that YOUR god would EVER choose text as a form of communication, the worst form of communication possible. Great family value statements ""abandon your families, give away ALL your possessions, follow me:"" Sorry. You are NOT a christian in any way possible, and neither is anyone else except for maybe 1,000 on this planet who are completely insane. Give up your family in which you have not done and only someone completely insane would make that demand. Great morals - right? Matthew 10: 35-37 ""For I am come to set a man at variance against his father, and the daughter against her mother, and the daughter in law against her mother in law. 36 And a man's foes shall be they of his own household. 37 He that loveth father or mother more than me is not worthy of me: and he that loveth son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me."" Luke 12 51-53 ""Suppose ye that I am come to give peace on earth? I tell you, Nay; but rather division: 52 For from henceforth there shall be five in one house divided, three against two, and two against three. 53 The father shall be divided against the son, and the son against the father; the mother against the daughter, and the daughter against the mother; the mother in law against her daughter in law, and the daughter in law against her mother in law."" Matthew 19: 28-29 ""28 And Jesus said unto them, Verily I say unto you, That ye which have followed me, in the regeneration when the Son of man shall sit in the throne of his glory, ye also shall sit upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. 29 And every one that hath forsaken houses, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for my name's sake, shall receive an hundredfold, and shall inherit everlasting life."" ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Give up ALL OF YOUR POSSESSIONS in which you have not done and only someone completely insane would make that demand. Again great morals. Wow. Luke 14:33 ""So likewise, whosoever he be of you that forsaketh not all that he hath, he cannot be my disciple."" Luke 18:22 ""Now when Jesus heard these things, he said unto him, Yet lackest thou one thing: sell all that thou hast, and distribute unto the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come, follow me."" Matthew 19: 28-29 (yeah its worth repeating)""28 And Jesus said unto them, Verily I say unto you, That ye which have followed me, in the regeneration when the Son of man shall sit in the throne of his glory, ye also shall sit upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. 29 And every one that hath forsaken houses, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for my name's sake, shall receive an hundredfold, and shall inherit everlasting life."" Matthew 19:21 ""21 Jesus said unto him, If thou wilt be perfect, go and sell that thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come and follow me."" Matthew 13: 22 ""22 He also that received seed among the thorns is he that heareth the word; and the care of this world, and the deceitfulness of riches, choke the word, and he becometh unfruitful."" b.Now I don""t care what YOUR NT says. Its false because your christ is false. Thus your religion is false. I care about what YOU think because YOUR bible did state death to homosexuals by YOUR god as well as cursing at your parents, blaspheme, working on the sabbath etc etc etc. What do YOU think? Not what does YOUR bible think! You by no means follow your bible and its rules. C.Wow. Any belief by christianity is that if one does not believe in chirst, its an automatic trip to hell no matter what. More power for me and the billions of others to not believe. More power for your toxic mind to believe without a single shred of evidence. D. I""m not even going to bother. Its simple. Man, by far, is more moral than YOUR immoral god. Man doesn""t as a whole kill for no reason. god does. 2)On the conclusion of Moral Bankruptcy ""a.I am a Christian,"" WRONG! ""and I have answered no to every single question, based not on my own morals, but morals which I take from Christianity."" Oh OK - right. Sure. Anything you say. Here""s the thing about you"" you think that YOUR NT is all fun and games and is all squeaky clean and filled with wholesome goodness. Well as proven above, its not. And as will be proven in the next RD its not even moreso as I'm out of space, but there's a new survey for the NT. It aint pretty."	PRO	868
868	Sde24f30f-A25e90247	Resolved: Texas would best serve its interest by seceding from the Union	C1: Civil War 1) The US will not let Texas leave peacefully; global history proves that secession results in violence. Look to the violence as India fought for independence from Britain, Algeria from France. Precedent in the U.S. establishes that the federal government will use force to preserve the Union- President Jackson declared the right to do so and the Civil War set the standard for how secession is to be handled. In response to secession petitions, the Obama White house clearly says secession is not an option and references the precedent of the Civil War [1]. 2) Texas would lose a Civil War. Any military capability of Texas exists within a military complex controlled by the federal government- this includes the chain of command, contracts for manufacturing of military equipment, communications infrastructure. Foreign allies of the U.S. would side with the federal government- the fed is the reliable ally and the one most likely to win. Texas secession would be Texas vs. the world. 3) Even if Texas won the Civil War, the massive casualties and economic damage would vastly outweigh any benefits of independence. 4) Civil War would cripple Texas’ economy. The two largest sectors of the Texas economy are oil and defense contracting [2]. Withdrawal of federal funding will cripple defense contracting. Companies like AECOM and Lockheed Martin have long ties to the federal government and will pull out of Texas. Oil revenue will be massively disrupted as companies rely on oil infrastructure spread throughout the Gulf for refining and processing. 80% of U.S. refineries are outside of Texas [3] and 2/3 of U.S. oil reserves are outside of Texas [2]- oil companies will side with the U.S. C2: Hegemony 1) Texas secession would be a global signal that the U.S. doesn’t have its house in order, causing irreparable damage to perception of U.S. power. 2) Every economic strength that Pro lists for Texas is an economic asset lost by the U.S. The loss of Texas would be a devastating economic blow to the U.S., resulting in loss of economic primacy. 3) Civil War would be a massive economic and military drag on the U.S. and would cripple our ability to project power. U.S. Civil War would parallel the dissolution of the USSR and herald the permanent destruction of U.S. Hegemony. 4) U.S. Hegemony is key to global stability- we keep conflicts in check around the globe: e.g. conflict between N. and S. Korea and balancing Iran at the Strait of Hormuz. Global instability makes the world a more dangerous place for everyone, including Texas. 5) Heg is also key to fighting terrorism. The U.S. has crippled Al-Qaeda, killed Bin Laden, and pushed the Taliban out of Afghanistan [4]. In a multipolar world, Pakistan would not have allowed the extensive infringement of the sanctity of borders that the U.S. exercises with drone raids and the Bin Laden mission- US clout was key. The Mexican border makes Texas especially vulnerable to terrorist attacks. C3: Economy 1) Cross apply that Civil War cripples Texas economy. 2) Secession would lead to a U.S. trade war as the U.S. implements protectionist policies. The heavy overlap of Texas economic sectors with the U.S. coupled with U.S. backlash would lead to disruptive trade policy. Texas also would be ineligible for “Buy American” infrastructure policies. Companies like ExxonMobil with critical economic interests in both the U.S. and Texas would be swayed by U.S. policies to prefer the U.S. 3) Federal dollars are key to Texas economy- NASA creates 46k jobs in Texas [5] and defense spending is the second largest economic sector in Texas [2]. Federal stimulus money was crucial to solving Texas’ budget crisis in 2010, showing that current fiscal policy relies on the federal government [6]. Texas Gov. Perry even admits the FEMA is critical to his state and Texas is especially prone to wildfire emergencies [7]. 4) Even if Texas could offset federal funding with domestic funds, secession would massively disrupt these sectors. Texas would need time to write policies to fund military bases, reqrite contracts with private companies like Haliburton, replace federal education loans, and replace FEMA. In the interim, individuals who depend on this funding would likely follow the U.S. federal dollars and leave Texas- resulting in a brain drain on the labor force. 5) If Pro is right an U.S. is on the road to economic collapse, then secession is pointless because U.S. failure will drag Texas down with it. Experts say if the U.S. economy collapses the global market will collapse with it [8]. The financial crisis of 2008 proves that the global market follows the behavior of the U.S. [9] Texas secession is then a moot point. Pro’s Case: Economy: 1) Cross apply all my economy arguments that shows how secession hurts both U.S. and the Texas economy. 2) Secession precludes any possibility of the U.S. solving its debt crisis- since Texas is a massive economic asset, secession makes U.S. economic failure inevitable. Its try or die- either Texas stays and fights for the success of the union or Texas secedes and guarantees U.S. and global economic failure. 3) Private sector models prove that carrying debt is good practice, and the U.S. debt to income ratio compares favorably to many major companies. Debt is used to invest in development that leads to future profits. This is what major companies like IBM do- take on debt now to invest in future opportunities. The U.S. carries debt to fund infrastructure projects, maintain Hegemony, and protect human capital. Debt is not a cause for concern. Culture: 1) The impacts of economy and security are infinitely more important than cultural uniformity. 2) This whole argument is a joke. Secession won’t mean Democrats cease to exist in Texas, Texas is massively heterogeneous due to proximity with Mexico and a large Hispanic population, Texas conservative culture is shared by many “red states,” etc. Ability to Secede: 1) Cross-apply all my Civil War and Heg arguments. Any existing military infrastructure will be absorbed by the U.S. 2) These arguments link into my Hegemony arguments- they just prove how key Texas is to the survival of the Union. 3) The population/economy of scale argument is without warrant. Pro points out the three countries with the largest populations also are the strongest global economies and seems to think this shows why large populations are bad. 4) The economy of scale argument has no impact and no way to evaluate. The large U.S. population preserves Hegemony, which vastly outweighs. Underview: Security comes first in evaluating the best interest of Texas. War and global instability puts the lives of Texans at risk, outweighing any economic risks. Additionally, wars hurt the economy by disrupting trade, draining resources, and causing uncertainty. Texas may be a great state, but the Union is greater than the sum of its parts. A Texas secession would lock both the U.S. and Texas in a downward spiral resulting the destruction of both. The loss of the security found in the united front of 50 states vastly outweighs any other considerations. [1] https://petitions.whitehouse.gov... [2] http://en.wikipedia.org... [3] http://en.wikipedia.org... [4] http://www.theatlantic.com... [5] http://www.nasa.gov... [6] http://money.cnn.com... [7] http://blog.chron.com... [8] http://www.businessinsider.com... [9] http://en.wikipedia.org... [10] http://usatoday30.usatoday.com...	CON	869
869	S3a358a7-A760b3eb0	Mankind is slowly working its way toward Utopia	During most of my waking hours, I am a very content person. I have a nice home--nothing fancy--but adequate heat, light and amenities. I have a woman who's put up with me for 23 years. I have a bit of debt, but nothing that's going to break my financial back. In other words, I'm already very close to having a one-man utopia. But I envision something larger. I see everyone walking around with the world's collective knowledge at their fingertips, that is, it's as close as the internet on the smartphone in their pocket. I see three-dee printers creating amazing products that never could have been assembled any other way. I see wealthy entrepreneurs creating some mind-blowing creations that promise to make life so much better for us, and ALL OF THESE THINGS are being done with only that 10 or 20% of their brains functioning, as you mentioned. So, Utopia, as I see it, is when no one is starving, homeless, or suffering unnecessarily. It's when everyone is living comfortably, whether they are employed or not. It will occur when we learn to control all the things that can be controlled. This is probably doable with 50% of our current brain capacity! One crucial factor in getting us to the objective, is teaching kids how to avoid making costly mistakes, like dropping out of school if they're not going to pursue further education on their own, having kids out of wedlock, having kids before they're ready to support them, and blowing their money on hair dye, piercings, tattoos, and other non-essentials. We need to redefine morality in a manner that is more in keeping with human nature, not as these dusty old contradictory Testaments recommend. If we do learn how to use 40% more of our brain, then yippee hurray... we can improve further faster, but if people can make ideal lives for themselves now on an individual basis, there's no reason why they couldn't group together and form a utopic society. Your notion that we are a virus is a terribly depressive bit of nonsense that demands refutation. If you REALLY thought that way and had the best interests of the planet in mind, then you would go around preaching to people the need to kill themselves, and when the second to last person on the planet offed themselves, you would follow suit. That is the opposite, most dystopian scenario I can think of. “Man is too dumb to live in harmony with the world and should therefore destroy himself.” That statement is anathema to me. You doubted the wisdom of creating A.I. as well… the robots might take over the world. I suppose some evil scientist could program mass destruction into the droids, or a military application goes awry, or something, but, as FDR would say, “The only thing we have to fear, is fear itself.”	PRO	870
870	Seb991d36-A48a3953e	National testing will allow the state to locate and fund under-performing schools, ensuring all school children are given a good education	National testing will not tell the state much at all about school performance, or at least nothing more than they already knew. They are so many different things that affect test results that to judge a school's performance based only on national tests is wrong. Furthermore, to compare schools in poor areas with schools in rich areas is not fair on the former, which are thereafter deemed so-called 'underperforming schools'. As Connecticut Commissioner Betty Stenberg describes, 'We won't learn anything new about our schools by giving these extra tests'1. As if to prove the point, in California, 'as public school spending has declined…student achievement test scores have gone up’2. This demonstrates that there is no clear link between the amount of government funding and the quality of schools. 1http://www.google.co.uk/url?sa=t&source=web&cd=5&ved=0CDgQFjAE&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.nctq.org%2Fnctq%2Fresearch%2F1180459263221.pdf&rct=j&q=claudia%20wallis%20no%20child%20left%20behind&ei=rvYWTqCvM8nEswbH4ZiYDw&usg=AFQjCNFL18GBmPU_8VtcUFpkkM_pl6XIfg&cad=r 2Wallis, C., & Steptoe, S. (2007, May 24). How to fix No Child Left Behind. Retrieved July 8, 2011, from Time improve this  	CON	871
871	Sc1b61f69-Ad6acf409	Mixed-sex dormitories should be the only dormitory type permitted at higher education institutes	"First of all I never directly said that ""males and females are incapable of sharing the same room without getting sexually involved"". My opponent does admit however that it's a ""great way to meet potential mates of the opposite or same sex"". As there are always people who abuse any system it would be unrealistic to assume it would never go any further than that. As for parents with ""traditional"" values, while they can seek private housing, this reduces their child's chances of socialising with his/her friends. It is not sexist for them to not want there child sleeping in the same premises as the opposite gender if it is to avoid a ""morally compromising situation"". They could have a son or daughter or even both, this does not mean they value either one more then the other. When my opponent points out ""Facebook and Microsoft were created by roommates/dormitory mates"" they miss out that it was both times by two males. The rate of female programmers are declining, and yet technology is becoming an increasing part of our lives. It seems that males and females are just likely to get interested in different things. This may be why friend groups are often dominated by one gender. Basically what I'm saying is that people get to know their room mates best if there are fewer of them, and they are more likely to become good friends and/or work partners if they are of the same gender. My opponent also says ""I am sure that the males and female can come to an agreement on when and if they they want to share the same bathroom"". Why can't this also apply to sleeping arrangements? Why can't there be three dormitories so that people can chose if they want the one with only their gender or both genders.(This would also allow people who don't identify as being male or females with an easy option.) As there would be people who felt more comfortable with the former their is no reason why they should have to ""live in a private residence of campus"" as my opponent says they can in the comments. In the next paragraph my opponent seems to have done what they have accused me of doing, avoided the argument. Therefore there doesn't seem much to argue on this point. My opponent says ""While my opponent does stress they are not sexist, this does not detract from the line of argument that women are made to look weaker than men. This is not true."" If my opponent means physically, this is incorrect. Sports competitions have different sections for male and female participants for a reason. It seems established fact that most men are physically stronger than most women. (There are, of course, exceptions, but this is the general case.) Going back to round 2, my opponent claims that due to mixed sex dormitories ""people you are in contact with is increased by 100 % if we consider a 1:1 ratio of women and men in the world"". This is entirely false. The first reason being that being in a dormitory with someone does not mean you necessarily make you come into contact with them when in a large dormitory. The next reason is that many, if not most, are already in regular contact with he opposite sex (whether or no sharing a dormitory). Finally I would like to point out that pro must give a reason why one sex dormitories should be banned. If not their is no reason why private schools should not be allowed to do as they please. Thank you to my opponent and voters for reading my argument. References: http://www.techrepublic.com..."	CON	872
872	Sc1b61f69-Ad4894ad2	Mixed-sex dormitories should be the only dormitory type permitted at higher education institutes	I accept.	CON	873
873	Sc1b61f69-A4cea8279	Mixed-sex dormitories should be the only dormitory type permitted at higher education institutes	"My opponent states that "" any system will get abused but that is not a good reason to dismiss something that is beneficial for society, even if a few people are doing something wrong"". The problem being that in this case it is not a ""few people"" but a lot of people abusing the system. My opponent also states that ""people drive their cars to fast as well, but no one is asking to ban cars"". Speeding tickets exist to stop this. there are no speeding tickets for promiscuity. My opponent then goes on to say that ""mixed-sex housing should be the only type allowed as it increases socializing"". My opponent has not given any proof of this, and it is quite likely not true. This becomes obvious when you increase the numbers dramatically. If you have a party with 1,000 people, and one with 10,000, in which one will any one person do the most socialising? It would be the same, because no single person would try to meet that many people in one night. Similarly, many people won't want to many people in their dormitory. If there's less people, everyone can get to know everyone else and feel comfortable. My opponent says I need to ""elaborate what a compromising situation is as even meeting someone in the philosophy section of the library could be considered compromising"". Guns are considered dangerous to take onto planes, but string could be considered dangerous as it could be used to choke someone. My opponent asks ""Should we stop students studying philosophy next?"" I ask should we ban children taking yoyo's on aeroplanes as they contain string (which could be considered dangerous). My opponent also seems to claim that unisex dormitories are the reason why men and woman form separate social groups. This argument can easily be shattered by the fact that teenagers do this to before they even leave their parents. My opponent also says "" men and women should be able to work together to advance the society"", the problem to this argument being that men and women often do work together. In his next line my opponent says ""living together in the same housing this will force people to make theses connections "". Force is the word I don't like here. People should have the right to chose who they are connected with, and this should not be controlled by their room mates, which it definitely isn't. People make friends outside their dorm all the time. My opponent then by extension compares uni-sex dormitories with sexism. I think I already tried to state why this is not the case, but I might as well say it again. Uni-sex dormitories do not discriminate against either sex. They are merely their because the founders thought that men and women should affiliate at a different time. If I have showed the voters one thing, I hope it is that their are good points for uni-sex dormitories, even if you still think their are also good points for mixed-sex dormitories. This being said having both available offers students and parents the choice of what is in their opinion the better option, which is why you should vote con. Thank you to my opponent for this debate and voters for reading it. http://www.hookingupsmart.com..."	CON	874
874	S5d50491e-A97311a27	The US Federal Goveronment should abolish 99%of its functions	"Again my opponent hasn’t attempted to answer my objections to his national debt and constitution arguments. Since it’s the end of the debate, they are dropped. His entire argument has focused on an attack of my counterplan. Since Pro is the one affirming the topic, the burden of proof is on him and since he has failed to answer my objections, he has failed to uphold his burden of proof. Human Nature Again, my opponent has dropped a majority of my rebuttal. He dropped his argument about power checks and still has failed to respond to my other objections. He now is only dealing with the decision making process of an anarchist society. The analogy doesn’t make much practical sense. Why would anyone agree to live in a commune that permits stealing? It would make personal property meaningless and therefore very unsatisfying to live with. He also assumes decisions need to be resolved by warfare. This maybe the case under a state, but anarchism values decisions of the people. If no resolution can be reached, then the opposition is welcome to form a commune of their own. There is no overarching authority or laws in an anarchist society, just what is decided by its commune. If for some odd reason a group of people absolutely must have theft as commonplace, then who are we to exert authority over them if they aren’t hurting anybody who hasn’t consented? When their group fails and they understand the rationale for respect of personal property, then they will be welcomed back into the original commune or change their own. Contrasted to a republican government, if a minority is unhappy with a law, they must suffer. Being under the dictation of no man and deciding things in a naturally directly democratic way or being under the dictation of the majority and politicians, the former sounds much better. Defense My opponent totally ignores anarchist concepts of organization such as platformism. The RIAU, organized yet anarchistic never did something as stupid like attacking in two different ways without planning. And again for some reason he brings up the Semai tribe in regards to this point. The one and only reason I brought up the Semai tribe was to show human nature isn't inherently violent or oppressive. For some reason my opponent thinks this has something military defense. Establishing Power Pro’s solution to the government attempting to take power is to have people educated in the role of government, however people can still form their own opinions and interpretations about what it means to have a “more perfect union”. He has also ignored my point about the government officials having a vested interest in allowing themselves more power. There is also the chance that the government might complicate the voting and election process to make it easier to obtain power. He says an anarchist society would have the same problem, since what’s there to stop someone from creating a government under anarchism? This would be incredibly difficult to do because the mass of society would still be anarchistic. There simply wouldn’t be the huge hierarchical bureaucratic structure in existence for someone to easily create a government. They would be dissociating from the whole of society itself making it practically impossible. Furthermore, there is a huge difference here because wanting small government power and wanted large government power both assume the legitimacy of government. They both accept that core fundamental principle. But an anarchist society would reject that fundamental principle. Next he says my liberty argument is hypocritical because the government in limiting its features wouldn’t infringe on liberties. This is a straw man of my argument. I am stating that the very fact the government is hierarchical entails it lacks the same amount of liberty that would be present in an anarchist society. A hierarchy necessarily has those on the top and those who are commanded. Pro is also advocating for governmental oversight in regards to laws in the first place. Capitalism Pro has failed to answer my objection that this portion of the debate fundamentally doesn’t matter because I still allowed for the possibility of capitalism. Still my opponent shows a complete misunderstanding of my rebuttal, communism, capitalism, and revolutionary Spain. My rebuttal wasn’t as Pro states “economic growth and increased quality of living is a bad thing because the Nazis had it”. I never once claimed this, my argument was that increased quality of living isn’t a good reason for accepting capitalism. Not the strawman that Pro attacked. Hitler’s policy were fascist in nature and those fascist policies helped improve lives. He made people do the work which the government dictated or live in a forced labor camp [1]. Along with removing the employment of Jews and women [2]. I also don’t see how a slave-master relationship has anything remotely to do with capitalism, as Pro claims. Increased living standards don’t entail that we ought to accept the system in question. Next he claims capitalism doesn’t deprive people of liberty. However, he ignores the fact that under capitalism the workers don’t have control over their workplaces. It is the bosses that have a dictatorship over them. He ignores that under capitalism you can live according to how much money you have. How much money you make is determined by how much a private business owner sees you are worth. You have a choice between selling yourself to a boss and doing what he tells you to do or starving. Is that really liberty? Or is a system where you have freedom in what happens in your workplace and where you are paid according to how much you have worked (if we choose to have a wage system) actual liberty? Pro then makes a variety of totally unsourced claims about the Spanish civil war. He claims Spain wasn’t a good place to live despite my eyewitness testimony saying otherwise. He also asserts it was a dictatorship and that workers didn’t actually control the means of production…. What? This couldn’t be further from the truth. What about all of the evidence I provided just last round directly contradicting Pro’s claim here? ""Industry is in the hands of the workers and all the production centres conspicuously fly the red and black flagsas well as inscriptions announcing that they have really become collectives. The revolution seems to be universal.” [3] …... ""In Spain, during almost three years, despite a civil war that took a million lives, despite the opposition of the political parties . . . this idea of libertarian communism was put into effect. Very quickly more than 60% of the land was very quickly collectively cultivated by the peasants themselves, without landlords, without bosses, and without instituting capitalist competition to spur production. In almost all the industries, factories, mills, workshops, transportation services, public services, and utilities, the rank and file workers, their revolutionary committees, and their syndicates reorganised and administered production, distribution, and public services without capitalists, high-salaried managers, or the authority of the state."" [ibid] My opponent's claims that the worker’s never controlled the workplace are outright false, he provides no citation for what he claims and then misconstrues the position of communism. For one, Catalonia wasn’t totally communistic nor have I set up a dichotomy between capitalism and communism. I clearly stated there were other alternatives such as mutualism and collectivism. So even if my opponent's misconstructions of communism are correct, it still doesn’t matter. Second, there wasn’t any totalitarian communist state in place. A “communist state” is an oxymoron and the revolutionaries in Spain where anarchists and therefore wouldn’t have supported state control over the means of production. Positions which advocate for communism come in many different shapes and sizes. It is wrong to point to the Marxist-Leninist concept of the dictatorship of the proletariat and claim that is communism and that everything and anything communistic falls under that banner. As Pro has done. He ignores the position many of the revolutionaries advocated for called for either direct communism sans any sort of dictatorship or transition to it using other anarcho-socialist philosophies such as collectivism or mutualism. I’m not exactly sure why my opponent includes the time period up to the 1960s, as the Catalonia was lost to Franco and his fascist army in 1939 [4]. He asserts that in the 60s capitalism improved living standards. Again, this is an assertion without citation nor gives any comparison to revolutionary Spain. It doesn’t appear to have anything to do with capitalism because the socialist revolution was long gone by then. Even if we are to assume this was true, it doesn’t prove anything. Any system of economics is going to be rough on the living standards in the midst of a civil war. Pro then goes to state nowhere in history has anarchism ever been practiced. This downright ignores every single piece of evidence of self-management in the spanish revolution which I provided. Along with ignoring all of the other times it’s happened before. Such as in the Shinmin Province [5] and the Free Territories of Ukraine [6]. Anyway, I could literally concede everything Pro said about capitalism and this still wouldn’t change a thing, because the origin of this rabbit hole included an exception for capitalism. Pro has dropped both of his positive arguments (leaving him with an unfulfilled BOP) and formed his rebuttals based on strawmen. Sources [1 ] http://www.historylearningsite.co.uk... [2] http://www.bbc.co.uk.... [3] http://www.infoshop.org... [4] https://en.wikipedia.org... [5] http://libcom.org... [6] https://anarchyinaction.org..."	CON	875
875	Saf28e840-A45382380	The U.S. ought to guarantee Universal Healthcare to its citizenry	"My rebuttal of the Con""s Case: Con""s Observations: The Con begins by asserting that I must offer a means of repairing the flaws of the current system. This would seem to imply that, conversely, the Con must show that UHC fails to address these flaws, which the Con does not do. The Con merely talks about the viability of UHC""s implementation, but when discussing things ""on principle,"" feasibility""s importance is reduced. In other words, what we should do is more important than what we can do. But in addition to this, there are two other reasons to reject the notion that I must offer a means of repairing the current problems. Firstly, the terms ""on principle"" and ""ought"" negate the need for solvency. According to Merriam Webster, ""ought,"" in particular, connotes morality. Therefore, when discussing what we ought to do regarding UHC, we are really asking ""is it morally right for the U.S. to guarantee UHC to its citizenry."" Secondly, even if you don""t buy that solvency is unimportant, UHC does address the flaws of the status quo, primarily by eliminating uninsurance. By so doing, the myriad harms of uninsurance are alleviated, ""solved."" As Prof. Dale Murray notes, ""Major advantages from universal""coverage of the population accrue to virtually everyone. In regard to efficiency, these include more accessible preventive care, lower inappropriate use of emergency rooms""freedom from financial and care-giving burdens placed on others by the uninsured and lower absenteeism and more reliable productivity from a workforce that can access basic health services."" All of these are solutions to the problems of the status quo are discussed within my first statement. We both agree that we""re talking about UHC in general, not any particular system. Her final observation, regarding the phrase ""on principle,"" was to note that the term was as yet undefined. However, instead of defining the phrase, she offers an individual principle that the U.S. should uphold. But, just as it would be incorrect to define the term ""in general"" by naming a specific generality, is incorrect to define the term ""on principle"" by naming a specific principle. In fact, I would characterize ""on principle"" as meaning ""as a matter of morality in general."" But even if you don""t buy this, I still meet the burden as stated by the Con. One: Time (1) Rowley categorically fails to justify why UHC will be detrimental to the economy. He talks about the need to maintain hegemony and to avoid lower credit ratings, but does not draw any direct connection to UHC. In fact, the only two times he mentions UHC are to say that ""UHC will weaken the economy"" and that UHC would be hard to pass. Nowhere does he explain UHC""s direct impact on the economy. I would go so far as to say that all of the evidence offered by my opponent about the precarious nature of our economy fails to show why UHC would add to the problem. Specifically, the Con fails to warrant why UHC would lead to any downgrading in our rating""UHC will not necessarily add to the deficit. This is because there are many different types of UHC, and the program could be funded in a variety of ways, including compelling private insurers to foot some of the bill. But, since we""re not debating any particular form of UHC, it is unfair to say that UHC will invariably cause added debt or fiscal expenditure. (2) Even if you accept the validity of the Rowley evidence, it can be turned to show how the cost-benefit calculus bolsters the Pro. The Rowley evidence relies on a 1-in-3 chance that the U.S. would have its credit downgraded. That""s about 33% odds that UHC would damage the economy. Given the vast potential for improvement I cited earlier (greater longevity, better quality of life, reduced bankruptcy, etc.), these odds are worth it. So, when my opponent asserts that the U.S. should do what is best for its people, the cost-benefit-analysis here clearly favors the Pro argument; namely, because if we don""t implement UHC, the harms of the status quo will perpetuate, but if we do implement UHC, there is a massive potential (and a high""67%""likelihood) for reward. (3) I can agree that the U.S. economy is presently not ideal. However, UHC would actually be a boon to the U.S. economy, not a burden as the Con tries to (and unsuccessfully) argue. My Sub-point B offers important economic analysis to back my claim (Thorpe and Murray.) But additionally, I can show how failure to guarantee UHC is detrimental to the economy. Kao-ping and Casoy note, ""A lack of universal care leads to unnecessary use of the ER: [Use of the ER for common illness skyrockets when people are uninsured; namely, because the uninsured cannot afford to see a regular doctor.] The ER is an expensive place to receive care. An average visit to an emergency room costs $383.11 whereas the average physician""s office visit costs $60.12. It is estimated that 10.7% of ER visits in 2000 were for non-emergencies, costing the system billions of dollars. Additionally, ""Job lock"" ensues: Job lock refers to the idea that people stay with their jobs when they would rather work elsewhere because their current job offers health insurance. For example, many individuals opt to stay with their job instead of starting their own business""the number of people who would be self-employed if there were universal health care is close to 3.8 million. This loss of entrepreneurship is a real economic cost in a society that is relying on start-ups to offset the loss of jobs that are moving offshore."" This evidence supports the notion that UHC would not only be beneficial to the economy, but that a lack of UHC actually harms the economy. Therefore, in hard economic times, the policy of UHC makes sense. Two: Empirics (1) According to the World Health Organization, some 27 of the world""s best healthcare systems (taking into account waits, quality of care, accessibility of services, etc.) are nations with UHC. It seems, consequently, that the empirics actually support UHC. (2) Con only offers a handful of specific examples, which fails to give a broad picture about UHC in general. Canada, specifically, is having trouble with its system not because UHC, but because the Canadian legislature would take money from the program to spend elsewhere, leaving the system bankrupt. (3)The famous will still get special treatment, regardless. In the U.S. they can pay for more exclusive hospitals, doctors, etc. In fact, the kind of corruption/economic imbalance the Con cites would be more prevalent in a non-UHC system. Prof. David Stuckler, et al, note ""An over-reliance on partial""care appears to disproportionately benefit richer groups, reducing both efficacy and access to coverage."" The observe that this imbalance results from the rich being able to afford better care, whilst those with fewer resources get progressively inadequate and sub-standard care as you go down the income bracket. They go on to state, ""[A lack of UHC] also creates groups with strong vested interests in the status quo that can block further progress. Public financing is more equitable""and reflects the shared value of providing care based on need rather than ability to pay."" (4) Finally, even if there were a delay, it would still be better than receiving no care or sub-standard care, which is often the case when individuals are permitted to go without insurance. Furthermore, delays can be too long in the U.S. system too. As Kao-ping and Casoy conclude: ""(1) The uninsured are less likely to be able to fill prescriptions and more likely to pay much more of their money out-of-pocket for prescriptions. In a recent survey, one third of uninsured Americans reported that they were unable to fill a prescription drug in the last year because of the cost. (2) The uninsured are 3-4 times more likely than those with insurance to report problems getting needed medical care, even for serious conditions. In one study, more than half of the uninsured postponed needed medical care due to financial concerns, while over one third went without a physician-recommended medical test or treatment due to financial concerns. (3)The uninsured are less likely to have a regular source of health care. 40% of the uninsured do not have a regular place to go when they are sick or need medical advice, compared to less than 10% of the insured. As a result, 20% of the uninsured say their usual source of care is the emergency room. (4) The uninsured are less likely to get needed preventive care. When compared to the insured, uninsured, non-elderly adults are 50% less likely to receive preventive care such as pap smears, mammograms, etc. (5) The uninsured are more likely to be forced to delay medical services, affecting the timeline of diagnosis and thus the prognosis of the disease process""The uninsured patients were""1.5 times more likely to be diagnosed late for colorectal cancer, melanoma, breast cancer, and prostate cancer, respectively. (6) The uninsured are more likely to receive poor care for chronic diseases. Among nonelderly adult diabetics, a lack of insurance is associated with less glucose monitoring and fewer foot and eye exams, leading to an increased risk of hospitalization and disability""As a result of these myriad difficulties accessing health care, the non-partisan Institute of Medicine estimates that the uninsured have an excess annual mortality rate of 25%...which is of comparable magnitude to the number of people in this age group who die each year from diabetes, stroke, HIV, and homicide."""	PRO	876
876	S73e1fffa-A90e46976	The Benefits of Space Exploration outweigh its disadvantages	Thanks for accepting my debate! I wish you luck in advance. I will now begin my argument. Argument- 1) As we know, the world's resources are finite. Mining on earth is also dangerous to the environment, as it can cause deforestation, water pollution, and erosion. [1] However, why only mine on earth, when there better opportunities in space? There are millions upon millions of asteroids in our system, and mining asteroids does not destroy habitats. [1][3] It is proven that asteroids are rich with hydrocarbons, water, and even precious metals. [1] Scientists speculate that an asteroid with a 1 mile diameter contains over $20 trillion worth of elements. [1] NASA is projected to launch a mission to capture a near-earth asteroid in 2021, and it will only cost the $1 billion. [1][2] However, this is not an issue, as privately owned companies exploring asteroid mining are backed by several billionaires.[1] Also, the US government's federal budget is approximately $3.5 trillion dollars, making the expense of this program only 0.028% of the federal budget.[4] Furthermore, the expense would be minute compared to it's profit. Scientists speculate that even asteroids as small as 100 feet would reap $50 billion dollars in profit. [1] 2) Space exploration has provided many heath benefits. The International Space Station (ISS) was launched in 1998. [5] The ISS is one way space exploration provides health benefits. The space station serves as a laboratory in space. Why do we need to perform research in space, can't we just do it on Earth? Well, a lot of these experiments cannot be performed on Earth, as the experiments require zero gravity. Here are just a few of the health benefits that come from space exploration: Each year, more than 7 million people die from cancer. [6] ISS research has created a microgravity platform that enhances the cancer treatment process. [7] Space exploration has also paved the way for artifical limbs, which is another NASA spin off. [19] The ISS research has created a tool that will help control asthma. [8] ISS research has created a technology that can detect shingles early, therefore allowing prevention. [9] The ISS has aided in vaccine development. [10] 780 million people don't have access to clean water. [11] Technology developed for the ISS can now be used as water purification for developing countries. [12] Pacemakers are a spin off of space exploration. [13] Ear thermometers are derived from space exploration. [14] Space exploration has provided many heath related breakthroughs, spin offs, and inventions. These benefit humanity greatly. 3) Space exploration has also improved technology. One spinoff of space exploration are cordless tools. [14] As this is very general, it is a very significant invention. If we didn't have cordless devices, all electronic devices whatsoever would still have to be plugged into the wall in order to be used. Another extremely important spin offs is solar energy.[19] Solar panels have been commercialized, as you can find them on thousands of houses across America, and the world. Solar panels are extremely efficient, release no pollutants whatsoever, and reduce home electricity costs. Therefore, it is extremely benefitial. One of the most important technologies that is still used today are satellites. Yes, satellites are inventions derived from space exploration. [14] Satellites allow for phones, and most importantly: smart phones. Without satellites, smart phones would not exist, as would would have no way of texting, calling, surfing the Internet, downloading apps, music, etc. One may argue that smart phones could still exist through cloud computing software. Ahhh, but cloud computing software is also derived from NASA. [15] Cloud computing software has now boomed because of nasa. Another spin off derived from space exploration is Petroleum Remediation Product.[19] This allows consumers to safely clean petroleum pollutants from water. This is safe for the enviornment, and makes the water safe for humans. 4) Space exploration inspires kids, whether it be to be a scientist or to reach their dreams. [16][17] When I was a kid, I dreamed of being an astronaut. Even today, if you ask kids what they want to be, it'll most likely be an astronaut.[18] Conclusion: Space exploration has provided many benefits ranging from mining, health, medicine, safety, technology, inspiration, along with many others. Sources: [1]:http://theweek.com... [2]: http://www.nasa.gov... [3]:http://www.universetoday.com... [4]: http://useconomy.about.com... [5]: http://www.google.com... [6]:http://www.cdc.gov... [7]: http://www.nasa.gov... [8]: http://www.nasa.gov... [9]: http://www.nasa.gov... [10]: http://www.nasa.gov... [11]: http://water.org... [12]: http://www.nasa.gov... [13]: http://spinoff.nasa.gov... [14]: http://dsc.discovery.com... [15]: http://spinoff.nasa.gov... [16]:http://www.childmind.org...- [17]:http://www.suffolknewsherald.com... [18]: http://shareranks.com... [19]: http://spinoff.nasa.gov...	PRO	877
877	Sceba7e7b-A114d89aa	Resolved: The United States of America should create coral reefs along its coastlines(Policy debate)	"OV1: Saying ""policy debate"" does not imply FORMAL policy. We're arguing policy, that's a policy debate. There was no stipulation in R1 that this would be formal, so don't punish me for Pro's omission. OV3: Pro finally provides some of the basics of how the technology works! Happy to drop this. Inherency I'll get to similarity on Adv. 1. Pro drops that his case doesn't have global effects. This is key: only my case provides any means by which to ensure that global ecosystem restoration occurs, and Goreau explicitly supports global efforts. Even if they fail (they won't, since scientists like Goreau will direct policy "" Pro dropped this), that still gives my case a better probability of solving for a global problem than Pro's. Natural reef degradation continues unabated under Pro's plan. On the CP: Pro grants my solvency by dropping that my case enlightens politicians and allows knowledgeable scientists to direct coral reef policy. Pro's plan doesn't solve for misconceptions or for a lack of political will. My case encourages action, not just letting nature take its course. The CP can employ biorock too, so long as it's employed solely in the restoration of reefs. The CP garners both of Pro's advantages as well. It sustains protection for countries around the globe from hurricanes by ensuring that their reefs survive. It also maintains biodiversity and provides opportunities for scientists in every country to collect samples, allowing for the pursuit of novel therapeutics anywhere in the world. Pro's impacts only affect the U.S., but mine extend much further. The perm still fails. Sorry, the Policy Debate God doesn't have jurisdiction here, and the ""test"" of physical coexistence doesn't apply. Pro is just trying to get out of a straight up net benefits debate. Not only do the cases contradict one another, but there is an inherent barrier that prevents taking action after implementing Pro's plan, which makes the perm nonsensical. Plan Pro still hasn't explained why any of my requests for specification are unnecessary. I've already shown and will continue to show the implications of his vagueness, whether he thinks it's important or not. Pro is providing money to a nebulous group of people with only a rudimentary set of specifications and minimal clarity on placement. All of those missing pieces matter. Applying ""normal means"" to an abnormal case that forces actions that have never been done by any government before is absurd. This is the first round Pro has even used the words ""normal means"" and I can't make any sense of what those means look like. If I was asking for specifics that weren't necessary to establish his solvency (or lack thereof), then fine. But these are integral to Pro's case, and his repeated failures to respond to these concerns leave his case with only a risk of solvency, at best. Advantage 1 Let's look at similarity. Pro mentioned that mineral accretion reefs were extremely tough back in R2. He's right, they're much tougher than natural reefs.[19]. This might appear to feed his argument, but it's that hardness that makes the formation of these reef crests extremely unlikely, since they require a careful balance between erosion and building of the reefs.[20] Also, the organic matter in natural reefs gives rise to life, meaning that calcium carbonate is not the sole factor that Pro needs to replicate in order to get either of his advantages, since those populations stabilize reefs.[21] Pro assumes the formation of reef crests. However, these crests must be populated by specific kinds of algae to form and be maintained.[20] We don't know that the biorock corals would be populated by this algae, and if they aren't, then the biorock will never form these crests due to erosion. Pro continues to ignore the second quote altogether. Beck is clearly stating that adding new reef sites by artificial means is problematic. This is Pro's own expert speaking against Pro's case, which seeks to dramatically expand the number of locations at which reefs are placed. 20 centimeters is not enough to affect waves that are between 50 and 150 times larger.[22-24] It's up to Pro to prove that he's going to get enough growth to see any impacts within a reasonable period of time. And recognize that these 20 centimeters were only achieved by transplanting corals, which aren't a part of Pro's case.[15] His reefs will grow slower, and with far more variability due to widely varied conditions. Pro's right that I don't have control over his plan, but apparently, neither does he. He assumes that contractors will be diligent and surveil if necessary, but it's not a part of his plan (or clarifications), so he's banking on an assumption that they'd do it as a matter of course. He's only speculating as to what could limit reef depth in a beneficial manner (without ever stating what that depth is, or sourcing it). He's leaving it up to contractors to decide these depths without any guidance, on top of deciding what makes an optimal locations for growth. Grant him that uncertainty. It showcases that he only achieves a risk of solvency, which needs to be weighed against all the probable failures I've explained. As for costs, Pro seemed to care about the cost of an average hurricane, but I'm fine with dropping this impact out. Advantage 2 Pro asserts that all pharmaceutical companies need is another lead or two to produce an important health benefit. The problem is that companies have no shortage of drugs moving through their pipelines. The flood of new information brought on by recent technologies has practically paralyzed the industry, resulting in FEWER new molecular entities (NMEs) being developed.[25] Throwing more potential NMEs at the problem only compounds the problem. Every lead will require huge time investments and tremendous costs. Those costs are in the link: $802 million, per drug. And that cost creates a trade-off. Companies have to select a small number to potential drugs to pursue. In order to come to that number, they screen through a tremendous number of possibilities. That screening can be costly as well and, as Pro dropped, most organisms won't have any potential whatsoever. More importantly, each drug pursued has a massive opportunity cost, as others could be potential lifesavers; Pro hasn't provided any reasoning to believe that marine resources are more likely to produce results. Those costs matter, particularly for Pro's HIV drug. I've shown why companies would have to charge a large amount for these protective proteins, and Pro dropped the point that cheap and effective alternatives exist. His only evidence of a benefit is a minimally effective chemotherapy, which may have saved a few lives, but came at the cost of other potentially life-saving drugs. Flashy as it is, the 3.7 decillion number isn't impressive - it's actually a little high.[26] There's no reason to believe that the other 6.3-28.8*10^29 microorganisms on the planet should be ignored in favor of these when almost all of them require unknown conditions to culture and require intensive study. Solvency Pro asserts that ""contractors will know where to put them"", but I've already shown that the criteria for exclusion are too complex for anyone to fully understand. Pro drops those criteria. This is 50,000 miles of ocean, and very little of it will be the vision of perfection. At the very least, these issues will affect growth rates, which Pro's case is dependent on being rapid. He continues to try to no link my evidence on artificial reefs, but even if Pro proves that artificial reefs are exactly like natural reefs (he doesn't), that doesn't change the fact artificial reefs have NEVER been successfully grown and maintained marine life akin to natural reefs. That includes biorock. My links include actual evidence of artificial reefs depopulating natural reefs, leading to reef degradation. Biorock doesn't avoid these harms. I provided evidence that fishermen will overfish these sites.[13] Pro ignored it. Pro hasn't contradicted my point that publicized locations where fish congregate will be sought out fishing sites. Long as these strips are, they're much more defined than current fishing spots. Either Pro's biorock attracts marine life, which means he's biting this harm along with degradation, or it doesn't, in which case he gets no solvency on his Advantage 2 and reduced solvency on his Advantage 1. Pro ignores the links I've provided on lost clout and political will. When a government spends billions on ecological restoration, the problem is viewed as solved - we spent the money, we spent the will, time to move on. Whether it's because Congress deems other matters more important or because constituents don't see a long term project as worth their tax dollars, the focus is likely to be pulled away. Political will for environmental problems is particularly low, even when the cost is minimal, because its impacts are long term and thus appear more distantly important,[27] and so spending political capital on it substantially reduces that will. It masks the global reality that natural reefs are being degraded. The drops on biodiversity, however, are the most important. I gave an extensive explanation for why this particular argument deserves the most weight, particularly because any loss to biodiversity turns Pro's Contention 2, on top of harming many species within the environment. Pro doesn't say how biorock ""provide[s] substantially healthier reef ecosystems"" and my arguments prove the opposite. I'm not attacking a straw man here - I'm showing why Pro's case has a very clear, certain and substantial harm, and how my case solves for it. Pro's drops here leave his case dead in the water. 19. http://bit.ly... 20. http://1.usa.gov... 21. http://bit.ly... 22. http://bit.ly... 23. http://bit.ly... 24. http://bit.ly... 25. http://econ.st... 26. http://bit.ly... 27. http://bit.ly..."	CON	878
878	Sceba7e7b-A14e56468	Resolved: The United States of America should create coral reefs along its coastlines(Policy debate)	"OV1: Whiteflame concedes that the rules are true in any policy debate but Whiteflame points out that: “A DDO debate is not a formal policy debate unless the rules in R1 make it so.”….Let’s get a quote from Round 1: “this is a policy debate”…..Let’s look in the resolution: “….reefs along its coastlines (Policy debate)”….Over. OV2: Is this really relevant? I’d like to move on if you understand my sourcing. OV3: See abuse argument. Inherency The Chemical formula for limestone is CaCO3 [20] and the chemical formula for calcium carbonate is also CaCO3, the plan aggregates limestone on top of wire mesh from the ocean water, while reefs use the death of organic matter to make calcium carbonate so they are the same thing. However, what the coral rests upon is irrelevant, all of my evidence talks about corals themselves which is the same in both reef types. And in fact, Solvency evidence will show that the corals on Mineral Accretion reefs grow much healthier in every way. Thus despite the derivation of the CaCO3 corals live on, the evidence is nonetheless, about corals. Please read this evidence from my author Goreau: “Current conservation strategies practiced by governments, international funding agencies, and large environmental organizations have in almost all cases failed tragically to protect and conserve corals, and diverted attention and funding from the critically urgent need to restore damaged reefs.” [2] (Sec. Restoration Is Crucial, p. 2) General The meaning of restore is ‘to bring back’; Goreau refers to restoring coral reefs as a whole, by creating new ones using mineral accretion. Flow this quote my direction because he is advocating for my plan, mineral accretion, as the solution to all these problems, I couldn’t run the fisheries advantage because I didn’t have enough space, due to the fact that I was forced to waste discussion on rules and abuse. Finally, I need not solve for political clout, I just solve the whole problem executively. Counter Plan The Permutation If the resolution was “Resolved: Let’s walk the dog for 30 min” and someone said “No, counterplan”: Let’s breath the air for 30 min instead, then you would say “Well this is stupid, we can do both at the same time”. Exactly, this is a permutation, it points out that nothing about the counterplan excludes the plan’s existence (mutually exclusive) and thus it doesn’t competewith the plan and is invalid. A mutually exclusive counterplan is that same CP but resolution is ""Sit at the bottom of a pool for 30 min"" A permutation asks if the plan and the counter plan could physically coexist at the same time, or if the happening of one would cancel the other, this test is required by the Policy Debate God.There is no reason that we cannot physically ‘pursue…wide-scale conservation initiatives as a country’ while also creating coral reefs on our coasts. This is because one can conserve current corals while creating more thus the CP is noncompetitive and therefore void. As shown, this IS a policy debate. Plan First, you never explain why the analogy is just like my plan, sarcasm doesn’t prove your argument. I drop the abuse argument, but not the underlying objection. I have participated in maybe 20 policy debate with this topic and have never been required to provide the “cost of the electrodes”. For the reason of specificity, Debate has come up with the process of “normal means”, which guarantees that the plan will go through reasonably normal ways as in real life, this is to prevent specificity abuse. It is forthrightly impossible for me to outline a real life plan to save the world, especially in 10k characters, that’s abusive. You have to explain how I damage education, not just declare that I do. Also, on ‘prep time fairness’, that’s what policy debate is Lol, you shouldn’t get sympathy for not reading R1 or the res. Adv.1 Hurricanes and storm surge Mineral Accretion is a process whereby one takes industrial grade wire mesh and conforms it to the same shape as any coral reef. You plug electricity into the wire mesh (usually about 1/9th of a AA battery) and limestone (same composition of natural reef) begins to accrete on the metal. Limestone is actually heavier than cement and thus the reefs act the Exact same as any other reef (including the reef crest, as Whiteflame points out), thus it of course has the same effects on waves as natural reefs. As far as depth, corals can only grow at a certain depth, thus, obviously the plan puts them at that depth, which is the same depth that attenuates waves and prevents storm damage. Next, I’ll fire your argument right back at you, this quote from my author, Beck, is about natural reefs, you have to give evidence that his quote relays to Mineral Accretion reefs (Not artificial reefs, Mineral Accretion reefs). This quote from Beck actually goes with my quote from Goreau which says current conservation methods suck, because methods of growing natural reefs back, are failing and Mineral Accretion is the only technology which is effective and leaves no impact on the environment. Lastly, Whiteflame, I am sorry to relay that you aren’t in control of my plan. The plan doesn’t limit depth because of ships and if you want to make that into an argument against my case, be prepared to justify that MA reefs are not any taller than regular reefs and thus they will present no further damage to ships than reefs in the status quo do. As for your claims: Where is your evidence that 20 centimeters of accretion is insufficient? This doesn’t prove it is slow, slow is determined by effectiveness and my evidence says it is plenty effective as it is. Keep in mind that limestone is heavier than cement. On surveillance; the NSA is surveilling everything already, so this is already covered. Hahah, sorry, had to lol…My response; simply pointing out that in any project that the government does, it doesn’t do itself, it hires contractors who specialize in that field. Such will be the plan, if the contractors feel that surveillance is necessary then so be it, if not, then so be it, they know what they are doing (normal means). The only argument here is that you might be able to say that the plan will overspend, but is that really a huge issue. Adv.2 Pharmaceuticals You made a one sentence analytical argument about cancer with no evidence, I saw no need to refute. I never said that reef medicine has saved the world from cancer, but they have helped. If we can save even 1 life, one child, one grandmother from fatal sickness of cancer, arthritis, HIV, or what have you, then we have succeeded. Con wishes to put a limit on human life which I deem wrong. Even if it doesn’t contribute in a fantastical, ground breaking way, even specialized medicines which treat rare conditions are important. You’re evidence about making a dent on caner, may be true, but they have contributed and your evidence doesn’t support you, its just 2 arbitrary graphs on cancer. As far as price of HIV medicine, your evidence never says its expensive, not once, it says ALL medicines are expensive, great, so what? Its all about those impacts man. Extend that to all of your cost declarations. To the 1-5000; true, the success rate is low, is that a shocker? No, but how many microorganisms are in the sea? 3,670,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000. The majority of these microbes has never been cultured, identified, or classified, but it is assumed to contain an enormous chemical richness (DeLong 1997)[16]….Next, according to my solvency evidence, Mineral Accretion reefs become indistinguishable from naturally occurring reefs, except their exceptional health and growth rates. And Finally, your evidence about attracting fish from other reefs doesn’t make sense. There is nothing about a new reef that would pull fish from other reefs, unless that reef was lower quality in which case we want them in the new reefs, leading to higher, not lower, procreation rates and higher biodiversity. Keep in mind I never said Biodiversity was an advantage so you’re attacking a straw man here. Solvency 1.) You’re evidence here was the worst of all, obviously other factors will affect how successful the project will be, and yes, some locations may fail due to unexpected reasons, but again, we exclude infeasible locations. Contractors will know where to put them. 2.) Artificial reef no equals mineral accretion reefs, I’ve already explained this, if you disagree you should have refuted my claims in last round, since you have not, they must be true and your point invalid. 3.) On overfishing, there will be a TON of reefs, this isn’t one location of condensed fish this is 50,000 miles of places where fish could Possibly be. You need evidence for these claims, analytics don’t work. 4.) Whiteflame needs solvency evidence for lost clout and political will degradation, you again, can’t declare that into existence. 5.) BioD is irrelevant in many aspects. What’s important is number or animals alive, which must increase with the gaining of new habitat, especially being that Mineral Accretion reefs provide substantially healthier reef ecosystems. “Biorock technology…are self-repairing…grow under conditions that would normally kill them (poor water quality or high temperatures would otherwise prevent it)… grow at 3-5 times record rates in areas where all the surrounding corals had been killed…In the Maldives 50-80% of the corals survived the high temperatures that only 1-5% of the corals on surrounding reefs survived. These reefs have preserved coral…that have vanished [and] Biorock reefs have effectively absorbed wave energy that they have turned an eroding beach into a growing one…Settlement of larval corals take place at exceptionally high densities…Larval and adult fishes are attracted to these structures at exceptional densities, quickly forming schools so dense that one cannot see across the structures.” [2] Cites [18] http://tinyurl.com... [19] http://tinyurl.com...; [20] http://tinyurl.com...; [21] http://tinyurl.com... Thank you"	PRO	879
879	Se34b2994-A77b3cae3	Nuclear Non Proliferation Treaty (NPT) should be abolished in its current form.	"Refutations Ban on Nukes It is very unrealistic because the U.S., UK, China, Russia, and France all have long ""rap sheets"" of violating international laws, agreements, treaties, etc. The U.S. violated international law repeatedly by sending U-2 spy planes over the USSR.[1] Russia violated the START treaty by developing new ICBM's.[2] The U.S. violated international law by producing biological weapons.[3] Russia violated international law by attacking Georgia in the South Ossetia War.[4] Some of these violations are minor, but others are rather horrifying. Regardless, Russia and the U.S. have already outright violated international laws and treaties by producing nuclear and biological weapons. This just goes to show you how ineffective these bans regarding nuclear weapons are when they are already in the hands of those that have them. So I will dismiss the notion of banning all nuclear weapons as unrealistic seeing that the signatories have trouble following bans on Bio weapons and ICBMs. Balance of Power My opponent has no rebuttal to the fact that North Korea attacked South Korea with no justified reason or in response to the threat Iran poses to Israel. He makes no attempt to defend the point that they are irresponsible and have malicious intentions. I've already shown that the U.S. bombings of Japan were in response to Japan's refusal to accept the Potsdam declaration (surrender terms), and therefore would have required more time, lives, and money to end the war. [5] In this case the bombs were used responsibly. The colonization of foreign powers by the UK and France does not show that they are responsible with nuclear weapons. They would have no need or motive to use them irresponsibly against their colonies especially with firm governments in place. North Korea and Iran are currently aggressive to nations that mean them no harm and would have motive to use them in a war they may instigate if they were being beaten in a military confrontation. Israel is a stable country with a firm government in place and has not been aggressive towards other major powers. Belarus, Ukraine, and South Africa were simply places were the U.S. and USSR kept nuclear weapons to be used in the event of a war. Just because the USSR kept nukes in Ukraine does not mean Ukraine could fire them. This point is moot. North Korea has crude nuclear weapons that have less yield than 1,000 tons of tnt.[6] To give you an idea of how ineffective that is I have posted a video link that shows the explosion of 100 tons. They have ""nukes"" in the most liberal sense of the word. South Africa was only able to create 6 nuclear bombs and only in response to the communist presencce in Africa. They quickly destroyed them showing that they were responsible. [7] Defense U.S. restraint The U.S. has considered using nuclear weapons in large conflicts but refused to. That shows restraint. Minor Revisions Allowing nuclear states to be legitimate under the NPT is a minor revision. India and Israel already have nuclear weapons. Revising the NPT to allow stable states with proven safeguards is minor since every state that has nuclear weapons worth reckoning with is currently under a stable govt. Revising the NPT to include them would change nothing. Nuclear Safeguards The NPT does not simply oppose the production of nuclear weapons in unstable states, it also opposes the exchange of nuclear weapons between other countries. Sure the countries who manufacture nuclear weapons such as the U.S., Russia, China, etc all have complex safeguards. But say Russia decides to hand a few over to Iran. Then Iran decides to give a handful to Palestine and so on. The point is is that countries obtaining nuclear weapons will not always be the ones building them, they could simply be the buyer or allies of those that posses them. Sources [1]http://bit.ly... [2]http://bit.ly... [3]http://bit.ly... [4]http://reut.rs... [5]http://bit.ly... [6]http://bit.ly... [7]http://bit.ly... bit.ly/KjcKM <-- YT link"	CON	880
880	Sde2ed754-A959a0e0f	The U.S. Federal Government should increase its exploration and/or development of space	"I thank my opponent for accepting to this debate, now lets get this party started then. To answer your first two questions. ""Would you go so far as to say the U.S should do away with space exploration and never consider it again?"" -It is not forever it is saying that the U.S. should do it now or in the very near future. ""Are you debating against the idea of space exploration/research as a whole(As in all the nations) or just the United States' involvement with the..."" -It is only for the U.S. and I am saying that the U.S. should not increase it's extrasolar exploration and/or development. I propose that the exploration and/or development of space should be the last thing taken care of from the U.S. federal government. Why must the U.S. federal government worry about space when there are many problems on the planet we all live on right now. Now for the definitions. 1. Exploration: ""the investigation of unknown regions.""[1] 2. Development: ""the act or process of developing; growth; progress""[1] Now for my case, which consists of 3 main points. 1. There are too many problems with planet Earth. 2. It is far too expensive. 3. It is far too dangerous. 1. There are too many problems on planet Earth. Earth, it holds about 7 billion strange beings who walk on two legs, called human. There are too many problems on the planet Earth, let alone America, to even consider going out into space. There is no world peace. There needs to be a world peace before America go out into space, the risk for space war fair would be too high if the world isn't at an agreement on peace. The world would have to come together and create a world peace before the world let alone America goes out and does space missions. For example, al Qaeda, now that Osama bin laden died ""Lone individuals are the most likely to launch attacks in the United States following the death of al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden, according to a joint Department of Homeland Security/FBI bulletin sent to state and local law enforcement.""[2]. 2. It is far too expensive. America's economy is going in a downward spiral into the extreme pit of debt. Something like putting a person in space would take a lot of money to do. Everything about sending things into space would require money that America doesn't have. ""Q. How much does it cost to launch a Space Shuttle? A. The average cost to launch a Space Shuttle is about $450 million per mission.""[3]. How can America spend money if there is no extra money? If America got $450 million dollars, America should use it for more important issues like education or public health. 3. It is far too dangerous. Taking a look back to history, when the explorers came to the Americas, they have been introduced to new things that they weren't ready for such as disease, and new hard ships. Sub point A, foreign disease possibility. In the T.V. movie ""The Adromina strain"" an asteroid hits the earth and it contains a new disease called the Adromina strain where it would infect the human race and leave the population dwindling, luckily Hollywood added the happy ending of the human race finding the cure and then saves their race, but reality isn't Hollywood. Exploring new and foreign planets could contain a new disease that could wipe out the human population. The discovery of ice on the poles of Mars could hold new bacteria or viruses that could be taken back to Earth and, because humans haven't been introduced to this new disease, it could cause deaths on the global level. Sub point B, accidents, radiation, and harsh condition, oh my! Accidents can happen any where you might say, but if someone broke something in space, or someone was hurt and needed to be rushed to the hospital, how can they get this person to the hospital if there isn't hospital's in space, which could lead to more deaths. The sun emits high amounts of radiation, with out the protective gear, the radiation would give people cancer, or other medical problems. Trying to colonize on a new planet could be very hard, going back to my example of the explorers going to the Americas, when they got to the Americas they had to live in harsh environments, but unlike the uncolonized Americas, other planets, like Mars, would be a challenge to colonize. All of these problems could lead to an unwanted death rate that would cause problems. So, because there are problems on Earth, it is far too expensive, and it is far too dangerous, the U.S. federal government shouldn't increase is exploration and/or development of space. Now for my opponent to construct his/her case, and to attack my case. Vote Con! [1] = dictionary.com [2] = http://www.cnn.com...... [3] = http://www.nasa.gov......"	CON	881
881	S40d0b8cb-A85f1c453	Resolved: The USFG should replace its welfare program with a Negative Income Tax	"I thank my opponent for his arguments and this round I will try to address his all of his arguments. My opponent quotes Milton Friedman from Mises website, but if you read further in the sources you'll see that Friedman states, ""it does not eliminate that incentive entirely, as a system of supplementing incomes up to some fixed minimum would. An extra dollar earned always means more money available for expenditure. [1]"" We can thus see, by my opponent's own arguments, that NIT would solve this issue. In this debate we are debating whether or not NIT should replace Welfare, not whether or not NIT is good. Even if NIT is a horrible idea, if I can show that it's better than welfare, I would win the debate by doing so. People would have plenty of incentives to work as, unlike welfare, they can still earn NIT if they work a part time job, unlike welfare where you'll lose your benefits. This would encourage work and help boost the economy. If we look at the quote my opponent has provided and if you read a little bit further you'll see ""(though at the cost of excluding large groups of the poor—such as two-parent families—from eligibility) [2]"" We can see here that a great deal of people are actually excluded from Jodie Allen's statement and these are the people we need to be looking at. Excluding these people are harmful to evidence and it should be thrown out of the debate as to this. This actually helps me more than my opponent as it shows that with these people included, NIT is better than welfare. My opponent states that getting rid of food stamps would create a whole new problem, but this is false. People are rational beings and will make Rational Choices in the market, especially when it comes to their survival [3]. The sentence above my opponent's quote reads, ""These experiments more carefully integrated existing welfare programs and offered more generous NIT plans.[2]"" This explains the reasoning behind my opponent's quote. This shows the fact that the way the expirement was executed makes it impossible to be replicated on a national level due to certain controls in the expirament which would not occur under the new change in the system as under the purposed system, welfare would not be a factor at all. One of the things that people have with the Seattle-Denver expirament was there was a ton of unknown factors, like increased higher-education. Not to mention that the source that you linked had also stated that not only was this the case when certain groups of people were excluded or the fact that there was a great deal of different factors involved. The source had also stated that it was impossible to reproduce it on a national level with the intermixing NIT with welfare. This would not have happened under the proposed resolution. Glen Cain, on the NIT expiraments showed that for single mothers, that this increased their likelihood of them getting married in order for them to increase the amount of benefits they would recieve [4]. This increases family unity and increases marriage unity under NIT unlike that of Welfare. The incecntive for working would be increased as you could keep working and still make more money. The numbers I provided where at a zero income, but as soon as you start working, welfare drops off to zero while NIT would still be there to help the family. I have also showed in my last contention that it can help lift people under the poverty level while welfare keeps people under the poverty line. My opponent tries to offer a Red Herring by offering a balanced wage policy argument, but this has absolutely nothing to do with the debate. He then states that giving people that much doesn't get people out of poverty, but I'm simply adding the NIT equation to the minority wages which shows that it gets the individual out of poverty. Sources 1. (http://tinyurl.com...) 2. (http://tinyurl.com...) 3. (http://tinyurl.com...) 4. (http://tinyurl.com...)"	PRO	882
882	Sde2ed754-Adef32a8d	The U.S. Federal Government should increase its exploration and/or development of space	"Okay then, I will adopt a response structure similar to that of my opponent's. I will first present four points of my own with elaboration followed by a rebuttal to each of my opponents points. 1. Space Exploration has the potential to inspire a society of Scientists and Engineers. 2. By studying beyond the Earth we gain a better understanding of our planet and our place in the Universe. 3. Space research and exploration leads to technological and scientific advancements that benefit humanity and the planet. 4. The United States doesn't spend as much money as many believe on space related development. 1. Space Exploration has the potential to inspire a society of Scientists and Engineers. When NASA put a man on the moon in 1969, the entire world witnessed a first not just for America, but humanity. The object of many cultures folklore had become a reachable, conquerable destination. This left an unquestionable impression on anyone witnessing this event live on television across the world. This inspired a generation to pickup science and engineering in hopes of one day getting involved in something so monumental. A society abundant with scientists and engineers is a very positive payoff for the amount invested in the program. 2. By studying beyond the Earth we gain a better understanding of our planet and our place in the Universe. Global warming, or climate change can best be understood from what we have been able to gather from our study of the Earth's neighboring planets, such as Venus. On Venus, we have been able to calculate surface temperatures over 800 degrees Fahrenheit, which is hot enough to melt lead! [ 1 ] The reason this happens is because of a phenomenon known as the ""greenhouse effect"" which occurs when there are excess amounts of greenhouse gases[such as carbon dioxide, methane, or ozone] present in the atmosphere. This very real example helps us understand just how serious the concept is and how important it is to pay close attention to the matter. Other examples include the discovery of the origin of atoms, the formation of our Sun, or the Hubble telescope. Knowing about these discoveries tells us a lot about our place in the Universe, and teaches us a very important lesson about just how important it is to take care of our planet. Having this knowledge available to us also teaches us about the dangers of Universe, such as solar flares, asteroid impacts, or cosmic radiation, and prepares us for figuring out how to prevent, avoid, or minimize disaster. There's no guarantee such disasters won't happen in the very near future, having the knowledge and resources ready to combat it is a worthy investment. 3. Space research and exploration leads to technological and scientific advancements that benefit humanity and the planet. Before America entered into the Space Race there was nothing many of us take for granted today. Examples include satellite technology, the space station, Skylab, cell phones, telemedicine, or GPS navigation. The start of space research and exploration has had a ripple effect on past and present technology, and unfortunately present issues have caused NASA's priorities to shift. Without a major goal, and a decreased budget, NASA stagnates, and there's no schedule or restrictions to abide by that motivate anything major from happening. No research and development yields no new discoveries. The type of advancement that could be occurring through NASA is also decades ahead of what the private sector could achieve. The sooner we start making advancement, the sooner we can begin to reap the rewards. 4. The United States doesn't spend as much money as many believe on space related development. The most funding NASA has ever received from the government was approximately 5.5% of the annual budget in 1966 during the Apollo program. After 1975, the budget dropped off to values on average of less than 1.0 %, having an average of approximately 0.76 % of the national budget from 1998-2008. [ 2 ] It's also important to understand that not all of the money that goes to NASA is put toward space related projects. NASA also does work on aeronautics, so some of the budget is put toward other endeavors. [Could not find reliable data that specified difference] In terms of the knowledge, technology, and inspiration acquired, isn't the Universe worth a little bit more to us? I shall now address my opponents points: 1. There are too many problems on planet Earth. I disagree that because of the many problems on Earth we[America] should cease a healthy push toward a more vigorous space program. I happen to agree with my opponent that world peace would be essential for deep space exploration. However, the potential benefits that going it alone for now, and by that I mean Mars and Moon excursions, foster what I would lightly claim to be a ""healthy space race."" Imagine rather than mustering military might we focus more on trying to accomplish a common goal that is likely to lead to the same kind of benefits as the Apollo program and other space endeavors have. Also, there wasn't world peace when we launched the Apollo program, in fact we were well into the Cold War. Yet the fruits of the program which led to satellites which enabled the ability to see what the ""other side"" was up to, which could have been responsible for calming both sides down by allowing them to truly see what was going on in each others ""back yards."" 2. It is far too expensive. As I've already addressed in my fourth point, NASA has received at most 5.5% of the annual budget during it's lifetime, and the results of that higher percentage [Namely Apollo] marked the starting point of many technologies that eventually led to the components of what stimulates our economy to this day. If you could spend 'x' amount of dollars fostering a program that influences members of your society to pursue paths that promote careers that are essential to solving world problems, what would be your limit? 3. It is far too dangerous. I have to apologize to my opponent and claim that accidents do happen. Accidents are a part of learning and unfortunately great discovery and advancement often comes with that risk. Gasoline is dangerous yet we sit on gallons of the stuff as we drive to and from work day by day. There has even been serious attempts to make hydrogen a fuel source in cars eventually. Nuclear Power even has it's risks as we've recently been reminded of. We wouldn't have satellites, air planes, fossil fuels, or medicines if we didn't accept those risks associated with the benefits. You referenced ""The Andromeda Strain"" having it's ""Hollywood ending"" in which a miracle cure is somehow found to save humanity. However we must remember that the movie is also based on a ""Hollywood premise"" which we shouldn't take too seriously when concerning what we actually know and theorize about life[or disease] on other worlds. I understand your point about how helpless a crew would be rendered if a critical failure of some type were to occur. However these are challenges and risks the crew of a mission accepts, and there many people who feel the same way. These problems are viewed as challenges to engineers and scientists to solve and develop new technologies that can be reworked and applied to problems on the Earth. Seeing that the potential increase of knowledge, national pride, and technological advancement vastly outweighs the expenditures, it is perfectly reasonable to increase the federal spending on the advancement of space exploration. Look forward to round 3! [1] = http://solarsystem.nasa.gov... [2] = http://www.richardb.us..."	PRO	883
883	S701e7d34-Ad85a470	Agnosticism can not support its claims with facts and evidence	"Rebuttal to Agnosticism Further Defined My opponent accuses me of “re-defining” the definition of Agnosticism. However, I gave the correct definition off of the Oxford dictionary. In fact my opponent affirms his position that the Oxford dictionary defined as he says right here “As a philosophical position, agnosticism maintains that God or gods are unknown, meaning that agnostics do not know whether or not they exist.” However, my opponent errs in 2 ways. 1. He assumes that he does not share the Burden of Proof. 2. He assumes that one can hold Agnosticism along with Atheism and Theism. My opponent must shoulder the burden of proof as to why he believes “he doesn’t know” or as to why “we can’t know”. Second, you cannot hold to Agnosticsm/Theism or Atheism/Theism at the same time. Theism is not the ‘default’ position. Also Theism is the belief that God does exist. Either you hold to the position that God does exist(Theism). God does not exist(Atheism). Or we don’t know if God does or does not exist(Agnosticism). You can’t affirm two opposite positions at the same time. Rebuttal to The Plausibility of Agnosticism My opponent mentions Bertrand Russell inventing the LONC. Bertrand Russell was an atheist, and the LONC destroyed his own belief because Atheism is self-defeating as well as Agnosticism. My opponent accuses me of committing a straw-man here, by using the LONC to show how Agnosticism is self-defeating. However, as I clearly showed before, Agnosticism says that we can’t know if God does/does not exist. It doesn’t matter if my opponent affirms a strong or weak position. What matters if the justification for that position. His position is a conclusion based upon “X” amount of evidence. If he believes that his conclusion: “I don’t know”, then he needs to give positive arguments for why he doesn’t know. Rebuttal to Agnosticism: The Perfect Reference Point Con just assumes that Agnosticism is superior to Christian Theism. However, Con does not give any arguments for his position of Agnosticism. He again just simply argues against my position and makes baseless assumptions that have no facts to back them up. Rebuttal to Science Supports Agnosticism, Not Faith My opponent argues that we can’t know if God exists because we can’t test God through empirical evidence. My opponent also says that we can’t use the direct Scientific method for determining the Resurrection of Jesus. However, there are other things that the Inductive Scientific method can’t prove like: History, Forensics, Mathematical Proofs and Philosophy. In Forensics for example, a Forensic Pathologist wouldn’t go to a crime scene and say “Oh let’s run this experiment again to see who murdered the victim.” Such thinking would be absurd. The question “Does God exist?” is not a scientific, but a philosophical question. When we evaluate the 4 facts: The Burial, the Post-mortem Appearances, The Burial of Jesus, and The Origin of belief in the disciples, we would deduce the 4 facts and come to the most logical inference or conclusion, which is that Jesus must have risen bodily from the dead. Also my opponent uses the old pagan parallel myths to Jesus. However, these have been refuted by scholars and historians 100 years ago in the 19th century because there was no connection.[6][2]http://www.youtube.com...; My opponent also accuses me of saying the Bible is a Science book. However, I made no such claim in my opening argument although I will go ahead and address Con’s argument. Genesis 7:12 states that “the floodgates of the heavens” opened, and rain fell for 40 days and 40 nights. In other words, hard rain fell in the region continuously for 40 days. Meteorologically, these factors constitute an unprecedented rain event in a region that averages only 10-20 inches of rainfall per year. No natural explanation exists for a storm so large, intense, or persistent in this region. This would obviously prove that God provided the elephants and animals with enough water and food for 300 days. Remember Elephants also store water in their trunks and bodies, so it wouldn’t disprove the flood even happened. The Hebrews were just as able (and by extension of the same scheme used with grasshoppers, katydids, etc) to regard the back legs of other types of flying insects as being of a different order, of being something different, so that only the first four were called plain old ""feet"" as only the first four on the hoppers, etc. were called feet, while the others were given a differing name such as ""legs above their feet"". So there is no conflict in that passage between what we have in science. My opponent needs to read these things in context first. Also, the fact there are other flood accounts would prove that the Biblical story actually happened because the Biblical flood can be verified since we have the exact dimensions of the boat that would support a flood. Other flood accounts fall short and are not verifiable.[1][4][5] Rebuttal to Meaning and Life My opponent doesn’t really give any objective reasons as to why human beings exist on an Agnostic Worldview. He simply just gives a subjective illustration of believers and non-believers having fun on a beach. I agree that it would be fun to hang out on a beach, but that doesn’t explain our existence on this planet “objectively”. Rebuttal to Agnosticism and Morality: My Opponent seems to have a huge misunderstanding of the Divine Command Theory. The DCT, s essentially teaches that a thing (i.e., action, behavior, choice, etc.) is good because God commands it to be done or evil because God forbids it from being done. However, the purpose of the DCT is to show that there must be an objective moral-law giver in order for objective moral values and duties to exist. The DCT does not argue for a particular Religion or God. WLC is not the founder of the DCT. WLC just argues a form of the DCT. There are many reputable philosophers like Ravi Zacharias, Alvin Plantinga, Saint Augustine, Robert Merrihew Adams,etc. Whenever you raise the problem of evil, you must include God in the paradigm because if you assume there’s such a thing as evil, you must assume there’s such a thing as good. If you assume Good and evil, then there must be a moral law or standard by which to differentiate between Good and evil. If there is a moral law, then there must be a moral law giver(God) who gives human beings that moral law. What I did was take the DCT one-step further and applied it to the Judeo-Christian God because the Judeo-Christian God is the one true God. My opponent hasn’t really offered any arguments for the foundation of objective moral values and duties on his own worldview of Agnosticism. He just simply argued against mine. My opponent also accused God in the bible of atrocities; however, he never cites passages to support his point. Morality on an agnostic and atheist worldview would be “Arbitrary”. The atheist philosopher of science, Michael Ruse, confirms this point: ""The position of the modern evolutionist is that humans have an awareness of morality because such an awareness is of biological worth. Morality is a biological adaptation, no less than our hands and feet and teeth. Considered as a rationally justifiable set of claims about an objective something, ethics is illusory. I appreciate that when someone says, ""love thy neighbor as thyself,"" they think they are referring above and beyond themselves. Nevertheless such reference is truly without foundation. Morality is just an aid to survival and reproduction, and any deeper meaning is illusory.""[3] J.L. Mackie, one of the most outspoken atheists of this century agrees, ""Moral properties are most unlikely to have arisen without an all-powerful god to create them.”[3] Sources: [3] http://www.michaelhorner.com...... [2] http://www.youtube.com... [1] http://www.reasons.org... [4] http://scienceblogs.com... [5] http://www.tektonics.org... [6] http://www.youtube.com... Conclusion: My opponent hasn’t really given any positive arguments for Agnosticism. All we have seen are arguments against my position of Christian Theism. I have provided objective facts and evidences to support my claims. I gave historical and philosophical evidence. Con has not given any facts or evidences to support his position of Agnosticism, which he was supposed to in this debate. I therefore conclude that Christian Theism is sound because it has a point of Reference to Morality, Logic, History, Prophecy, Science, and Reality."	PRO	884
884	S418a9f82-A3a624c35	Resolved: The US Federal Government should significantly reform its Criminal Justice System (Policy)	"I thank Con very much for dropping the mandate arguments as they were confusing and irrelevant. I will now proceed to refute his last argumentation. Cost: 1. For some reason debate.org messed up the formatting of two of my links. If the link is broken, it's because debate.org added a space to the end of the URL. Just remove the space to see the article. I apologize for the inconvenience. Secondly, Con's evidence was misquoted. He said that the senate couldn't come up with an estimate, but click on the link and look right under the quote: it estimates how much the plan would cost. As we can see, the cost is estimateable. 2. Because if ALL interrogation rooms are used 10 times per year, and there are 175,000 suspects, then we know how many interrogation rooms there are total. 3. I am sorry about the links, I believe it was the debate.org's formatting messing it up. See 1. for how to fix it. Also if you look at the amount of suspects, it doesn't change drastically year to year. Plus, why does that matter? Suspects have nothing to do with the cost. 4. This math is completely flawed. Con seems to think that the cost of interrogations is based on the amount of people interrogated. That is not the case. It's based on the amount of interrogation rooms. Con multiplied my number of 7,500 per room by 175,000 suspects rather than by the amount of interrogation rooms, so this math is flawed and should be disregarded. The federal agencies will most likely choose the best price for their equipment. Plus, 7,500 is a MAXIMUM estimate by my evidence. Once again Con continues to make nit picky arguments. Imagine a case to send twenty soldiers to Russia to deliver an envelope. Besides the fact that the case is obviously dumb and frivolous, you could argue that the plane might crash. But that's such a nit picky argument it should be considered. I would urge you as a voter to look at each argument and realize that Con has not provided much evidence to back things up, and most of his arguments are mitigation, not reasons to vote against me. Advantage 1. 1. Con is very confusing here... The difference between Guantanamo Bay etc. and this plan is that this plan RECORDS, guantanamo bay didn't. A federal agent isn't going to be abusive when there's a camera recording his EVERY move. 2. I don't get Con's point here. I agree trickery in interrogation is not a basis to disregard a confession. I never said trickery is an abusive tactic. Con is actually supporting the fact that interrogations should be recorded: so we can stop any abuse coming up! Advantage 2. 1. These sources are talking about the amount of KNOWN wrongful convictions. There are many that might not be known. 2. Once again, this is a logical fallacy. My plan is not all for preventing wrongful convictions, I have 5 other advantages! This plan is not for 3% of the criminal justice system, it is for much more. Advantage 3. and 6 I never conceded this point, I don't know where Con got this from. I responded to the argument about reviewing recordings by mentioning that not all recordings will be used for evidence. Also I want to repeat, there is no evidence behind my opponent's argument while mine does have evidence. Con conceded less disputes, which does save money. Advantage 4. Since when was a federal interrogation room more high-tech? That's an extremely random statement and once again it doesn't even matter. First of all, I'm not the one figuring out whether the video is going to be evidence, it's the prosecutors. This is a policy debate round. Second, Con jumped from ""24 hour interrogations"" to ""weeks worth"". When will he make up his mind? I've never heard of an interrogation that lasts a week. Third, there's only one interrogation per case. That's how it works. The suspect is thrown in jail, interrogated, and then the system continues. Fourth, I would like to reference what he says in the next section as support for this. He says that the interrogator will probably not remember such details. (like what color of car was mentioned). Thus it follows that the interrogator will not be able to give a detailed account of the interrogation a day or more later. Once again, Con has no evidence against this. I have evidence. Advantage 5. This example is flawed because the interrogator doesn't need to know the suspect's inconsistency in testimony until AFTER the interrogation. After the interrogation he can look at the recording and notice the difference in testimony. In fact, remember my evidence under Advantage 6. It says that recordation of the entire interrogation will allow investigators to see inconsistencies in testimony. This response does not apply. Lastly, the interrogator is allowed to take notes, he just can't submit them as evidence. So why are we arguing this. This is not a reason to vote Con at all. Significance Based on flawed logical reasoning which in turn is based on assumptions, it would cost them more money. Which do you prefer, voters? Evidence clearly stating that recording saves money, or some assumptions tied together with some logic to come up with the wrong conclusion that it doesn't save money? Mr. Sullivan has written several articles. Unfortunately the article I'm referencing is something you have to pay for since it's part of a law review. Here's a link: http://business.highbeam.com... But in that article he talks about the survey. Yes it is the new jersey supreme court, but that doesn't matter. It's still a credible source that's referencing previous experience to show that it costs 7,500 per interrogation room. Conclusion Now since this is the last round, I would like to mention some things. First of all, Con is not allowed to bring up new arguments in the next round, since I have no opportunity to respond to them. I would urge you to be cautious when reading through the last argument by Con to find fallacies, and I encourage you to read through mine again after to see that his arguments don't actually respond to mine. Here are some voting issues, or basically reasons why you should vote Pro. Voting issue 1. Comparative Advantage There are several advantages to recording interrogations. Advantage 1. Officers and suspects protected. Advantage 2. Decreased possibility of wrongful convictions Advantage 3. Efficiency Advantage 4. Money saved Advantage 5. Improved interrogation Advantage 6. Increased prosecution evidence I've responded to all of Con's arguments against my advantages, and they still stand. Please remember that I have used evidence from the beginning of this debate, while Con has used minimal evidence. That leads us to: Voting issue 2. Evidence All of Con's major arguments have been based off of assumptions and so-called ""logic"", but he has not really responded to the actual evidence. His first two pieces of evidence were just mentioning bills that were not passed. We both agreed to end the argument on this since it was a simple misunderstanding of policy debate, and Con has not done this type of debate before so it's undrestandable. His second two were talking about false confessions. Once again, they may have spent years on this but they only know about a fraction of the amount of false confessions. His next evidence was saying the cost could be 30,000 dollars ""per session"", but the evidence actually said one department cost 30,000 dollars to outfit with recording equipment. Note that it must have had several interrogation rooms. This evidence was misquoted. The last evidence he quoted was also misused because he said that they couldn't come up with an estimate of how much this costs, but right after what he quoted, the original article estimated it would cost 5 million. I clearly have provided superior evidence and thus have proven my side of the arguments further. For these two reasons, I urge you to vote Pro. Thank you very much for taking the time to read this debate."	PRO	885
885	Sb1be1163-A312ad459	"""X only gives birth to its kind"" is an invalid argument against Evolution"	"Moving continents"".sounds like a tectonic shift! Before we begin, I will not be making any references to any religious text apart from the words of the topic at hand. Also I will not be putting forward arguments for creationism as that is not the topic for debate. The only thing I will be addressing is the validity of the criticism at hand. The Taxonomy classifications attributed to animals is only possible due to the extinction of all the myriad transitional species that have existed since the beginning of life. If these species still existed there would be an indefinable gradual difference between flora and fauna types. This would make it impossible for us to draw a line in the sand and delineate between their respective attributes. Taxonomy is totally reliant on evolutionary gaps for it to be a functional and workable classification system. Prior to the biological classification system that we use now, humans used different names to define and classify groups of animals - In a biblical sense this word is ""kind"". Biologists when classifying life are sometimes grouped into lumpers and splitters - the former grouping animals into larger groups, the later attempt to define each variation to much greater detail. The word ""kind"" appears to be firmly in the lumping category. and for the sake of argument let us put forward that they relate to a group of animals that are able to interbreed with each other - i.e. kind comes from kind. Although scientific taxonomy is much more granular and involves multiple layers of classifications, it doesn't preclude this system from having similar arbitrary lines drawn between different animals. This is apparent as ""splitters"" are always keen to claim the discovery of new animal types whereas lumpers will disagree. The problems of classification exist whatever name you allocate to an animal. This is becoming increasingly an issue as DNA evidence moves animals around the tree of life as previously established observed traits and relationships are superseded by new DNA evidence - e.g. Falcons are now considered more closely related to Parrots than to Hawks and other birds of prey. (1) When classifying animals, we do not look at a population "" we look at individual examples and then compare these creatures with others of a similar biological structure. If they are suitably different, they may even get their own name "" and finding a new individual specimen can be the highlight of a biologist""s career. Similarly with fossils "" they are not classified in reference to a large population, they are classified based on a collection of fossilised remains of a single individual, or even sometimes only a small smattering of bones of a single individual. It is worth noting that taxonomy did not begin by mapping out the tree of life in relation to evolution and common ancestors as some would lead you to believe, rather it was purely designed by grouping living things by their shared characteristics. Names that we use commonly today for classification, such as ""vertebrates"" and ""invertebrates"" were penned by Aristotle nearly 2500 years ago. (2) As such, a dog will always be a vertebrate, not necessarily because he is descended from a vertebrate, but because he has vertebrae. Evolutionary theory does not state that fish gave birth to frogs, rather each successive generation is slightly different to the one that came before, allowing a fish like creature to evolve into both populations of fish and amphibians. (With some allowance for a bit of status every now and then) As such, over time, generations of a lineage would have to cross over the established arbitrary measures of how we define an organism/animal etc. Some biologists such as Richard Dawkins put forward that the first mammals were a shrew like creature. So this shrew (like creature) would have kept producing more shrews, but over millions of years they would cease falling into the shrew (like) category, and instead find themselves as primates, equines, or canines and the list goes on. Classification during this process is like asking what gear you are in on a variable speed gearbox (found in scooters). It cannot be defined as the arbitrary demarcations we put between classifications begin to blur So just like this shrew over time became the variety of mammals we see now, we would expect dogs to evolve in a similar manner so that over time they cease being what we define as ""dogs"" and become another species altogether over many many generations of mutation and natural selection. But this is not what we observe in the natural realm. We have had several thousand years of intense selective breeding of dogs and they still remain dogs despite their huge variation from chihuahua to great danes... The same for cattle, horses, sheep and the like. Alternatively, these potential new forms may still be known as ""canine"" but many successive layers of sub-classification would need to be added to the taxonomy so that it could then distinguish between all the variations of animals that no longer resemble what we would currently consider a ""dog"". There could be ""dogs"" who evolve to: Have pouches, Have fins, Have wings Are Bipedal Have horns Have opposing thumbs etc. etc. Through convergent evolution, their characteristics would be visually more similar to other types of mammals (although their DNA would state otherwise). Evolutionary theory teaches us that certain traits have evolved multiple times along different branches of the tree of life. Once again we can refer to the recent reclassification of Falcons who obtained their similar traits to other birds of prey independently. (1) There is no reason to think why this wouldn""t, or couldn""t happen again. Just as we are not considered a ""shrew"" as our distant ancestors were, a horned winged bipedal ""dog"" would no longer be considered what we classically consider a dog. Through gradual changes over successive generations, a species, or ""kind"" should morph into another kind. As we have not seen this occur in existing animals over several millennia, it is a fair criticism of the evolutionary model. We see a relatively wide range of variation within a species - sometimes happening in only a few short generations - such as the Russian Domesticated Silver Fox experiment (3) - but there is an observable limit to this variation. Direct observations should be taken with more weight than speculations on the existence of family trees that are having to unpredictably evolve themselves counter intuitively as we map the genome of different creatures. It is completely scientifically valid to use a directly observable occurrence that has been witnessed over several millennia to challenge an ever changing inference. (1)http://en.wikipedia.org... (2)http://en.wikipedia.org...(biology) (3)http://en.wikipedia.org..."	CON	886
886	S664d2873-Ab2847224	Resolved: The USFG should eliminate its nuclear armed ICBM force	Contention 1: The Trillion Dollar Triad A) The US Nuclear Triad is grossly outdated and in need of overhaul. Current plans for modernization of the US nuclear force have not engaged in rigorous estimates of the cost of modernization, have overlooked critical hurdles in the procurement timeline of modernization. Independent analysts estimate the modernization project will cost in excess of one Trillion dollars even without accounting for the typical budget inflation that accompanies large defense projects. As a point of comparison, the entire 2011 defence budget was roughly $665 billion. In planning and budgeting for nuclear modernization, the DOD has relied on documents that do not account for the full modernization effort. The result is that multiple DOD and air force officials have voiced concerns about the lack of planning for the upcoming modernization. The nuclear budget crisis is compounded by the existing fiscal anchor of the infamously expensive F-35 fighter program and the staggering array of defense programs set back by the recent sequestration of the defense budget. [1] http://cns.miis.edu... B. The looming nuclear budget crisis will lead to unplanned emergency cuts to defense spending and nuclear modernization. Contrary to popular beliefs, the government can’t fabricate financing for defense projects- the money has to come from somewhere or the project doesn’t happen. The recent sequestration proves this; the DOD provides a long list of planned projects that simply won’t happen without additional budget. [10] [10] http://www.defense.gov... C. Emergency budget cuts will result in chaotic and poorly planned attempts to reduce the cost of modernization. The ICBM force will likely be the first on the chopping block. The choice is to eliminate the ICBM now as part of a planned restructuring of US nuclear deterrence, or engage in a sudden forced disarmament as part of a budgetary crisis. Chaotic unplanned disarmament will undermine our nuclear deterrence not only during the emergency restructuring, but also in the long-term as modernization hobbles along in a haphazard and underfunded manner. [1] D. Loss of US nuclear deterrence makes both conventional and nuclear war more likely. First, by undermining any semblance of MAD, a loss of deterrent capability creates a power imbalance that increases the odds that major conflicts will go nuclear. In particular it drastically makes Russian nuclear war in Eastern Europe more likely. Russia has consistently indicated it views limited use of nuclear weapons in conventional war as a live strategic option. The instability along Russia’s European border means that Russia is consistently on the brink of nuclear war. [2] [2] http://www.nps.edu... E. Loss of US nuclear deterrence also undermines US nuclear assurances to allies, leading to Asian and European proliferation. Of particular concern is the impact to NATO countries, which enjoy the protection of the US “nuclear umbrella.” NATO countries face pressure to obtain nuclear weapons not only from Russia, but also from the prospect of a nuclear Iran- loss of a US security guarantee could result in a nuclearized Turkey, which shares a border with Iran [3] [3] http://www.brookings.edu... F. Emergency cuts to the US nuclear arsenal will undermine any prospect for future negotiations with Russia for two reasons. First, emergency cuts will force unilateral US arms reduction, undermining quid-pro-quo negotiations used to entice Russia into arms reductions. Second, GOP support of ratification of the 2010 New Start treaty was tied to promises of nuclear modification. A collapse of modernization efforts will preclude any possibility of bipartisan Senate support needed for future nuclear agreements as domestic support of arms reduction agreements is contingent on confidence in US nuclear capabilities. [4] This is a perception based issue, meaning the mere occurrence of a budget crisis will derail the prospects of future arms agreements. [4] http://armscontrolcenter.org... G. Nuclear weapons represent possibly the single greatest threat to the future of the human race. Arms agreements like START are critical to keeping the spectra of nuclear war at bay. Not only are such agreements our only hope for a nuclear-free world, arms agreements prevent proliferation and reduce the chances of nuclear miscalculation. Arms agreements include verification programs that yields transparency between participants. This removes an impetus for proliferation due to perceived capability imbalances and maintains a degree of trust and confidence in intentions between participants. [5] [5] https://fas.org... H) Strategic reductions of the ICBM force amounts to a one third reduction in the projected Triad budget force [1]. This savings comes both from reducing the cost of existing operations and foregoing planned modernization efforts. Contention 2: Nuclear Terrorism A) Low morale, underfunding, etc. have led to an epidemic of misbehavior and security lapses in the ICBM program. A laundry list to illustrate the disarray of the program: a commander was fired for going on a drunken bender while on mission in Moscow; a unit controlling ONE THIRD of ICBM FAILED a security inspection; officers in possession of nuclear launch keys have twice been caught sleeping on duty in nuclear command capsules with security doors ajar; the number two nuclear commander was reprimanded for gambling at a casino with fake chips; a criminal drug ring run by an ICBM officer who ALSO RAN A GANG. Existing ICBM facilities are wildly out of date and use decades old computers pre-dating floppy disks. [6] B) The terrible management of the ICBM program is endemic to the system- the Air Force fundamentally doesn’t believe in the value of the program. The Air Force views the ICBM program as unessential to national security, as evidenced by misbehavior at all levels of command. The political will doesn’t exist to take the ICBM program seriously and security problems will persist. The problems described above have persisted despite multiple security reviews and reports over the past decade. [6] [6] http://foreignpolicy.com... C) The impact is nuclear terrorism. ICBM’s are land based and pose a unique risk of being targeted for terrorist hijacking of missiles. Multiple security lapses and systematic failure to adhere to basic security procedures make the possibility of nuclear terrorism very real. In the case where security blast doors were deliberately left open while officer on duty were napping, a maintenance worker discovered the behavior. [7] An officer in the ICBM program was running organized criminal- infiltration of the ICBM program is not only conceivable but is actively occurring. [7] http://seattletimes.com... Contention 3: Eliminate the Third Wheel A) Nuclear weapons serve a narrow role in U.S. security- they are only effective as a deterrent against nuclear attacks by other countries. A combination of international norms and symmetrical deterrence by other nuclear powers means nukes can’t be used as a military stick in foreign policy. The reason the US hasn’t used nuclear weapons in the past 60 years is because the only thing nukes are good for is stopping other people from using nukes. The U.S. only needs a nuclear force capable of providing a credible deterrent. B) ICBM are least effective leg of the nuclear triad for multiple reasons: they are stationary targets easily identifiable by satellite; critical missile launch paths are inflexible and risk alarming third parties by crossing private airspace; ICBM have long trajectories and so require quick launch times, risking miscalculation. [8] [8] http://www.npr.org... C) Nuclear subs are critical to US deterrent capability. Subs are mobile, giving them the best chance to survive a nuclear attack. Subs are located globally, giving them shorter range launches and flexible launch trajectories. SLBM have optimal second-strike capability and are thus not only sufficient for US security needs, but exceed the technical requirements needed to maintain a credible nuclear deterrent D) ICBM costs directly trade off with funding supporting SLBM. In addition to the risk to the SLBM modernization outline in Contention 1, budget constraints mean the DOD is focusing on upgrading our existing ICBM stock rather than researching new SLBM. Shifting away from ICBM allows the US to focus on developing new SLBM technology [9] [9] http://news.usni.org... E) The impact is two-fold. First, the ICBM program is an unneeded anchor on US defense spending. The ICBM program does not serve defense needs and so should be eliminated as an unnecessary expenditure. Second, the ICBM program sucks funding from other programs more vital to the nuclear mission. Underview: Eliminating the ICBM program is crucial to avoiding the budgetary implosion of the US nuclear program. There are two impact scenarios: first, a loss of US nuclear deterrence. Second, loss of domestic support for arms control agreements. The ICBM program creates a unique risk of nuclear terrorism due to chronic mismanagement. The failure of past reform attempts indicates that elimination of the program is the only way fix this hole in security. Finally, ICBM are simply not needed. They aren’t worth the money we spend and compete for funding with the more important aspects of US nuclear defense.	PRO	887
887	Sf4a16d9-Aae1794d2	If you accept its ok to eat a chicken you must also accept some cases of cannibalism are ok	My argument is as follows. 1. One accepts its ok to eat chickens (or any other animal for that matter) 2. There is no morally relevant differences between chickens and anencephalic humans. 3. Therefore, its ok to eat anencephalic humans 1. Anencephalics are humans as they posses human DNA 2. Eating a being of human DNA whilst being a human is cannibalism 3. Therefore, eating anencephalics is cannibalism. If its ok to eat anencephalics and doing so would be cannibalism then you admit that some cases of cannibalism are permissible.	PRO	888
888	Sf4a16d9-A2c481b13	If you accept its ok to eat a chicken you must also accept some cases of cannibalism are ok	There is the argument that human meat is bad for you but that does not mean cannibalism is not ok. Just because coke is bad for you it does not mean those who consume it are morally wrong. Furthermore, many animals have parasites but I assume you don't think its wrong to eat them. So as you can give no proper argument will you accept that if one eats animals they have to also accept that cannibalism is not always wrong?	PRO	889
889	S3f433a94-Af416f57c	The USFG should substantially increase its military capability in Southeast Asia	"This debate is about a substantial increase of US military capability in Southeast Asia. Pro argues for an augmentation in ""friendly bases"" and that there need not be any new military bases. This means that the substantial increase will occur outside SEA because currently there are no US military bases in SEA. There is a only a supply post in Singapore. Pro said that ""US Navy can be stationed at friendly naval bases e.g. in the Philippines"". But of course there is not currently a US navy base in the Philippines. There used to be, but in 1991 the Philippines ordered the US to leave because their presence was seen as ""a vestige of colonialism and an affront to Philippine sovereignty."" [1] In the surrounding region, there are US military bases in Japan, Korea, Guam and Australia. None of these countries are in SouthEast Asia. Therefore, when Pro talks about a substantial increase, it's not clear what they mean. The Asian Pivot Pro argues that the ""numbers typically used in the literature are shifting from 50-50% current allocation of naval resources between Pacific and Atlantic to a 60-40 allocation. That is a 20% increase in Pacific naval power."" No, because these are proportional numbers, not absolute. A decrease in military resources in the Middle East, for example, means that proportionally the US has more military in the Asia-Pacific region, even if there is no change in numbers there. Some analysts say that this talk of an Asia Pivot is just a way to put a positive spin on pulling out of Iraq and Afghanistan. [2] The resolution is concerned with a substantial, absolute increase in military capability in SouthEast Asia. We accept that a reduction in military presence in other areas may mean that the current US forces in the Pacific region represent a greater proportion of the entire US military. But this is irrelevant to the resolution. There is no reason for a military increase There is no reason for the US to increase their military capabilities in SEA. Pro has talked wildly of nuclear proliferation and argued that SEA is a ""hotbed"" without a US presence. However, they have not provided a shred of evidence for these claims. piracy Pro argues that the US should intervene in SEA to stop piracy, especially in the Malacca Strait, even though the area is effectively patrolled by the MSP, a cooperative arrangement between four countries in SEA. [3] Pro's report mentions two incidents, where cargo was stolen but nobody was hurt. This is in the context of a general decrease in piracy [4]. For the the US to impose an unwelcome military presence on other, sovereign nations because of two incidents of theft that did not involve the US in any way (the robbed vessels were from Panama and Thailand) is just incredible. In a similar vein, Pro cited a article that described how piracy in the Malacca Strait has decreased, but that incidents in nearby Indonesia have increased. Indonesia is an island nation. Any incidents of theft on vessels in Indonesia are an internal matter for the Indonesian police. disaster relief Pro argues there should be a US military presence in SEA in case there are any natural disasters, and the military can help. What do aircraft carriers, cruise missiles, 16-inch shells, and fighter aircraft have to do with disaster relief? At best, a disaster will prompt only a TEMPORARY military response, especially from foreign forces. It most certainly does not justify a permanent deployment of any sort. China In Round 3, Con gave several recent examples of China's determination to settle disputes peacefully, and their refusal to escalate conflict when provoked. Pro did not respond to this, and so we can take it as established. Pro claims that China is a threat to SEA, but has not provided any evidence of this whatsoever. The Chinese takeover of Tibet happened more than 60 years ago, under a different administration. In any case, the involvement of the Chinese in Tibet was very different from the current situation in SEA. In Round 3, Con showed that ASEAN countries have been committed by treaty to a nuclear-free-zone for over twenty years. Pro ignores this evidence and argues that SEA will need to develop nuclear weapons ""to defend themselves from Chinese dominance"". This is absurd. Pro hasn't provided even the slightest evidence for this claim, and it doesn't make sense anyway. China and ASEAN have a strong and peaceful relationship How would a US military presence in SEA ""balance"" China and increase peace? Pro doesn't really explain. They say they provided evidence that the US is far more trusted than China in SEA, but this is untrue. In Round 2 they said ""Pew Polls show that the major SEA countries overwhelmingly trust the U.S. more than they trust China."" but their reference only compared China and Japan. Japan is not in SouthEast Asia. When I searched the Pew Polls, I found a global survey comparing opinions about China and the US. Only three SEA nations were included: Malaysia, Indonesia and The Philippines. Two of the three countries - Indonesia and Malaysia - rated China more favorably than they did the US. [5] Another Pew Poll showed that Indonesians have favorable opinions about China's growing economic power (62% positive), and 47% of Indonesians said it would be a good thing if China grew to have as much military power as the US (only 31% said it would be a bad thing). [6] ASEAN has a free trade agreement with China, but not with the US [7]. China is the biggest external provider to ASEAN of tourist arrivals (more than seven million a year, compared with less than three million from the US) and trade (more than $US 300 trillion dollars worth of trade a year. Trade with the US is less than two thirds of that) [8]. China and SEA already have a peaceful relationship where trade is flourishing. There have been border disagreements, but these have been handled without military intervention, as has been described in previous rounds. military spending has been constant Pro claims that not only China, but SEA is ""ramping up militarization"". But as the following charts show, expenditure as a proportion of GDP has been consistent for years, and at all times much lower than US military expenditure. https://www.debate.org... https://www.debate.org... The only thing that has changed in recent years is that the economies of China and ASEAN have been growing rapidly. This is a wonderful thing. Millions of people are being lifted out of poverty. Chinese aid to SEA Pro quotes a US opinion article that several countries in SEA are ""fast becoming Chinese client states"". This is just name calling. It's true that China provides substantial aid to Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos, Thailand and Myanmar, but there is no evidence that this aid involves intervention in internal affairs. In fact, the Chinese Eight Principles explicitly state that aid must be given without strings attached. [9] In the same round, Pro criticized China for not providing enough aid to the Philippines. Pro's position on aid is totally contradictory. Summary An increased US military presence in SEA would be unwelcome and without benefit for either SEA or the US. [1] http://www.nytimes.com... [2] http://www.chinausfocus.com... [3] http://oceansbeyondpiracy.org... [4] http://www.icc-ccs.org... [5] http://www.pewglobal.org... [6] http://www.pewglobal.org... [7] http://www.asean.org... [8] http://www.asean.org... [9] http://www.ide.go.jp..."	CON	890
890	S664d2873-Acf1b7de8	Resolved: The USFG should eliminate its nuclear armed ICBM force	Resolution: Resolved: The USFG should eliminate its nuclear armed ICBM force Context and Definitions: USFG= United States Federal Government ICBM force= Intercontinental Ballistic Missile force; the roughly 450 existing silos, staff, and facilities supporting the ICBM. Rules: 1. No forfeits 2. Any citations or foot/endnotes must be provided in the text of the debate 3. No new arguments in the final round. 4. Maintain a civil and decorous atmosphere 5. The artificial character constraints listed below MUST be adhered to. Rounds should telescope in length as the debate focuses on the salient points of debate. The total characters for this debate is equal to a three round debate but is spread over four rounds. 6. Pro accepts all definitions and waives his/her right to add definitions. Any dispute over definitions outside of R1 are to be resolved through argumentation within the debate. 7. BOP is shared. The winner of this debate is whichever side best supports their case. 8. R1 is for acceptance only. 9. Violation of any of these rules or of any of the R1 set-up merits a loss. Structure: R1. Acceptance R2. Constructive Cases R3. Constructive Cases R4. 6k character Rebuttals R5. 4k character Rebuttals	PRO	891
891	S616c1321-A1006a456	The U.S. Should Maintain its Alliance with Israel	"Counter arguments Similar interests My opponent would like to claim that Israel and the United States are similar in morals, rights and values. HOwever given the reality of Israel's racial laws and unfair discrimination this hardly seems to be the case. While the US Constitution treats all races and ethnicities equal, Israel has implemented laws that are 'jew-centered' and discriminatory towards those of gentile origin especially those of palestinian origin. Ex1) Israel creates Jewish only roads and Jewish only settlements. Explanation- This would have been analogous to America making White only roads and white only settlements. However America does not do that because it has better morales than israel. Ex 2) Israel has created apartheid walls and military checkpoints where Jews can travel freely but Palestinians are often detained for long periods of time, sometimes dying because they are unable to reach hospitals in emergency situations. Pregnant women and their unborn children have died in the shadows of those killing, dividing apartheid barriers. Explanation-This would have been analogous to America setting checkpoints along its border where whites can travel freely but mexicans are held back for long periods of time, sometimes dying because they cannot reach hospitals. Ex 3) Anyone with a Jewish mother can ""return"" to Palestine and become a citizen of Israel, even though they and their ancestors have not lived in the region for more than a thousand years. But Palestinians whose families lived in Palestine as recently as 1948 are not allowed to return, even if they have clear deeds to land that was stolen from them during the Nakba (Arabic for ""Catastrophe""). Explanation- This would have been analogous to America allowing those with white mothers to return to mexico and become a citizen of theUnited States even though they haven't lived in the region for very long while Mexicans who may have lived in America the whole time are not allowed to return to America, even if they had rights to the land that was stolen from them. Modern day America does not endorse racial laws and racism but Israel does. This indicates dissimilar interests about equality. American funding no doubt goes into the salaries of these racist lawmaakers thus promoting racism and discrimination! Palestinian laws My opponent would like to present Palestine as an oppressive state. While it is not a democracy, it does have basic human rights laws. ""The PA has guaranteed freedom of assembly to the Palestinian population, and its Legislation states this."" ""Many Jewish and Christian holy sites remain in areas controlled by the Palestinian National Authority. Under the Oslo Accords, Palestinians agreed to respect and protect religious rights of Jews, Christians, Muslims, and Samaritans by a) protecting the Holy Sites, 2) providing free access to the Holy Sites, and assuring freedom of worship and practice. a. Protection of the Holy Sites; b. Free access to the Holy Sites; and c. Freedom of worship and practice. "" Peace The very creation of israel has caused non stop turmoil in the Middle East and to this day it is the biggest ongoing military conflict. Israel forcefully displaced the indigenous Palestinian people and Israel and Palestine have been at conflict ever since. It seems the very existence of israel is causing the conflict and the only solution would be a peaceful disbandment of israel. Thus funding israel has created conflict rather than peace. In its report, Human Rights Watch said that, “Two of the three attacks Human Rights Watch investigated – in Beit Hanun and Jabalya – did not appear to target a military objective or were otherwise unlawfully indiscriminate. The third attack in Rafah was unlawfully disproportionate, if not otherwise indiscriminate. Unlawful attacks carried out willfully – that is, deliberately or recklessly – are war crimes.” This makes israel's attacks unjustified. Arguments Paramilitant groups on the rise due to America supporting israel's existence. In the Middle East Hamas is one of the many paramilitant groups created in response to Israel and Western support for it. "" Hamas Charter affirmed in 1988, that Hamas was founded to liberate Palestine, including modern-day Israel, from Israeli Occupation "" Thus Israel and the US funding it continues to provide the reason and justification for the existence of Hamas. In the USA As we all know America has suffered a horrendous terrorist attack on 9/11 at the hands of Al Qaeda. The reason AL Qaeda attacks America or even exists has been made very very clear. It is due America's continued support for Israel and terrorist groups will continue to terrorize Americans as long as America supports Israel. American unemployment, inflation, and tax $$ ""The Senate ended its session today before scampering home by (in effect) transferring a quarter billion dollars from unemployed Americans to Israel instead, so the nuclear-armed Superpower of the Middle East could improve its air defense system."" Thus we can see many Americans that could have been hired by the government to increase productivity in society instead are being unemployed and themoney gone to israel. "" On this basis the $84.8 billion in grants, loans and commodities Israel has received from the U.S. since 1949 cost the U.S. an additional $49,936,880,000 in interest. There are many other costs of Israel to U.S. taxpayers, such as most or all of the $45.6 billion in U.S. foreign aid to Egypt since Egypt made peace with Israel in 1979 (compared to $4.2 billion in U.S. aid to Egypt for the preceding 26 years). U.S. foreign aid to Egypt, which is pegged at two-thirds of U.S. foreign aid to Israel, averages $2.2 billion per year. There also have been immense political and military costs to the U.S. for its consistent support of Israel during Israel’s half-century of disputes with the Palestinians and all of its Arab neighbors. In addition, there have been the approximately $10 billion in U.S. loan guarantees and perhaps $20 billion in tax-exempt contributions made to Israel by American Jews in the nearly half-century since Israel was created. Even excluding all of these extra costs, America’s $84.8 billion in aid to Israel from fiscal years 1949 through 1998, and the interest the U.S. paid to borrow this money, has cost U.S. taxpayers $134.8 billion, not adjusted for inflation. Or, put another way, the nearly $14,630 every one of 5.8 million Israelis received from the U.S. government by Oct. 31, 1997 has cost American taxpayers $23,240 per Israeli."" As we can see Israel has costed America tremendous amounts of taxpayer money and increased debt. One final thing I'd like to mention before ending my argument is the concept of root cause analysis to the problems addressed above. To address my point, I will use the human body, immune system, and parasites as anaglogies to Middle East, Paramilitary groups, and israel respectively. ( I'm not trying to call Israel a parasite, it's just that using this analogy requires one party to be anaglogous to an infection)One day the human body gets a parasite infection and the immune system responds to this infection but the immune system causes damage in the process. There are 2 solutions we can take to this problem. We can either do as my opponent would suggest and try to protect the body from the immune system by aiding the parasite against the immune system or we can use root cause analysis and solve the root of the problem which would be in this case, Israel. Instead of helping the parasite. we get rid of the parasite, then no immune response to the parasite is needed and no more harm to the body done by either the parasite or the immune system. The reason I propose this solution is because I expect my opponent to address the issue of paramilitary groups by trying to help Israel which caused their formation in the first place and continually gives them reason to exist. http://www.thehypertexts.com... http://en.wikipedia.org... http://en.wikipedia.org... http://en.wikipedia.org... https://www.google.com... http://www.ifamericansknew.org... http://www.dailykos.com...#"	CON	892
892	S616c1321-A5975e88f	The U.S. Should Maintain its Alliance with Israel	Resolved: The U.S. should maintain its alliance with Israel Definitions U.S. - United States of America. Should - ought to. Maintain - continue existence. Alliance - a formal agreement or treaty between two or more nations to cooperate for specific purposes. Israel - the Middle Eastern country on the Mediterranean Sea. Rules 1. BOP is shared. 2. Con has the option to begin in the next round or allow me to begin first in Round 2 if he wishes. 3. No trolling/semantics/kritiks. 4. Maintain a civil atmosphere. 5. My opponent agrees to all definitions. Let's do it ;)	PRO	893
893	S616c1321-A7fbc9100	The U.S. Should Maintain its Alliance with Israel	"Even though I will comply with new terms my opponent has presented and will use pictures to clear, it is important to realize my opponent has made terms for the debate which I accepted and is now requesting new terms of me even after I have accepted. This would be like making terms for a contract and once signed requesting new terms of the person who agree to the contract before the terms were given. When I say Middle Eastern countries I will be reffering to Middle Eastern countries EXCEPT israel. It also seems that my opponent has warped my arguments into something completely different and based his argument on his warped version of my argument rather than my original argument so I will deal with that issue accordingly in my arguments and counterarguments below. It seems that my opponent has overlooked my final statement of when pro says con has completely missed the point of this argument, and yet the final statement indicates that America is not promoting human rights in the Middle East but rather promoting the opposite of discrimination but funding israel, it completely deals with the initial point of America 'promoting human rights' by countering my opponent's point and showing it's instead promoting the opposite. Next my opponent tries to claim ""Con has to admit that they are *far* better than those of Jordan, Syria, Yemen ..."" which I find quite horrifically offensive. Nowhere have I admit anything of such nature in fact I clearly posted an argument disproving that using Palestine as an example. This argument, in addition to showing that I think the Middle East countries around Israel are better than Israel, also goes back to Pro's first point about 'America spreading democratic values' by showing funding a racist israel destroys freedom values in the Middle East. In conclusion my main points about Israel being racist and Palestine(which is an exmaple of Middle East country)having human rights goes to show America funding israel is destroying human rights values in the Middle East such as shown by Palestine while promoting racism in Israel which completely addresses the point pro tries to state I am missing and it also refutes pro's offensive assumption that I think Middle Eastern countries are worse off than israel. Next my opponent tries to claim USA funding israel will make imperfections disappear when in fact I clearly showed Us funding is promoting racism and discrimination. Since my opponent is yet to counter my argument that funding israel is condoning racism, it would be premature to make claims that US funding would cause racial laws to be abondoned because those claims would have to be based on the assumption US funding isn't condoning racism. My opponent next claims Palestine is irrelavent. My opponent had earlier tried to claim that israel had better rights than Middle Eastern nations so in addition to needing to show israel is bad I must show other Middle Eastern countries as good to support my argument that Midle Eastern nations are better than israel. Instead of listing out all the rights of ALL the other I choose to use Palestine as an example because the Middle East conflict is often seen as Israel vs Palestine. The only time Gaza was mentioned in my argument wasabout the genocides israel is commting. And the only time my opponent mentions gaza is here So essentially his counterargument to my explaining of the gaza strip genocide is simply that gaza has less rights than israel. I would imagine most readers would be shocked to find gaza supposedly having fewer rights justifies israels' attack. The reason I do not believe this is a reason to support israel is because this would be quite like an invader seizing a native's land and before the native fight a revolutionary war to reclaim his land, a supporter of the invader decides to force peace to allow a zionist imperialist ensure conquered land remains conquered from the aboriginals. I would imagine most readers would support the native over the conquerer in this case. Again the only true peace and possibly permanet end to the conflict would be a peacful disbandment of israel which would require US to withdraw aid because peace would truly be achieved if the invader gave back everything that was taken from the native. My opponent then warps and then claims my argument about paramilitant groups is entirely based off of the fact that the alliance should have never been created in the first place. and yet only the beggining of my argument which was acting as a prelude/background was giving information about how the alliance has caused problems since its creation and that prelude/background introduced why the alliance would CONTINUOUSLY cause problems. Also it's noteworthy that my opponent only addresses terrorist/militant groups in Middle East around Israel and ignores how these groups have hurt American civilians especially during 9/11 And as shown America's continued support hurts Americans and of course it is understandable that my opponent would try to evade mentioning the amount of suffering America hs recieved as it is difficult to refute. My Opponent seems to believe that if America cut off support for israel then Israel would be certainly doomed. However given common sense and logic it is unlikely israel would simply allow its civilians to be slaughtered . America continuously borrows money from China and other foreign governments and a lot of this money goes to israel. Israel being the first country to recognize People's republic of China can obviously borrow money from China and would obviously rather do that than simplay allow itself to be slaughtered by Palestinians as dictated common sense. This would solve the problem of terrorist attacks in the USA and the continuous US debt problem and unemployment problem without causing israelites to suffer. Although Israel's continued existence would still cause paramilitary groups in the Middle East. If given the extraordinarily unlikely situation Israel could not garner sympathy from other nations or enter an economic relationship with the Chinese and loan money it could alternatively resort to a peaceful disbandment. Israel would simply in this case come in terms with Middle Eastern nations and paramiltary groups that if they do not attack Israel then it will peacefully disband itself. This would be acceptable to Middle Eastern nations and paramilitant groups because if they were to attack Israel as it disbanded then it might garner sympathy for other nations to fund israel and allow it to exist. This would prevent Israelites from being slaughtered because they are peacfully disbanding. This would be the most prefferable outcome because Military conflict in the MIddle East between Israel and other nations will no longer exist once israel is peacefully disbanded. So whether Israel relies on other nations like China or disbands itself peacefully if USA withdraws support it is most likely going to follow a peaceful outcome as peace as indicated above would be best possible for all nations in the Middle East. Thus it's critically unlikely nations would follow an unbeneficial path to war should USA withdraw. I have already explained in the upper paragraph why USA withdrawing it's support would be unlikely to lead to conflict but rather a disolution of militant activity such as 9/11 type militant activities. However I'm shocked that my opponent is comparing funding through forced taxing a militant nation to donating to charity. A key difference between charity and tax. https://philanthropy.com... Tax is forced and everyone must pay regardless of whether he/she like where it goes or not. Charity is only given by those who really support a cause. Also taxes are mandatory for everyone regardless of wether or not taxes hurt people. However charity is generally given by those rich enough to afford to give it and are not hurt by giving it. When my opponent compares taxes to charity it completely ignores the negatitivy of taxes and unemployment. My opponent seems to believe funding israel is supporting humans rights when it in fact destroying rights that already existed in the Middle East through Israelite racism. It's important to compare this to a dark period of history when a similar dark thinking like this was used. During the colonization of Africa in the 1800s Europeans who at that time on paper made slavery illegal claimed to be going to africa to 'abolish' slavery in Africa and 'promoting' enlightment values in Africa. They invaded and conquered Africa from the African people and kidnapped, raped, and blackmailed Africans into blackmail labor which was techinically not slavery under European paper laws. . https://e.edim.co... people to pay taxes to support such an imperialism as in the 1800s would as I imagine be atrocicous for non-white supremacist readers. In the same way forcing people to pay taxes for zionist imperialism under the claim of spreading human rights on paper but in reality supporting oppression and destroying already existing rights is not something many nonjewish sumpremacists would support. Again with root cause anaylsis which I addressed in my previous argument the solution to problems in the Middle East is solved by solving the root of the problem and not suppressing symptoms of suffering. My opponent overlooking root cause analysis is overlooking a major concept of problem solving."	CON	894
894	S616c1321-Aafbc6abf	The U.S. Should Maintain its Alliance with Israel	"Alrighty then. Allow me to lay out my case for the affirmative. C1) Similar Interests The U.S. and Israel have morals, rights, and values that reflect each other. What is unique about Israel is that it holds values that are humane when compared with its neighboring countries. Israel has many of the same freedoms that are given in the U.S. Constitution, such as freedom of speech, freedom of religion, and freedom of assembly[1]. It can be described as a ""monument of democracy and stability in a region where’s there’s been little of either""[2]. Since the U.S. holds these values, rights, and morals as important, it has a reason to strengthen other countries such as Israel in order to promote them and keep them existent and alive in a world where rights are often abused. If we were to cut our support, Israel would be weakened and thus more likely to be overrun by surrounding Arab states that do not share these basic human rights. Saudi Arabia is regarded as one of the countries with the lowest political rights and civil liberties[3]. It along with Israel's neighbors, Egypt, Syria, Jordan, Iraq, and Palestine are all regarded as ""not free"" with limited rights in each. Saudi Arabia has serious problems with human trafficking, discrimination against women, lack of freedom of religion or speech, and executions of homosexuals[4]. Many of these things can be said for surrounding Arab theocratic states with severe problems. That being said, the strengthening and promotion of these interests are critical in the Middle East, and ought to be acknowledged by the U.S. through an alliance. Political influence has worked before, and can work with Israel and its neighboring countries too. C2) Peace One of the major goals of surrounding Arab countries is to destroy Israel. They have refused to negotiate on treaties and have allowed groups such as Hamas's organization to repeatedly launch rockets into Israel. The IDF has reacted with counter attacks as a means of self-defense, in order to keep Hamas's group away from their country. Israel has had a history of attempts to establish peace with help from the U.S. Their Declaration of Independence reads: ""We appeal in the very midst of the onslaught launched against us now for months to the Arab inhabitants of the state of Israel, to preserve peace and participate in the upbuilding of the state on the basis of full and equal citizenship and due representation in all its provisional and permanent institutions. We extend our hand to all neighboring states and their peoples in an offer of peace and good neighborliness, and appeal to them to establish bonds of cooperation and mutual help with the sovereign Jewish people settled in its own land. The State of Israel is prepared to do its share in a common effort for the advancement of the entire Middle East.""[5] In the past, there have been many attempts to establish peace from Israel, including Egypt-Israel Peace Treaty in 1979[6] and the Israel-Jordan Peace Treaty in 1994[7]. The U.S. has historically encouraged these treaties and has made sure that both sides agree to them. However, these instances of peace often exist for short periods of time before violence erupts again. Since peace in the area is something that would be beneficial to everyone, Israel needs America's help through alliance to further work towards establishing peace with the help of Israel. They need the U.S.'s support to be that layer of stability in which a violent society is discouraged and peace is the top priority, as the U.S. has made in the past. [1] http://www.state.gov... [2] http://nypost.com... [3] https://freedomhouse.org... [4] http://en.wikipedia.org... [5] http://www.aish.com... [6] http://en.wikipedia.org... [7] http://en.wikipedia.org..."	PRO	895
895	S388394f5-A27fb9820	Resolved: a nation's citizens' rights ought to take precedence over its security.	Hello debaters and voters, In this last round of the debate, I will be presenting my closing arguments. Though I would like to respond to my opponent regarding what he stated in the previous round (R4), I do not have time to do so. Notice that throughout the round, I have sufficiently routed my opponent's claims and applied my own arguments extensively. The only place I find my opponents arguments, much less them being applied in a major way, is in his opening arguments. My opponent oft attempts to refute my claims, but I have shown how his refutations are either mislead or illogical. I want to draw you, the voter, out of all the muddle of contentions, applications, and sources and give you a look at the whole debate; a look at the forest instead of the individual trees, if you will. My opponent's motion is violating basic human rights, just to try to provide a security method, which is not even working! My opponent also pushes that a country's sole purpose is to protect the lives of her people. I say that a country has a duty to protect the rights of her people. In a Utopia, a country could protect the lives of its people without becoming corrupt and abusive of those rights. As you all know, we do not live in a Utopia. Thus, almost everytime a government takes the security of their people solely into their hands (cough communisms cough) that government ends up abusing the people and their rights, due to corruption. Therefore, I affirm the resolution: a nation's citizens' rights ought to take precedence over its security. Thanks you for this long and arduous debate, TheRussian! Thank you for reading through this, voter, and please vote for who you though upheld their side of the resolution the best. Thanks again! ~arrowjaw	PRO	896
896	S388394f5-A2b503923	Resolved: a nation's citizens' rights ought to take precedence over its security.	Hello Debaters, I welcome you to this debate, which has the resolution: Resolved: a nation's citizens' rights ought to take precedence over its security. In this debate, the Pro/For/Affirmative debater will be stating that the resolution is correct; that it is true. He/she will be stating that citizens' rights are more important than national security. The Con/Against/Negative debater will be stating that the resolution is not correct; that it is false. He/she will be stating that a nation's security is more important than the rights of the citizens. I welcome you to bring your own definitions and interpretations of the resolution, as those make debates unique. We must, however, have rules. 1. No kritiks 2. No trolling 3. No unsupported evidence (that is not widely known; use common sense) all unsupported evidence is considered bogus 4. Respect everyone 5. One forfeit round allowed, no more. Keep in mind that you are giving your opponent more time and chance to place forth his arguments. Structure of the Round: In this debate, the first round (1st) will be acceptance, thanks, questions, etc... The second (2nd) will be opening arguments, no responses. The third (3rd) will be responses to opening arguments (rebuttals). The fourth round (4th) will be responses to the responses in the third round (3rd). The fifth round (5th) will be closing arguments. To the debater(s): Please do your research before the debate. Let's keep this clean as well, no cursing or vulgarities. Also, I would prefer that we keep theology out of the debate, thanks. To the voter(s): Please vote on this debate! Read the entirety through before voting.	PRO	897
897	S388394f5-A76f3fd9f	Resolved: a nation's citizens' rights ought to take precedence over its security.	Hello debaters and voters, In this response to my opponent’s response to my opening arguments, we have a lot to cover. So let us get to it. In his first response to my contention one, my opponent states that surveying and compiling data on people does not affect their everyday lives. I have two responses for this: 1: How would you (the voter) feel if someone you have never heard of walked into your room and began rifling through your belongings? That sounds unpleasant doesn’t it? Just because it causes no direct harm to you does not mean that your liberty is not oppressed. 2: My opponent does not even address how the compilation of data not only violates the rights of freedom (see 1) but can also break the security of person and a right to life (See original Contention I). My opponent then agrees, “…there is a risk of the data being abused…” but then dismisses it because it has no evidence. This is a logical assertion, thus, my claim does not require empirical evidence as I have given sufficient logic to support it; I demand a reasonable response if my opponent wishes to rout my claim sufficiently. In his next response, my opponent tries to make Stalin out as a hero, pointing out the good things he has done. In the very article that my opponent uses it shows Stalin to be a cruel and ruthless dictator: “[The economic progress that Stalin dreamed of for Russia] came at the cost of losing many human lives.” “He introduced the policy of collectivized agriculture due to which, the land was taken away from peasants, reducing them to the status of serfs again.” In these two quotes from the article my opponent used, the author condemns Stalin as a dictator who is not afraid to kill his people to accomplish his goals. But wait, there’s more: “[Stalin] has been held responsible for the Soviet famine of 1932-33, in which millions of people lost their lives.” The Wikipedia article on Stalin states that: “After the Soviet Union dissolved, evidence from the Soviet archives also became available, containing official records of 799,455 executions…around 1.7 million deaths in the Gulag and some 390,000 deaths during kulak forced resettlement-with a total of about 2.9 million officially recorded victim in these categories.” (https://en.wikipedia.org...) History.com says: “[Stalin] ruled by terror, and millions of his citizens died during his brutal reign.” “Once in power, [Stalin] collectivized farming and had potential enemies executed or sent to forced labor camps.” (http://www.history.com...) The BBC iWonder says: “[Stalin’s] regime of terror caused the death and suffering of tens of millions.” (http://www.bbc.co.uk...) As we can see, Stalin was a man who violated all of the fundamental rights of humans just because he tried to make Russia a more robust and secure nation. My opponent then wants me to provide evidence for the fact that North Korea has cut itself off and abused its people. Thought I would dispute this as common knowledge to anyone with the slightest awareness of the world, I will provide evidence anyways. The nominal GDP (gross domestic product) per capita for the USA is $54,629 USD, meaning that each person makes an average of $54,000 a year. In North Korea, the GDP is $621 USD. This means that the average person makes on $600 per year. To put this into perspective, a McDonalds part-time employee makes $150-$200, a week. This means that a McDonalds employee makes 1/3 of the yearly salary of the average North Korean, every week. (https://en.wikipedia.org...) (https://en.wikipedia.org...) Human Rights Watch says the following about North Korea: “North Korea remains among the world’s most repressive countries. All fundamental freedoms have been severely restricted…” “A 2014 UN Commission of Inquiry found that abuses in North Korea were without equal in the contemporary world. They include extermination, murder, enslavement, torture, imprisonment, rape, forced abortions, and other sexual violence.” If you (the voter) need more evidence than this, see the Wikipedia article on North Korea. (https://en.wikipedia.org...) In his next response, my opponent states that I failed to establish a link between security and rights when I said: “Therefore when countries value security over rights, the[y] eventually slip into corruption and abuse of those rights.” I assert that the main point of this statement is a correlation between rights and security. As I have proven both in rounds II, I and now in this one, when a country values security too much it ends up abusing the rights it was made to protect. This is WHY countries should assess citizens’ rights over obsessive security. My opponent then brings up the example of the USA, which I live in. He says that the USA is an example of how security can take precedence and rights not be abused. I disagree with this assertion. The majority of America’s military power operates forward in the world; this means that not all of the security is focused on the homefront. The people of America have been increasingly agitated with the government’s observation of people, which is a big topic in our upcoming presidential elections. Another point my opponent misinterpreted was that having a large military means abuse of rights. That is not what I was asserting. I contended that a government obsessed with security would result in a large military. The USA uses most of its military not to protect at home and to control the people, like the CCCP/USSR and the DPR of North Korea, but to operate forward in the world. Thus, my opponent’s example is refuted. In the next response, my opponent makes the assertion that just because terrorist attack have not decreased since the implementation of surveillance techniques, does not mean that the monitoring methods are not working. To back up the claim he makes an analogy that just because we have had advancements in medicine does not mean we stop getting sick. This is “false logic”. There has been a marked decrease in death from illnesses that once ravaged the human population, and live expectancy has risen to an all-time high. My opponent then relates the surveillance methods to security cameras, saying that they have shown a marked decrease in crime by 50%. Once again, the monitoring techniques have shown no significant, marked reduction in crime and have only cost government massive amount of money. In his final paragraph, my opponent tries to disrelate my first two contentions from the resolution of the debate, by saying that I am not showing WHY it is bad. I am doing precisely that. I am showing why surveillance of civilians is bad. I do not know if my opponent missed my contentions on how the surveillance of citizens violates inherent rights and can lead to the violation of the rights to security of person and life? Did my opponent miss my contention on how governments, which value security over rights turn corrupt and abusive of those rights? This entire debate has been the showing of WHY security over rights is bad. My opponent then goes into semantics, arguing what terminology I should be using and how my incorrect terminology makes my arguments invalid. This is the typical case of looking at a tree and not at the whole forest. My opponent is trying to tear down my responses without looking at them on a full level. I have consistently proven that when security takes precedence over rights, those rights are often abused. I have successfully refuted my opponent’s argument against that claim and have refuted the arguments for his allegations. For those reasons I urge you to vote for the Affirmative/Pro/For motion: “Resolved: a nation citizens’ rights do take precedence over security.”	PRO	898
898	S388394f5-A6063447f	Resolved: a nation's citizens' rights ought to take precedence over its security.	"Hello fellow debaters and voters, I would first like to thank my opponent, TheRussian, for excepting my debate. I am excited to begin. First and foremost, I feel that it is only right to define my role in this debate. In this debate I am the Pro/For/Affirmative; therefore I must affirm the resolution: Resolved: a nation's citizens' rights ought to take precedence over its security. Thus, my stance is that the citizens' rights' importance surpasses that of the nation's security. Definitions: In any debate, it is important to have definitions so that not fallacies of ambiguity or equivocation occur. As my opponent has not, as of yet, implemented any definitions of his own, he automatically accepts mine. Nation: ""A relatively large group of people organized under a single, usually independent government; a country."" [http://www.thefreedictionary.com...] Rights: In the resolution, the word rights is pretty vague, so I will define it as human rights. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that: ""Everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of person."" (Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Article 3, Line I) [http://www.ohchr.org...] Citizen: ""A person who legally belongs t o a country and has the rights and protection of the state"" [http://www.merriam-webster.com...] Security: ""The state of being protected or safe from harm."" [http://www.merriam-webster.com...] Resolution Analysis: In the resolution analysis, I will help the voter make more sense of the resolution and the debate. I: The resolution does not give a particular country to which the resolution applies, thus my opponent and I must defend all states. II: The resolution does not say that to grant rights, a nation should throw security out the window, neither does it say that to grant security, rights must be obliterated. III: The resolution states that the security of the nation itself takes precedence, not that of the individual citizens. My Stance: Though my position in this round is already apparent, I want to clarify some ambiguity. I am not arguing for the complete riddance of security. In fact, I am arguing for security. I am arguing for the safety of the rights of the citizens. Ronald Reagan once said: ""Government's first duty is to protect the people, not run their lives."" Thus, my stance is that national security is important, but retaining the purpose of government, to protect the people and not controls them, but the rights of the men and women in the country are more important. Contentions: The contentions are the meat of my arguments; they are the reasons you should vote for my side of the motion. I: Valuing Security Over Rights Results in the Violation of Rights When governments use surveillance techniques to view the private lives of citizens, they are violating the very rights they were instituted to uphold. When governments compile personal information on citizens, security of person is breached and violated. If the government turned corrupt, an agent defected and took information with him/her, or another government/organization hacked into the databases, the information could be used to harm individuals in significant ways, violating the right to life. Surveying and compiling data on people violates their liberty. Their private lives are being observed by unknown people. Thus, when a government tries to monitor its citizen's actions, it violates the security of person right, and possible the right of life. It also violates the right of liberty. II: Countries That Uphold Security Over Rights Abuse Those Rights Many countries over the years have tried to make themselves as secure as possible. Unfortunately, these countries turn into authoritarian powers which utterly abuse power and the rights of citizens. Two example of this includes North Korea and the Soviet Union. In Russia, after WWI, the government became highly centralized, trying to protect its people from hostile neighbors. As a result, however, the living condition of people went down, and the corruption in the new Soviet Union went up. In the country of North Korea, the same issue has occurred. The state has tried to cut itself off from the outside world, but has only managed to all but destroy its population. Therefore, when countries value security over rights, the eventually slip into corruption and abuse of those rights. III: The Systems of 'Spying' Currently Implemented Have Done Little to Limit Crime Since the 9/11 Attacks (I am sure we are all familiar with this), after which the USA and other countries implemented serious security measures, in the USA alone twenty-seven terrorist attacks have occurred, leaving a total of ninety-three dead and an unknown number affected. These attacks include the 2015 San Bernadino Shooting, which left fourteen people dead; the 2015 Charleston Church Shooting, which left nine people dead; the 2012 Sikh Temple Shooting, which left six people dead; and the 2009 Fort Hood Shooting, which left thirteen people dead. These are the shootings that have occurred solely in the US, not including the recent attack in Europe. These facts show that the surveillance of citizens is not working. Instead of ending crime and saving lives, the governments of the world are wasting money, resources, and human capital to violate the rights of innocent people. Trillions of dollars that could have been diverted to more important projects have been used to observe people all around the world and these dollars have paid for nearly nothing. Conclusion: Thus, the surveillance of innocent citizens to increase security has done virtually nothing to help the rates of crime and to curb violence. We have also seen that when countries try to enhance security, they trample the rights of citizens. Therefore, I urge you, the voter, to vote for my side of the resolution."	PRO	899
899	Sd70f9b95-A33885094	Xbox One's downsides outweigh its benefits	"Unfortunately, Microsoft has made it very clear a broadband connection is required for Xbone to properly function. Xbox Wire specifically states that ""Because every Xbox One owner has a broadband connection, developers can create massive, persistent worlds that evolve even when you’re not playing"".[1] This is, in the eyes of Microsoft, a key selling point for the console. As to the idea of a 'limited features' version, that is speculation and cannot be really confirmed or denied. Just because a program has been solid in the past does not mean it cannot be breached, given the proper motivation. While you note the Sony online outage prevented online multiplayer from being accessed, the key difference with Xbone is that all gaming would be prevented from being accessed. You could still play any PS3 game offline during the outage, but with Xbone, under a similar circumstance, all gaming functionality would be lost. That is the issue - wheras an online outage on any other console would only affect online access, and online outage on Xbone would affect all access. As to the GameStop bit, it is very clear the point of the Xbone DRM is to eliminate used game sales in all ways. If Microsoft has no intention of doing it, why include it? And excluded territories should have a bearing on this debate; it may not be a disandvantage to your or me, but it sure is to them. XO is an entertainment device that does not have access to work or leisure activities of it's user unless it is on and is actively inputing information. Fortunately there is the simple concept of shutting down a computer[simple_shutdown_no_tracking]. I doubt that would make XO not work for 24 hours after turning on. For that matter I doubt that using Playstation Network on PS3 or Xbox Live on Xbox360 is any safer. Once again, the 24-hour check is actually confirmed by Microsoft. It is a core feature of the Xbone DRM because it confirms all downloaded games meet Xbone requirements. As for price, $499 is a lot to ask for any console, but with the bad features I mention, it is clear it is a much poorer product than Sony or Nintendo are offering. While you can mainly point at speculation (the games might be good, backend online might not be needed on all games, 24-hour countdown might not be real), I am giving facts - the price is higher, the console must have constant broadband internet, DRM is restrictive, and the Kinect is always on. Given the current facts, the only way to judge the console is clear - the Xbone has more downsides than benefits. As to your last comment, I am not anti-Microsoft or pro-Sony. I am first and foremost a Nintendo gamer. I own both the original Xbox (one of my favorite consoles) and the Xbox 360 (a very good console in its own right), and haven't owned a Sony console aside from the PSP and the original PlayStation. To me, the issue is not Sony v. Microsoft - it is of quality. A good way to judge downsides are to see what the rest of the market are doing, and no other console is utilizing the downsides of Xbone. To conclude, I will first note arguments my opponent has not acknowledged or has ceded: *1.5 Mbps is twice the speed most broadband users receive *119 million Americans do not have broadband at all *Microsoft could render your Xbone useless by shutting off the Xbone servers *The first sale doctorine is a principle of copyright law *Microsoft is a member of PRISM, and has been since 2007 *Microsoft has restrictive patents relating to Kinect, that could limit how many people can watch or participate in Xbone activities like watching Netflix *Xbone is more expensive than PS4 and Wii U *No other console has always online, DRM, or spy-cameras *PS4 has a greater graphical capacity *PS4 is region-free, while Xbone is region-locked As is clear from my arguments and from the facts, the downsides of Xbone are tremendous. The DRM, online, Kinect, and price are all downides and inferior when compared to the competition consoles, the PS4 and Wii U. My opponent has not refuted these issues, but has attempted to make up for it with software value. Unfortunately, software is not proven at this point, but all of my issues are proven. Therefore, I would highly urge you to vote Pro. References: 1. http://news.xbox.com..."	PRO	900
900	Sd70f9b95-A2ac55d67	Xbox One's downsides outweigh its benefits	"First off, I would like to thank my opponent for accepting this debate. Good luck to us both! To begin, my argument will rest on four main points, each of which is a major issue that the Xbox One (which I will call the 'Xbone' to save space) has: required online connection, digital rights management (DRM), always-on Kinect, and price. The first issue, required online access, is a major downside for the Xbone. As we all know at this point, the Xbone requires you to check in online at least once every 24 hours. If you do not do that, you will not be able to even play offline, single-player games. This online connection is required to be broadband, with a preferred minimum rate of 1.5 Mbps. According to TechNewsDaily, 1.5 Mbps is twice the speed that most broadband users receive. They also note that ""Interestingly, although not checking in will prevent you from gaming, it will not cut off your Blu-ray or TV access, which should give you some idea of the Xbox One’s priorities."".[1] Further, broadband itself is actually not as common as you might think - 119 million Americans do not have broadband access, according to the FCC.[2] Further, there are also major issues with the always online aspect from Microsoft's end - let's say a hacker breaks into the Xbone servers. When this happened to Sony, they had to shut online off for 24 days - with the Xbone, you would not be able to play any games for nearly a month! Or, when Microsoft releases a new system in 7-8 years, they could force you to switch by shutting off the Xbone servers. Simply put, this is unacceptable. The second issue, digital rights management (DRM), is even worse than the first. Microsoft wants to control where, when, and how you play your games. Because the discs become worthless after installation, you cannot exercise your right to lend, trade, or sell your game. This pre-empts the doctorine of first sale, a long-standing copyright rule that establishes that when you buy a copyrighted work, you own it. You have the right to do keep it for yourself, lend it, or sell that copy to someone else, at which point you have no more right to that copy. On the other hand, your right to that work only extends to that copy, and you can’t make copies of the book and sell them to other people. To give an example, if you go to the store and buy a new book, it is your book. You can do what you want with it - you can keep it for as long as you want, lend it to a friend, or sell it. The publishing company cannot tell you when you can read it, where you can read it, or who you can sell it to. That sounds pretty fair, and it is very fair - both sides are protected. Unfortunately, that just isn’t good enough for publishing companies, who want to get paid whenever anyone buys a game, new or used, as opposed to when someone buys it new. This is a violation of your rights as a consumer, and a distortion of copyright law, because the point of copyright law is encourage production of new, quality works, not to make publishing companies as much money as possible. The third issue is Kinect. Aside from my disdain for 'video games' with no controllers, Kinect is always on. Although Microsoft says that the Kinect is only listening for the phrase 'Xbox On', Microsoft has been a member of PRISM (the NSA surveillance program) since 2007, when they were the first major internet company to join it.[4] Additionally, Microsoft has filed patents to limit the usage of apps to a certain number of people, meaning if you bring your extended family over to your house to watch a movie on Netflix, Kinect could theoretically pull the plug for having too many people in the room.[5] This is just more evidence of how Xbone is designed to harm the consumer and their rights. The final issue I will raise is price. Xbone costs $499 US dollars, a full $100 above the Sony Playstation 4 and $150 more than Nintendo's Wii U. To warrant that price, Xbone needs to be far-and-above better than the competition - unfortunately, it is not. None of the other consoles have always-online, DRM, or spying cameras. Wii U offers graphics that are equal or better than those of the Xbox 360 (a fantastic console), and PS4's graphical capacity actually beats Xbone![6] Further, PS4 does not require you to purchase their online package in order to access online apps like Netflix or Hulu or streaming services, and PS4 is region-free - Xbone requires you to purchase their online to access apps and streaming, and is region-locked.[7] Quite simply, why would I want to pay more for a product that violates my rightsand is infererior to the competition? To sum up - Xbone has very major concerns on all fronts, and is also the most expensive console out there. It's graphical capacity is inferior to PS4, and its DRM and online requirements are very restrictive. These are major downsides, and cannot be made up by any upside. References: 1. http://www.technewsdaily.com... 2. http://arstechnica.com... 3. http://en.wikipedia.org... 4. http://www.usatoday.com... 5. http://kotaku.com... 6. http://www.christiantoday.com... 7. http://www.cinemablend.com..."	PRO	901
901	Sd70f9b95-A9b4113ac	Xbox One's downsides outweigh its benefits	The resolution of this debate is simple - the downsides of Xbox One outweight its benefits. I will be arguing affirmative. The rules are: 1. Burden of proof is shared. Each side must prove their case. 2. Forfeiture of any round by either side results in a victory for the other side. 3. First round is for acceptance. 4. Round 2 is for opening arguments only. 5. Round 3 is a clash round. You can only rebut the arguments the opponent made in round 2, and you may not introduce new arguments. 6. Round 4 is for closing arguments. You can rebut arguments made in round 3 and sum up your case.	PRO	902
902	S3626497e-A966bfff1	Israel is morally justified in its attacks on Hamas	In order to determine what is a net benefit (making the action justified), we need to look at the positive effects compared to the negative ones. Positive effects: Saving lives. The main point my opponent has yet to refute is that Hamas is constantly attacking nonmilitary targets in Israel. If Israel doesn't destroy Hamas, Hamas will destroy Israel. Killing a few to save many more is by all means justified. Potential negative effects: First I'd like to point out that I agree that people being killed is sad. I value human life as much as my opponent. Innocent deaths in Gaza. What is key to understanding how Israel is justified is realizing that Hamas is in no way defending its people. If you require proof, look at the links I provided in one of my rebuttals. Hamas is simply using the civilians as it wages war on Jews. Jews are not waging war on Islam, it is but a few terrorists waging war on the Jews. These deaths, although unfortunate, are not the fault of the Jews, they are the fault of Hamas making the only reason the attacks wouldn't be justified invalid. Now to talk about the WW2 argument. To respond to your response A: Hamas is in no way defending its people, Hamas is a terrorist organization that is waging war on Judaism. B: Hitler wasn't powerful militarily or economically until he was given time to grow without being attacked, this is precisely what we're trying to avoid with Hamas. C: Hamas is not trying to solve any issues because Hamas is the issue, they are raiding innocent Israelis that aren't military targets. Israel's attacks are against military targets while Hamas is just killing Jews. In the end, this debate has been won by the affirmative because all 3 voting issues have been won by the affirmative. Israel's attacks are justified because without them, more people would be killed. Any casualties inflicted are simply the fault of Hamas. Finally, we cannot repeat the mistake that lead to WW2, we cannot stand by as Hamas grows in power. Thanks.	PRO	903
903	S3626497e-A656f2e1c	Israel is morally justified in its attacks on Hamas	Any casualty inflicted on civilians by Israel are the fault of Hamas, not Israel. Hamas uses civilians as shields to protect themselves. They hide rockets in schools! Israel is not waging this war because it is religious, Israel is simply accepting the fact that some civilian casualties are necessary BECAUSE HAMAS IS FORCING IT TO BE SO*. You completely missed my last point about Europe's mistake in WW2. If Israel allows Hamas to grow without even the threat of attack, Israel will soon be destroyed. I agree that not all Muslims are terrorists, but Hamas is a terrorist organization. I agree that people dying is wrong, but those casualties are the fault of Hamas, not Israel. If Israel needs to attack to ensure its safety, as it does, and the civilian casualties are the fault of Hamas, as they are, the attacks on Hamas are nothing if not justified. *http://www.ijreview.com... http://www.washingtonpost.com... http://www.thetower.org...	PRO	904
904	S3626497e-Ad6285f51	Israel is morally justified in its attacks on Hamas	We can not simply blame someone for just an action! Rebuttals: 1. Hamas just simply protects their nation, and they are not using civilians as shield, but they are protecting them and protecting their rights!. 2. Who knows those hidden rockets were owned by Hamas? maybe its kept there for showing a bad image of Hamas to the world. 3. Israel is forgetting the humanity, and they simple kill innocent people by blaming they are terrorists and they are part of Hamas. Your point of WW2 is totally different from this scenario, because of the following reasons; a. Hitler who is known the most dangerous terrorist in the 1940s, he was doing it for reason which was personal or maybe for power, while Hamas is doing so to protect their nation and they do not want power! b. They were powerful in terms of military, economic, and other resources though they wanted to occupy more countries and role on them, while Hamas is not doing so! c. Can you analyze how Philistine is destroyed by Israel brutal attacks? If you are agree that people is dying for wrong, then why should Israel continue their attacks on Philistine? Everyone knows that by attacking, only innocent people is killed, they can not kill Hamas! if they think they have the power, why don't they kill Hamas personally, rather than continuing brutal attacks? Hamas is defending their nation and country, though they need to sacrifice their civilians, just to protect their rights! If Israel stops their attacks on Hamas im sure Hamas will also find a way to solve these issues. Keeping in view all the above reasons and descriptions, Israel must stop their attacks because their attacks are not morally justified!	CON	905
905	Sdad21b0b-A1c5eafb	US should focus its resources on Africa.	I will argue that the US should focus much of its resources towards Africa. This involves.... 1. Investments 2. Military 3. Support Con will argue otherwise.	PRO	906
906	Sdad21b0b-A4692f342	US should focus its resources on Africa.	Case 1: Markets in Africa are booming Remember the late 1800's, with the dissolution of the Qing dynasty? A massive scramble to deal within the growing Asian markets turned into a full scale trade war. China is still one of the largest sources for raw materials and cheap labor, but the government has been having trouble with fierce competition with Africa. [1] A new scramble has begun. British firms have capitalized industries in Somalia and old British Africa[2]. China has been sending investments African nations for a while now[3]. France, Italy, and the Netherlands have already participated in the scramble. France is investing in Algeria and Mali [4], while the Dutch are showing huge intrest in CAR. The European Union has even decided to send a small army to CAR to protect their trade intrests[5]. Africa has the fastest growing economies in the world. Some countries like Ethiopia, have growth rates above 6% [6]!!!!! Almost every country has major investments in Africa besides the US. Besides a few companies along the gold coast, mainly Liberia[7], America is behind in the race. So here's what we need to do.... 1. Invest in growing markets, and refocus from China. Many people are finding labor in China more expensive then within our own country. This will yield much income, and send a few favors our way. 2. Stop sending so much money to Syria, Israel, and Korea, in the event of some hypothetical war[8], and start focusesing on the areas which really stand to benefit. Unrest in Africa hurts the globalized economy, and redirecting our humanitarian aid to Africa benefits the world. 3. We need to work our military through organizations like the EU and UN. By sending tactical, medical, and intelligence support we can gain more influence and ensure stability throughout Africa, which I already proved, is very profitable. I'm not advocating direct warfare though, but tactical aid. Africa has become so profitable. By focusing our resources on them, we help their markets and ours grow stronger. The worlds already noticed the potential, and its time we do as well. [1] http://www.cnn.com... [2] http://www.britishafrican.org... [3] http://www.chinaafricarealstory.com... [4] http://www.npr.org... [5] http://www.theguardian.com... [6]http://www.economist.com... [7] http://www.firestonenaturalrubber.com... [8] http://www.usaid.gov...	PRO	907
907	S73e1fffa-A10fb2c2e	The Benefits of Space Exploration outweigh its disadvantages	"The Resolution is: ""The benefits of space exploration outweigh its disadvantages."" I will be taking the Pro stance. In order for Pro to win, he will have to show that space exploration's benefits outweigh the disadvantages of space exploration. Furthermore, Pro will also have to provide evidence to why space exploration should continue to be pursued. In order for Con to win, they will have to show that space exploration's disadvantages outweigh the benefits of space exploration. Furthermore, Con will have to provide evidence to why space exploration should not be pursued. First round is acceptance. I wish my opponent luck in advance."	PRO	908
908	S1776cb0a-Af726e7ef	Texas could becomes its own nation	Thank you for accepting this Challenge, and yes those were the definitions I was leaning towards , Texas is as you stated before the Largest state in Mainland USA, for this reason Texas's economy would have the capability to surpass America's Economy with its own, doing more Exporting then Importing, because Texas is such a large state, it has a largely diverse climate, meaning Texas would have All Capabilities to survive on its own without any help from an county around it...	PRO	909
909	S1776cb0a-A85a329a4	Texas could becomes its own nation	"Unfortunately there are major flaws in your arguments. Economy The Texas economy is 36th out of 50 overall. Their debt per capita $8,711 8.3% unemployment 25% of adults do not have high school diplomas (50th) [1] You claim that Texas could stand on its own economically outside of the United States and that they might even surpass the United States when this is simply false. Texas's Gross ""National"" Product on the international scale is 15th overall but is second in the US by state. [2] The GNP of the US was $12 trillion in 2011 (adjusted) [3] while Texas's GNP was $1.3 trillion, 1/12th of the total US economy. The claim that Texas could surpass the US economy is unrealistic. Texas could not survive without any help from other countries. No country is self sufficient. Secession The United States government set a huge precedent in 1860 when they fought a long and bloody war to prevent states from leaving the Union. In order to become it's own country Texas would have to secede from the United States something that is not possible. ""I hold, that in contemplation of universal law, and of the Constitution, the Union of these States is perpetual."" - Abe Lincoln This precedent and view that the Union is perpetual was strongly set at the cost of hundreds of thousands of lives. The United States would go to war (if necessary) to keep Texas in the Union, a war that Texas would not be able to weather. Simply put, Texas's economy is not as good as my opponent claims it to be and leaving the Union would be impossible. The resolution reads ""Texas could becomes its own nation"" [sic] and I have shown that Texas cannot become its own nation. Thank you. [1] http://www.theatlantic.com... [2] http://en.wikipedia.org... [3] http://www.data360.org..."	CON	910
910	S1776cb0a-A42051130	Texas could becomes its own nation	Really, well there are also some flaws in your argument, Texas's Economy is ranked as the 2nd largest economy in the United States of America, Without Texas,America's Economy would sink, Furthermore, Texas has the second largest Population in America, second only to that of California, so if Texas, due to its ability in the 10th Amendment of the American Constitution, required all Men ages 18 and up to have Military Training, and be called into the ranks in times of war, Texas would be able to stand up to America, and secede,Thank you http://www.usatoday.com...	PRO	911
911	S1776cb0a-Ac26480d1	Texas could becomes its own nation	I put in very simple context, that Texas could become its own nation for several reasons as listed below 1 Texas has one of the best economies in The United States of America 2 with strong allies in Mexico, Texas could easily gain support for an independence movement 3 Texas, has a Governor, Rick Perry, who could lead the state of Texas into the delicate process of establishing a new nation. These are just a few reasons, Simply to establish the base of the Argument.	PRO	912
912	S1776cb0a-A67559b0e	Texas could becomes its own nation	"Yes, I already stated that Texas's economy was the second largest in the United States but even if it took its 1.3 trillion and walked that would leave the US with 10 trillion in GNP still. [1][3] While this would certaintly strike a blow to the US economy it would not as you say ""sink"" it. The oil and shipping industry would merely move over into New Orleans. Also your arguments seem to be based around the idea that Texas could take on any other single state on its own which is the case but militarily and economically it simply cannot stand up to the full might of all 49 remaining US states together. The US has 1.5 million active military personel [4] that take an oath to protect the United States and its Constitution during service. Even if Texas required military service they would be in service to the United States and not to the state of Texas meaning that this point is moot. This idea might have fit in 200 years ago in the early 1800's but now days state patriotism is much lower and very few people would choose to fight for Texas over the United States. The arguments stand. [1] http://www.theatlantic.com...... [2] http://en.wikipedia.org...... [3] http://www.data360.org...... [4] http://en.wikipedia.org..."	CON	913
913	Sceba7e7b-A490dcde5	Resolved: The United States of America should create coral reefs along its coastlines(Policy debate)	This debate is a rematch between Whiteflame and myself (TheJuniorVarsityNovice) on coral reefs, same rules as last time will apply; this is a policy debate with no kiritcs accepted. Unlike most debates about policy, the Burden of Proof will be equally shared. 10k character limit, the purpose of the debate shall primarily be fairness and education. Pro maintains the right to clarify his case to a reasonable extent and con maintains the right to say that a clarification is unfair and unreasonable. This debate will be concerned with a plan to implement coral reefs in the US, to win this debate I must show that the plan will benifit the status quo more than it will hurt it while con must do the opposite. Claims must be supported with credible citations, ones that are not will be considered as invalid by the judges. rounds will be as follows 1.) Acceptance 2.) first constructive speach/ counter arguments 3.) counter arguments 4.) rebutals 4,) conclusion, and why either of us should win ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- These may be some of my citations in the round: -First Affirmative Constructive will have these cites in order, in good faith I trust you won't open them until you accept. [1] http://tinyurl.com... [2] http://tinyurl.com... [3] n/a [4] will be conceded by opposition no need to cite [5] http://tinyurl.com... [6] http://tinyurl.com... [7] http://tinyurl.com... [8] http://tinyurl.com... [9] http://tinyurl.com... [10] http://tinyurl.com... [11] comes from world health organization [12] http://tinyurl.com... [13] http://tinyurl.com... --------------------------------------- My primary sources draws from alot of different studies, All of which I will now list: Sinderman, C.J., Ocean Pollution: Effects on Living Resources and Humans, CRC, p. 304 (1995). Soong, K. and T. Chen, Coral transplantation: Regeneration and growth of Acropora fragments in a nursery, Restoration Ecology, 11, 62-71 (2003). Unestam, T., On the host range and origin of the crayfish plague fungus, Reprt, Institute of Freshwater Research, Drottningholm, 49, 202-209 (1972). Unestam, T., The dangers of introducing new crayfish species, Freshwater Crayfish, 2, 557-561 (1975). Unestam, T. and D.W. Weiss, The host parasite relationship between freshwater crayfish and the crayfish disease fungus Aphanomyces astaci: Responses to infections by a susceptible and resistant species, Journal of general Microbiology, 60, 77-90 (1970). United Nations Environment Programme, Toxic Chemicals and Hazardous Waste, The State of the Environment, Global issues, Global Environmental Outlook (2000). http://www.unep.org......... United Nations Environment Programme, World Atlas of Coral Reefs, UNEP (2001). US Environmental Protection Agency, Condition of living resources, Condition of the MidAtlantic Estuaries, Mid-Atlantic Integrated Assessment (2000). http://www.epa.gov......... Weaver, A.J., O.A. Saenko. P.U. Clark and J.X. Mitrovica, Meltwater pulse 1A from Antarctica as a trigger of the Bolling-Allerod warm interval, Science, 299, 1709-1713 (2003). Wilkinson C.R. and R.W. Buddemeier, Global climate change and coral reef, Report of UNEPIOC-ASPEI-IUCN Global Task Team on Coral Reefs, IUCN 124 (1994). Williams E. and L. Bunkley-Williams, The worldwide coral reef bleaching cycle and related sources of coral mortality, Atoll Research Bulletin, 335, 1-71 (1990a,). Williams, E.H., and L. Bunkley-Williams, Helpline for giant clams, Nature, 345, 119 (1990b). Williams, E.H., L. Bunkley-Williams, E.C. Peters, B. Pinto-Rodriguez, R. Matos-Morales, A.A. Mignucci-Giannoni, K.V. Hall, J.V. Rueda-Almonacid, J. Sybesma, I. Bonnelly de Calventi and R.H. Boulon, An epizootic of cutaneous fibropapillomas in green turtle, Chelonia mydas of the Caribbean: Part of a panzootic? Journal of Aquatic Animal Health, 6, 70-78 (1994). Williams, E.H. and L. Bunkley-Williams, Caribbean marine major ecological disturbances. Infectious Diseases Review, 2, 110-127 (2000). Science, 294, 1655-1656 (2001). Nixon, S.W., Coastal marine eutrophication: A definition, social causes, and future concerns, Ophelia, 41, 199-219 (1995). Page, C., Coral diseases on the Great Barrier Reef, Australian Institute of Marine Science (2002). http://www.aims.gov.au......... Patz, J.A., P.R. Epstein, T.A. Burke and J.M. Balbus, Global climate change and emerging infectious diseases, Journal of the American Medical Association, 275, 217-223 (1996). Pauly, D., V. Christensen, J. Dalgaard, R. Froese and F. Torres, Fishing down marine food webs, Science, 279, 860-863 (1998). Pauly, D., V. Christensen and R. Froese, Fishing down aquatic food webs, American Scientist, 88, 46-51 (2000). Pauly, D., J. Alder, E. Bennett, V. Christensen, P. Tydemers and R. Watson, The future for Fisheries, Science, 302, 1359-1361 (2003). Porter, J.W. (ed.), The Ecology and Etiology of Newly Emerging Marine Diseases, Kluwer (2001). Powell, K., Eat your Veg, Nature, 426, 378-379 (2003). Reiswig, H.M., , In situ pumping activities of tropical Demospongiae, Marine Biology, 9, 38-50 (1971a). Reiswig, H.M., Particle feeding in natural populations of three marine Demospongiae, Biological Bulletin (Woods Hole), 141, 568-591 (1971b). Reiswig, H.M., Particle feeding in natural populations of three marine Demospongiae, Biological Bulletin (Woods Hole), 141, 568-591 (1971b). Reiswig, H.M., The spectrum of particulate organic matter in shallow bottom boundary waters of Jamaica, Limnology & Oceanography, 17, 341-348 (1972). Reiswig, H.M., Water transport, respiration, and energetics of three tropical marine sponges, Journal of Experimental Marine Biology and Ecology, 14, 231-249 (1974). Richardson, L., Coral diseases: What is really known? Trends in Ecology and Evolution, 1311, 438-443 (1998). Rinkevich, B., Restoration strategies for coral reefs damaged by recreational activities: The use of sexual and asexual recruits, Restoration Ecology, 3, 241-251 (1995). Rinkevich, B., Steps towards the evaluation of coral reef restoration by using small branch fragments, Marine Biology, 136, 807-812 (2000). Rose, C.S. and M.J. Risk, Increase in Cliona delitrix infestation of Montastrea cavernosa heads on an organically polluted portion of the Grand Cayman fringing reef, Marine Ecology, 6:345- 362 (1985). Rouse, I., The Tainos: Rise and decline of the people who greeted Columbus, Yale University Press (1993). Secretariat for the Pacific Community, Building capacity for Aquaculture in the Pacific: Ist SPC Aquaculture Meet, SPC Aquaculture Technical Papers (2002). http://www.spc.org.nc............ Shiganova, T.A., Invasion of the Black Sea by the ctenophore Mnemiopsis leidyi and recent changes in pelagic community structure, Fisheries Oceanography, 7, 305-310 (1998).	PRO	914
914	Se0cac17a-A5ca9f0f1	What political party has anarchists, Communists, rioters, as backers of its political agenda	"What political party has anarchists, Communists, rioters, as backers of its political agenda anarchist ,"" a person who promotes disorder or excites revolt against any established rule, law, or custom. "" The democrat party has become a party who's members have defined what the party stands for and its not a party that believes in law and order nor in a a civil society. No, the democrat party members believe that the ballots of the voters shouldn't be the final determiner of who our representatives are or which political party should be in the oval Office but that choice should be made by rioters and Anarchists in the streets of our cities. These anarchists would decide, by their tactics of looting and burning of property, the rightness of the election results and whether these election results are to be accepted as legitimate or not. This last election in which The democrat party canidate, Hillary Clinton, lost to the republican candidate, Ronald Trump, has proven just how much respect the democrat party members have for the results of an election and the voters choice. Now the democrat party and its infamous anarchist members have enlisted the rioters to disrupt and stop the inauguration of Donald Trump in any way that they can. This inauguration will be a test to see if the voters and the ballot box still determines the peoples selection for president or will the anarchists rioting in the streets overrule the rest of America's voters."	PRO	915
915	Se7fa8bb9-A3ab36bd1	The USFG Should Substantially Increase Its Exploration of Earths Oceans	"I'll post citations in the comments Greetings, judges. This is the negative's first constructive, and the base reasons for why you vote negative on this debate. First, Topicality It was previously established that the resolution of this debate would be ""Resolved: The United States Federal Government should substantially increase its non-military development and/or exploration of the earth's oeans."" They are not topical to this resolution for a few reasons: T-Development We define development as ""utilization of a resource"".That's Daniel Owen of 2003 They do not meet this interpretation because their plan doesn't develop ""ocean resources"". This is a voter issue for 2 reasons: Ground---resource-focus provides a stable and predictable direction for the topic and creates a balanced set of arguments for each side---depth of literature on oil, gas, and renewables is strong and creates high-quality debatesLimits---other interpretations make all ocean activity topical---explodes research burdens and makes preparation impossible T-Exploration “Exploration” must include data collection. That's Nortquist of 2007. Aff doesn’t---voting issue for functional limits---there are few exclusive definitions of “exploration” or “development”---requiring at least one central activity provides stable ground that functionally limits out tiny Affs that can’t beat a PIC out of data---limits are key to manageable research, preparation, and clash T-Its We define ""its"" as it appears in the resolution to refer to the USFG as it stands and is possessive. That's Updegrave of 1991. They do not meet this interpretation because the affirmative does not use the USFG as its actor, they specify no other actor than the Arctic Offshore Mining Committee. This is a voter issue for 3 reasons: 1. Limits---allowing effectual reductions explodes the topic. Any action can potentially result in less exploration/development. Limits are key to depth of preparation and clash. 2. Ground---our interpretation is key to establish a stable mechanism of legal prohibition that guarantees core ground based on topic direction. They allow the Aff to defend completely different processes that dodge core DAs and rob the best counterplan ground.3. Effects—the plan itself doesn’t explore, it gets other organizations to do it. That can potentially explode the topic Next, a Critique of Capitalism We are at a crossroads – capitalism’s cumulative impact across Earth’s biological realms has created a metabolic rift. Critical interrogation of capitalist ocean policy is necessary for historical materialist praxis. That's Rebecca Clausen and Brent Clark of 2005. The affirmative does a few things that problematizes capitalism's impact on Earth: First, their approach to rare earth metals as a commodity inherently is embedded in the logic of capitalism. That's Exner, Lauk, and Zittel of 2014. Next, Fear of economic crisis will always be exploited to prevent radical social change. These fears are not objective, but make sense only if we take for granted the logic of capitalism. That's Zizek in 1997. Third, Attempts to cure recession have led to continued crisis – further attempts to remedy economic meltdown will lead to never ending wars. That's Zizek in 9. Fourth, The aff's faith in the state as an agent of social change draws on a concept of civil society that serves to further capitalism. That's Meikisens-Wood in 95. Fifth, Only when we break away from the state can we have a successful revolution. That;s Negri in 2009. Capitalism’s exploitation of labor and resources will collapse modern civilization—radical redistribution of resources is necessary to avert mass violence. That's Ahmed of 2014. Lastly, Voting negative rejects their mechanistic market approach to ecology in favor of revolutionizing social relations for sustainable socialist praxis. That's Foster of 2008. Thus, our alternative is to vote negative in order to endorse a strategy of revolutionizing social relations for sustainable socialist praxis. The Case First, their representation of economy is all hype-- there is no impact to economic decline. That's Drezner of 2012. Second, there is no correlation between US involvement in anything and international stability. That's Fettweis, 11 Finally, While it’s true that China has a hegemony over “rare earth minerals”, it’s all hype—China’s “heg” means nothing as a) it’s unsustainable, b) rare earth metals are not rare. This takes out their call to solvency. That's Wortsall 10. Open for Cross-X."	CON	916
916	Se7fa8bb9-Af3d46a6	The USFG Should Substantially Increase Its Exploration of Earths Oceans	"Good morning, ladies, gentlemen, fellow debater, and honorable judges. My name is Forever 23 and I will be presenting the second affirmative for todays debate. before we begin the second affirmative, I would like to clarify several things that have come up previously. As I have emphasized numerous times in the first affirmative, the United States is in a vulnerable situation right now. The problem? Rare Earth elements. Or rather, the lack of rare earth elements. China has a monopoly on them, and United States efforts to mine for them on land have been futile. Because of this, my plan will focus on the Arctic Offshore Federal Committee. This committee will further subsidize a company called Freedom Minerals that will specialize in underwater excavation of REEs. Freedom Minerals will hire navigators, captain, excavators, mechanics, repairmen and communications personnel. In addition, they are giving AOC all the resources they excavate in exchange for funding. The committee will have a pristine facility in the aptly named Point Hope, Alaska, for the purpose of storing all the resources excavated and coordinating the fleet of ships. In addition, this center will also contain a repair yard that will do the maintenance on the ships of the fleet. There will be a fleet of 10 naval ships that will serve as excavators of the company. May I note ""naval"" as to ""relating to the sea"". These ships will be equipped with state of the art ice-breaking technology, and they are fully equipped for operation in the Arctic environment. Each ship will hold a crew of 600 personnel, ranging from mechanics to navigators. In addition, the repair yard will have 1000 repair men and our center will have 2000 personnel. In total, there will be 9000 people working on our project. So what do we expect from this plan? We will be extracting a total of 50000 metric tons of REEs per years from the nautical area around Alaska. A study by the Alaska Miners Association found that 20000 nautical miles surrounding Alaska, there is a total of 600000 tons of rare earth elements ranging from neodymium to yttrium. We will prioritize selling them to US based companies, since this plan is based around the United States need. The cost of elements will be the average market price, but we estimate from current trends that we will earn 665 million dollars from selling them to US based companies. The United States uses roughly 30000 thousand metric tons of REEs per year (according to the Department of Energy), so this operation will completely satisfy the domestic thirst for rare earth elements. In additions, we will have roughly 20000 metric tons of REE to sell to other nations. That will give us another 411 million dollars. In total, we earn 1106000000 dollars through the transactions of the resources. The elements will be extracted using state of the art technology, the solvent desferrioxamine- B. The German scientists that created diluter claim that they were able to extract at least 80% of rare earth elements from ferromanganese noodles by refining their ore- leaching method. This process is completely environmentally friendly because it only involves non- toxic, biodegradable diluter. Then, metals are extracted using Seafloor Mining Tool that is attached to an individual tube by a ship. Thus, the extraction of the substances has already been tested and proven successful. We will fund this plan by drawing money from the Ocean Exploration 2014 Funding Opportunity. The total fund is 3 billion dollars, but ours shall only utilize 2 billion. This fund was created by the Department of Commerce under the Discretionary Environment Science and Technology category. This grant is renewable every year, and our plan fits perfectly into the description. In addition, the plan also generate 1106000000 dollars because we sell our resources to companies. The USA spent 2310000000 on REEs in 2014 according to Congressional Research center and our plan is in fact cheaper. This is, once again, yet another benefit of our plan. This plan requires very little start up time; it only needs 1 years to set up the center and organize the fleet. Ladies and gentlemen. China has a vice grip on rare earth elements market, and we simply cannot stand by idly as they sap our country of its technological strength. China had signaled its reluctance to comply with America, and they leave us no choice but to mine underwater. Its times for the resurgence of the United States as a world power. It is time the United States to grown independent of China in the REEs sector, and its time to mine. Thank you and I hope you side with the affirmative team."	PRO	917
917	S45c6e56-Ac1ffd24e	"Resolved: Disney World should continue to host its ""gay days."""	Thank you for posting. Why is homosexualitty an adult topic? Well first of all, what is homosexuality? Homosexuality is that sexual orientation that makes one sexually attracted to those of their same gender. (1) It is a sexual topic. Sex is an adult topic. Children are not mature enough to understand sex. Children: My opponent then goes on to say that childhood is one of the most critical learning periods. I agree, but homosexuality is an adult topic. 4 year olds don't need to know about sex. Discrimination: Sorry for not developing my point. The reason why it is discrimination is that no other sexualities get their own day. Asexuals don't get their own day. Hetrosexuals don't get their own day. Only homosexuals get their own day. My opponent says that gay days promode that homosexuality is equal to the other sexualities. But giving one sexuality its own day and the other not is not equality. Purpose: Yes there are nothing prohibiting them. But this is about if they should, not if they could. Gay pride: The difference is that it is not in a child-themed park that's purpose is to entertain and not show political messages. Yes, children could be exposed to it, but it is not in a park aimed for children. Celebrating homosexuality in front of 4 year olds is not educating them. Teaching older kids in school is. Look here for a list of all the events: http://en.wikipedia.org... Economy: One day would not help the economy much. Yes, the amount of people accepting homosexuality is increasing, but that does not mean they think it should be celebrated in park aimed at children. Take me in example. I accept homosexuality, but I do not think it should be celebrated in a child-themed park. Conclusion: Celebrating homosexuality in a park aimed for children is innapropriate, discrimination to the other sexualities, and there are many alternatives. Sources 1. http://dictionary.reference.com... 2. http://en.wikipedia.org...	CON	918
918	S45c6e56-Adb11732d	"Resolved: Disney World should continue to host its ""gay days."""	"I thank my opponent for his response. I'll basically go down the flow with my opponent's case beginning with his own contentions and then his rebuttals: Children: First of all, my opponent states that homosexuality is an adult topic with no real warrant as to why it should be an adult topic. This argument is pretty much begging the question. Childhood is one of the most critical learning periods for children, and with more and more experience and learning they attain during this time period, this only makes them grow into more knowledgeable teenagers and young adults in the future with consideration that this learning period was used wisely. If my opponent disagrees with any of what I just said, I can definately find scientific data explaining the enormity of the learning period as well as its existence. It doesn't make sense to keep children away from learning about different topics just because we feel it's ""too strong,"" whatever my opponent's threshold for explaining what that is. This is all, of course, under the assumption that my opponent implies that parents in no way discuss ""adult topics"" with children. The only evidence he sort of gives is that kids these days are taught about sex in the 8th grade (which is sketchy all on its own considering his link didn't work), and in essence what he's implying is just to accept the status quo and leave it that without any sort of defense for the status quo itself. Connecting this response to my opponent's rebuttal, by the way, my opponent states that there are alternative pride events that can be used in order to spread the message of equality, but these can take place in large cities, where children can also come into contact and witness as well, meaning that there is still some possibility that a child can be exposed to this anyway. Discrimination: This doesn't make sense. Disney World is trying to advertise that homosexuality is equivalent to the need of respect as other sexualities, and based on the evidence that I have provided in my case, the public requires such an assimilation of mindset in order to protect the more marginalized minority. Disney World in no way is trying to advertise one sexuality over another because of this. They're in no way stating that heterosexuality or other sexualities are lower in respect or quality. If my opponent could please explain why this is discrimination in any way, this would be much appreciated. Purpose: This one doesn't make sense either. Yes, their main purpose is to entertain, but at the end of the day, corporations have the liberty to place an opinion about a topic or political affiliation. There is absolutely nothing prohibiting Disney World from doing this. Moving on to my opponent's rebuttals: Gay Pride: In my first rebuttal, I already explained that children have some possibility of being exposed to the alternatives considering that they take place in large cities. Looking at my opponent's alternatives: Gay pride festivals and gay pride parades are in essence the same exact thing: LGBT groups gathering in an area of a city in order to celebrate sexual identity. When you look at educating to the masses, my opponent provides absolutely no means of achieving this. If anything, Disney World's actions are educating the masses by doing this. He talks about how the list goes on, but he provides no sort of evidence about the other aspects of the list. Furthermore, if reaching benefits for homosexuals is the goal and earning the equal respect for the community is optimal, only using the alternatives will not reach that full potential. Branching out in the methodology could appeal to more of the masses. Economy: In this country where homosexuality is becoming more and more accepted at a national level as a result of the numerous events and ideologies promulgated by the LGBT community and its supporters? The amount of people in support of homosexuality is increasing whereas people in dissupport are decreasing in the United States (if evidence is needed, I will post in the second round). This means that increases in profits would ensue anyway under this function. He talks about how there would be such a high iput of money for the preparations, but the preparations require the input of other companies through commerce. What my opponent just said helps my case: it just turned from Disney World making a profit to more than one corporation making a profit because of the input needed to prepare. This inspires commerce, which increases the GDP."	PRO	919
919	S88fd29eb-A32b36330	Debate.org should have its own currency to help Juggle make money	"Hello, My name is Imabench, AND THIS IS YOUR WEEKLY IMABENCH TROLL DEBATE :D This week's topic, Debate.org should implement its own currency for everyone to be able to use, acquire, spend on a variety of services that DDO has to offer. Such currency would be earned by doing things that people regularly do on DDO already, meaning that anyone could easily start earning it. This currency could also be spent on a variety of things that DDOers could appreciate (which will be elaborated on later). This helps Juggle though because members who want a lot of DDO currency and fast can pay actual money for DDO currency, and that payment would go directly to Juggle. It would be just like how you buy credits on games on Facebook, here on DDO There are 3 parameters for this debate. 1) The DDO Currency will be in units called ""Benches"" 2) In this scenario Juggle is actually involved in this site (but on a limited scale) 3) Whoever accepts this debate believes that Ron Paul should give up, forever."	PRO	920
920	S88fd29eb-A56e638b4	Debate.org should have its own currency to help Juggle make money	"1) Idiots coming to this site and buying bench's thinking they were something else The point of it being small is that you can only buy them if you are actively seeking to buy them, while preventing dumbasses from buying them without knowing what the hell they are... 2) Farming (?) Bench's ""So you would rather have people randomly voting to get free Bench's, than posting it and having people actually decide?"" Voting randomly on debates is also a bannable offence here on DDO so that wouldnt happen either. ""One vote = 100 Bench's. So you only have to vote on 50 debates to get a free vote. ""There are 9,572 debates that match your search criteria"" So that is 957,200 bench's that can be claimed."" Which would take forever and a day to do. You assume that these farmers have an unbeatable will to get Bench's but reading every debate, voting fairly on them, and moving on to the next one gets tiresome after about 6 debates. Its impossible to vote on all the debates because anyone who sets out to do so will quite before voting on even a fraction of debates. ""Another thing is that what if you lose a debate that you should have won because the other person has bench's? "" - 1 Everybody thinks they should win every debate they have - 2 If one vote changes who wins the debate then you clearly did not have superior arguments to the other person - 3 People can counter if they have the Bench's to do so - 4 Almost every debate on here is decided by more than 1 point so this would barely happen, and if it did it would probably only occur on debates that have gotten ZERO votes ""Ok, so i can hit q w e r t y u i o p [ ] \ a s d f g h j k l ; ' z x c v b n m , . /, then qw qe qr qt qy qu qi qo qp and so on. That alone is over 40 bench's. That is four times the amount given for starting a new debate, in under a minute"" Not even close, to post to any forum you have to type in what you say, then click review, then click submit, and then you get your 1 Bench. It is a longer process than you make it seem and since you would need 1000 forum posts to do anything, that willpower the person has fades immensely over time. Spamming of useless debates and arguments has been dropped. "" Also, ""In one study of average computer users, the average rate for transcription was 33 words per minute, and 19 words per minute for composition."" [1] One Wpm= 5 keystrokes. So 33 x 5 = 165 keystrokes in a minute. That is for an average user. So in under ten minutes, if i was desperate, i can get 1000 benches."" Assuming that one can just type and update your profile information then maybe. But you need to go to edit profile, type in whatever it is you want to change, type in what you are changing, then click save. Once again, it is a process that lasts much longer then you make it seem, so your alleged 1000 benches that you think you can get in ten minutes is closer to 100, which is still 900 short of anything you can buy, and would exhaust your willpower quickly. ""I can accept open debates then just forefeit."" That would only get you 5 Bench's, which is next to nothing, and such a tactic would ruin your win percentage which people care a lot more about then earning Bench's 3) Legalized Prostitution ""Only the hot people will get paid, and they can then use the bench's to win debates."" And thats bad because???? Debate.org needs more smoking hot women and this plan would bring them here whereas your only makes legit people force to be a prostitute to one person. SOCIALISM!!!!! 4) Buying extra character space ""So the hot girls would always win."" If one vote somehow changes the debate (which happens only 1% of the time) then yeah, they could, assuming they actually put out in the first place. ""So 5000 for a point, and i showed you can get infinite bench's, sooo..... yeah."" Your killing everyone's brain cells my friend. You have access to infinite bench's but doing stuff on this site barely pays out bench's to begin with meaning that you really need to have no life and an impossible amount of will power and a lot of time just to slowly make your way to the first thing you can buy with Bench's.......... The only way you can make a lot of Bench's in no time at all is if you buy them. 5) Changing your name ""Why don't they just tell people?"" Its Juggle, not mommy 6) Buying Bench's with actual money ""Bench's = Porn and 1 point votes for your own debates when they most likely cannot even change the outcome."" Fixed it ""Still, it could happen and the one person would have 99% of the debates in the bag. Also, if Juggle saw this, there is no way in hell they would stop it."" The chances of it happening are close to zero since most debates are decided by more than 3 votes, and the amount of Bench's you need to get 1 point in your favor is immense and out of reach for desperate trolls. Also you would be surprised how Juggle use to manage this site and how they could exercise control over it. Dropped arguments: - Issues over buying extra character space is dropped ======================================================================================================================================================== ""It tracks how well people are doing, this puts some incentive out there."" There is more than enough incentive for people to do better on here. Win percentage, Percentile, number of wins, its more than enough to get people to strive for it and your system would discriminate against people who are no longer active. ""About prostitution: My system doesn't give people the oppertunity to unbalance a debate by posting nudes."" No it only allows them to try to leave their mark on the entire site for all time by posting their nudes..... ======================================================================================================================================================== Juggle should have this idea because it helps them make money, it would arouse their interest in the site, people can make money easily by doing stuff they already do, everything that is free will remain free, the stuff you can buy with bench's cost a lot of bench's which eliminates desperate trolls trying to get them, and the stuff you can buy does not dramatically shift power towards you, it only gives people who have contributed to this site in a good manner a slight advantage. It is nto giving power to people, it is rewarding them with the fruit of their labor. I thank the Con for a great debate and I thank all of the voters for reading :D"	PRO	921
921	S88fd29eb-A689799db	Debate.org should have its own currency to help Juggle make money	"Ok here is how people can earn ""Bench's"" 1) 100 Bench's for voting on a debate 2) 1 Bench for every forum post 3) 10 Bench's for starting a new debate 4) 10 Bench's for posting an argument to a debate 5) 5 Bench's for accepting an open debate 6) 1 Bench for updating your stance on the Big Issues or your profile information Basically the stuff you do all the time is how you make money on DDO, but There is a variety of thins you can do with this money on DDO, 1) Legalized Prostitution. I got your attention now huh? Yes with DDO having its own currency members will be allowed to transfer money to other members for whatever reason. And on DDO since there is always a high demand for people to post pics of themselves, you can guarantee that with a DDO currency that legalized prostitution will become a reality! 2) Put extra character space in arguments, 1000 characters for 1000 Bench's You accept a debate a little fast, your opponent made a character limit of 500 characters which is bull sh*t. You though have the funds to still make the debate intellectual and give substantial arguments. Maybe though you find yourself in a heavy weight battle and you need all the characters you can get, go ahead and turn that 8000 into 9000 to make your point and possibly win the debate. 3) Buy extra votes in debates? That will cost 5000 but it could help you How many times have you noob sniped someone or roasted a troll in a debate only to have nobody vote on it in time and it ends in a tie? well for 5,000 bench's you can go ahead and give yourself the well deserved win. 4) CHANGE YOUR NAME FOR 10,000 We all have thought about changing our name at one point am I right? well the greatest prize you can get with a DDO currency is being able to change your name to the name you really want without having to start everything over and having to refriend anyone. Lets say though that someone has the name you want, and they are some old account that hasnt been online in two years and hasnt debated more than 3 times. Well for 15,000 you can go ahead and buy that name out and make it your name! Now how does Juggle make money off of this? Well some people are really impatient or might really be in a squeeze where they want a vote or two or extra argument space. Well for a small nominal fee one person can buy Bench's by paying actual money to Juggle in exchange for them. This makes DDO instantly more profitable for Juggle and could really arouse their interest in the website since money is rolling in automatically. Those are the reasons why DDO should have its own currency"	PRO	922
922	Sea6e1c46-A44bac522	A just government should provide health care to its citizens.	Okay ill forfeit!!!! its not that important!!!! Im sorry that this is my first debate that my high school teacher is forcing us to do i can really care less!!!	PRO	923
923	Sf9f64c14-A913a2c94	Wikipedia seeks to achieve its democratic goal by democratic means. As an open-source project it re...	Wikipedia seeks to achieve its democratic goal by democratic means. As an open-source project it relies upon the collaboration of tens of thousands of people who constantly add, check and edit articles. This “socialisation of expertise” ensures that errors and omissions are rapidly identified and corrected, and that the site is constantly updated. No traditional encyclopedia can match this scrutiny, which has also been used successfully to develop and improve open-source software such as Firefox and Linux.	PRO	924
924	Sf9f64c14-A41d1fcc3	Wikipedia emerged very well from the only systematic comparison of its quality against its leading t...	Wikipedia emerged very well from the only systematic comparison of its quality against its leading traditional rival, the Encyclopedia Britannica. A survey in the leading journal “Nature” compared 42 pairs of articles on a wide range of subjects. Experts in each topic found that Wikipedia’s user-contributed articles had only 30% more errors and omissions than Britannica, despite the latter’s much vaunted pride in its expert authors and editors. And as Wikipedia is a constant work-in-progress, these faults were very quickly corrected, whereas a traditional publication will only revise articles at intervals of years, if not decades.	PRO	925
925	Sde2ed754-A833f5dfc	The U.S. Federal Government should increase its exploration and/or development of space	"I enjoy this debate so far, but the play must go on! I will first defend my points from the attacks and then attack my opponents case. So in my opponents first attack to my first point, to summarize it, if America were to go to the moon and mars, then there will be great benefits like the ones at the Apollo program. Well first of all, times have changed, and America would get more harm then benefits for going out to Mars or to the Moon for expansions. The bush administration wanted to put man on the moon again in the year 2020, but there was nothing to back it up, there wasn't the money to do it, and there wasn't the resources to do it either, so the Obama administration turned it down because it would cost too much money and other reasons. To my opponents second attack to my first point, basically saying that there doesn't have to be world peace to go to space. Once again times have changed, and there are some more countries that have hostilities towards America, like Pakistan, and extremist organizations such as Al Qaeda who are willing to attack at any moment if they saw America doing well in something. There needs to be a world peace to expand in America's space program, because of extremist groups and hostile countries to America will be willing to harm America if they try to do any big progression. To my opponent's attack to my second point. Well first of all, ""The U.S. government officially hit its $14.3 trillion debt ceiling... The U.S. spends on average $118 billion more each month than it takes in.""[1] The U.S. is in major debt! The U.S. can't afford major missions to the moon or mars or any where else in space! The reason why America could afford the Apollo missions is because America wasn't in this much debt, so they had the money. Besides, Obama is taking money out of NASA and putting it into private companies to take care of all the sending things into space. To my opponent's attack on my third point. A. To the ""everyday risk attack"", on earth, there are hospitals if something were to go bad like the gallons of gasoline that we sit on every day to get to work, but in space, there are no hospitals, just like the Apollo 13 mission, because you love the Apollo missions so much. B. With the recent quest to find life in space, and the search of water on other planets, which can harbor bacteria, viruses, and other disease that can harm the human race because the human race isn't ready for it, that's not Hollywood, the finding of a cure in a short amount of time is Hollywood. C. Do you really think that new technology is more important than life? Now to my opponents case 1. That is all childhood dreams, when I was a kid I wanted to be a scientist, but now I don't. Anything can leave impressions on people to be something, but it is their choice to choose to be what ever they want to be. A child could watch a rock and roll band, then that kid would want to be in a rock and roll band. There are more important jobs scientists and engineers, such as jobs that help society function. 2. First of all, how can America know more about our planet by studying other planets? They're different planets, they have different features, studying Jupiter won't say how the Earth will turn out. Global warming is a myth, the earth goes through both hot and cold cycles. America currently knows a lot of the universe all ready, I can tell you the brief story of the creation of the universe to where we are right now, the big bang theory of there was a big boom and that created the simplest of elements, Hydrogen, in these big hydrogen clouds, the hydrogen started to come together and then make heavier elements and soon that created stars, and when a star super nova-ed, it would create even heavier elements where those elements would come together and make planets and other bodies in space and then it would create the earth and then through a long period of time of certain things it would lead to us right now (there is a TON more but I don't want to explain it all). Just by that we know a lot of this stuff already, so there isn't a big need to obtain more knowledge. 3. If we look at the time line of technological discoveries, at the start it would take a long time to come up with new technologies, but as soon as the human race went further in technology it would get shorter and shorter to get some new technology, this is called Moore's law, where technological discoveries would come sooner as time went on. There has been many many more discoveries before the ability to go out into space. America is going to get new technology, its only a matter of time, space program or not it is going to happen, like the work on artificial intelligence is now being worked on. 4. Going back to my defending, America wasn't in a big debt crisis back during the Apollo missions, and now that America hit the debt ceiling. I ask you to vote for Con! I can't wait to see my opponents response. [1] = http://caffertyfile.blogs.cnn.com..."	CON	926
926	Sde2ed754-A25366b50	The U.S. Federal Government should increase its exploration and/or development of space	"I will first attack my opponents defense, then re-defend my case. 1. When you ask a young kid, ""what do you want to be when you grow up?"" the usual response would be ""a firefighter"" or ""a veterinarian"" but only a very small few would be of those careers. It is the same with all careers, children get impressed with all different kinds of careers but only a small few choose that career. If there was a huge advancement in, lets say acting, do you think a bunch of children would go running off to be actors or actresses? No, once again a small few would, it is the same with advancing the space program. 2. I will bring up again, the other planets are different, ""Each of the planets has a different atmosphere...""[1]. Besides the fact that America already knows enough about Venus, to know about the CO2 and greenhouse gasses, so there is no need to increase its exploration and/or development of space. America doesn't need to increase its space program because we know enough already, America knows that: solar flares emit tons of radiation that the earths atmosphere protects us from, everything came from the big bang and how we(America) knows that is because the universe is expanding, our sun was formed by ""light elements"" such as hydrogen, the effects of asteroid impacts are fatal by seeing where the asteroids impacted the earth a long time ago, and there is more and more. Clearly America knows enough about the universe already, so there is no need to increase its exploration and/or development of space. 3. Moore's law still concerns with technology, just with the computers, and computers are important in modern life. Yet there is also great advancements in times of war, so the space program isn't the only thing that advances America's technology. I also go back to the fact that we have enough to keep our technologies advancing so there won't be a need to increase the space program. 4. To your source about the $1 spent on NASA compared to the $98, that was at 2007, but now its at the debt ceiling, so the money paying would have to change. It is better to use as much money to help lower the national debt then to use money to pay for the space program. Although it might be small but every penny counts to help lower the national debt. Let America use the money on more important things. Now to re-defend my case. 1. I still think that there needs to be world peace before America increases its exploration and/or development of space, because there could be in a sense ""space bandits"" or ""space terrorists"" if America increases its space program. If America does, then other countries could and will find out about this information and then use it against us. ""Iran's announcement that it launched a research rocket has called new attention to a space program that Tehran says is peaceful but which some fear aims to produce long-range ballistic missiles that could reach Europe or the United States.""[2]. The change of space war is close, and it will be closer if the space program is increased. 2. America still needs to focus on trying to lower the debt than to spend more money on the space program 3. A. Yes the Apollo 13 mission did come back to earth, but it started the road of the dangers of space, there is still many other dangerous things in space, such as radiation, small dust particles moving at high speeds, and many others, that would lead the people in space in much greater danger. B. You got to remember that the universe is very large, there is a high chance of finding alien life or any thing else. There has been discovers of other planets that have the potential of containing life, due to a strategy of finding planets that circle stars and then they measure if it is in the ""Goldy locks zone"" where it is a zone that the planet is a perfect distance of a star to inhabit life because it is not to hot and not to cold. C. Although the space shuttle Endeavor has launched, it has had problems already ""Mike Fincke, one of NASA's most experienced spacemen, had to settle for a partial lube job, after the bolts holding down covers on the massive joint started popping off unexpectedly. ""[3] Even though it is a minor problem it still shows that it could still be too dangerous. There is currently too many issues to increase the space program, and we are already in the lead of the world space programs, there is no need to increase it. Please vote Con! [1] = http://msnucleus.org... [2] = http://www.msnbc.msn.com... [3] = http://www.msnbc.msn.com..."	CON	927
927	Sde2ed754-Aeb27b313	The U.S. Federal Government should increase its exploration and/or development of space	First of all I would thank my opponent who accepts this challenge for their time and knowledge. I would like to add that by space I mean outer space, beyond the Earth's mesosphere. Position descriptions Pro: has to say why the U.S. federal government should increase its exploration and/or development of space. Con: has to say why the U.S. federal government shouldn't increase its exploration and/or development of space. I will leave the first round for my opponent to ask any questions and/or to say any comments or concerns to the topic. Thank you and good luck.	CON	928
928	S701e7d34-Adbdb3bc5	Agnosticism can not support its claims with facts and evidence	"As I begin my final response, I would like to take this time to stress to my opponent that I did not accuse him of re-defining agnosticism. Rather, I stated that he seems to have a fundamental misunderstanding of agnosticism that requires greater explanation than the definition he provided. I have no problem with the definition he provided, but his misguided perception of what agnosticism is or isn't was necessary to correct. Also, I would like to further stress that agnosticism is not ""knowing"" and ""not knowing"" two opposing statements as simultaneously true. As I stated in my previous response, ""I do not know if God exists. Period."" Again, this statement is not contradictory. It simply means that from all the evidence that I have seen, whether historically, scientifically, or even philosophically, I withhold my judgment about the existence of God because I personally have yet to see sufficient evidence and cause for belief in such a being. Finally, I have accepted the burden of proof from the beginning of this debate and have demonstrated that agnosticism is an logically sound. And again, it is possible to for one to be an agnostic atheist or an agnostic theist. Agnosticism is not mutually exclusive to atheism or theism [1]. In maintaining that one cannot be an agnostic theist/atheist, my opponent is committing an Argument by Assertion [2]. On Russell Pro infers that I stated that Bertrand Russell created the Law of Noncontradiction. I made no such inference. I said that Russell employed the LONC in a theorem of propositional logic that he co-proposed. Why Don't I Know? In his last post Pro said, ""What matters if the justification for that position. His position is a conclusion based upon 'X' amount of evidence. If he believes that his conclusion: 'I don’t know', then he needs to give positive arguments for why he doesn’t know."" From 1992 to 2007, I was absolutely certain, beyond the shadow of a doubt that I knew who God was, namely Jesus Christ. Even when the evidence against his existence became so overwhelming, I maintained my faith, mostly out of fear of eternal damnation. But after years of looking for the evidence and finding it unconvincing, I left Christianity. This decision was based on my knowledge of astronomy and science, lack of data confirming Jesus as a historic person, parallels between Judeo-Christianity and other ancient religions, and the moral failures of Judeo-Christianity. I mentioned Noah's Ark was most likely lifted from Sumarian and Akkadian epics like Gilgamesh and Atra-hasis, but I'll provide more parallels in ""Religious Trends"" below. But before I do, I'd like to follow up on science. My opponent now seems to infer that the Bible is not a science book. If so, then why hold Christianity as true scientifically? Moreover, is he saying that an elephant can hold 12,000 gallons of water in its trunk? Also, why does the Bible not draw a distinction between locusts and say, ants, flies or ladybugs when it refers to insects as having four legs? So there are two questions that I would like to my opponent to answer in the comments section. First, does he believe that the Bible is the infallible word of God. Second, does he believe that the universe young, between 6,000 and 10,000 years old? There are many more items I could touch on scientifically, but I simply can't due to lack of character space. More on Morality As I read Pro's description of the Divine Command Theory, I remember why I am often horrified why anyone would continue to use such a barbaric and fanciful ideology as the basis for divine authorship for morality at the hands of the Christian deity. While I am aware that Craig did not create the DCT, once again I find it absolutely appalling that Christians like Pro continue to prop him up as their champion of reason when his arguments are so morally reprehensible and logically fallacious. Take for example WLC's article, Slaughter of the Canaanites [3]. In this article, WLC creates a breathtaking moral quagmire for himself and his followers. The purpose of his article is to address the nightmarish brutality visited on the Canaanites by the Israelites. Craig's apologetics even stuns some Christians, let alone anyone with a sound moral compass. He states, ""So whom does God wrong in commanding the destruction of the Canaanites? Not the Canaanite adults, for they were corrupt and deserving of judgement. Not the children, for they inherit eternal life. So who is wronged? Ironically, I think the most difficult part of this whole debate is the apparent wrong done to the Israeli soldiers themselves. Can you imagine what it would be like to have to break into some house and kill a terrified woman and her children? The brutalizing effect on these Israeli soldiers is disturbing."" It isn't the men, women, children or infants that Craig wants us to feel compassion for, but the Israelite soldiers who butchered these families. This is absolutely outrageous! But the hole WLC digs for himself gets even deeper when earlier in the article he says, ""On divine command theory, then, God has the right to command an act, which, in the absence of a divine command, would have been sin, but which is now morally obligatory in virtue of that command."" I'm a nutshell, WLC commits yet another logical fallacy known as Argumentum ad Baculum, or Might Makes Right [4]. In fact, the entirety of DCT could be viewed such a fallacy. If you or I committed acts of genocide, we'd be on death row, but since it's Craig's god we're talking about here, eh, what the heck? Let's give him a break. Such thinking is abhorrent and absurd! Also, Con says that I failed to mention any of the dozens of atrocities committed by the god of the Bible. I can only put so much into 10,000 characters, but here are some. Hos. 9:16, Ex. 21:20-21, Ex. 13:2, Judges 21:10-24, Num. 31:7-18, and Deut. 22:23-29. These are only a handful and I could go on. But ask yourself, is murdering a rape victim morally acceptable? Or is it okay to kill a child who hits their parents? Also, I think that the fact that my opponent did not answer my previous questions regarding morality proves my point that morality does not come from his god. Rather, morality is perfectly explained as a natural by-product of evolutionary biology [5]. Religious Trends When we look at the Mediterranean and the ancient Near East around 2,000 years ago, we see that the region was a hotbed of religious fervor. Trade routes in the region allowed for the free flow of religions, which often merged, and usually Hellenistic ideas were the centerpiece. For example, Serapis resulted from the marriage of Greek and Egyptian religions [6]. And we know that the Romans adopted and renamed the Greek pantheon as their their own. We also know that the ancient Hebrews had a pantheon of their own, from which the war god, Yahweh, became their sole god. Why then is it so difficult to imagine Persian, Greek, and Egyptian gods influencing the creation of a new god, namely Jesus? Have we become so far removed from our common sensibilities that we lost our critic thought when it comes to religious indoctrination? Parallels to Christ This is one of the most willfully ignored problems for Christians who will do anything to ignore the elephant in the room. While I make no attempt to draw parallels between Jesus and seemingly every god in ancient Near Eastern paganism like Acharya S. does, there are nevertheless undeniable similarities between Jesus and others gods. For instance, Greek mythology tells us that Perseus was born through the virgin Danae, and Romulus was also born of a virgin. Jesus also shares the dying-and-rising god my theme with Osiris, Attis, and Adonis (Adonai?) among others [7]. Jesus even shares the trait of being spared death at birth with Zeus [8]. This list is hardly exhaustive as there are dozens more parallels I could mention. Moreover, Justin Martyr wrote, And when we say also that the Word, who is the first-begotten of God, was produced without sexual union, and that He, Jesus Christ, our Teacher, was crucified and died, and rose again, and ascended into heaven, we propound nothing different from what you believe regarding those whom you esteem sons of Jupiter."" Even an early church father knew that there were similarities between Christ and other gods. Therefore, the fact that there are parallels between Jesus and other gods has not been refuted [9]. I think my point is made. In spite of my opponent's assertion that pagan parallels to Christ are fantasy, they are indeed very real and, at least to some degree, adopted by the early Christians as part of their rituals. Closing In closing, I thank my opponent for this debate. I maintain that Pro still misunderstands what agnosticism is and I strongly suggest he refrain from WLC's teachings as they are fallacious and often twisted too suit his own sense of morality. As I suspected, this was a lively debate and I'm glad we had the opportunity to discuss agnosticism, and I look forward to future debates with him. Bibliography [1] Dan Barker (2008). Godless: How an Evangelical Preacher Became One of America's Leading Atheists. New York. Ulysses Press. p. 96. [2] Wikipedia. Argument by Assertion. Retrieved January 9, 2014. [3] Reasonable Faith. Slaughter of the Canaanites. Retrieved January 9, 2014. [4] Wikipedia. Argumentum ad Baculum. Retrieved January 9, 2014. [5] Richard Joyce (2006). The Evolution of Morality. Cambridge, MA. MIT Press. pp. 1-29. [6] Wikipedia. Serapis. Retrieved January 9, 2014. [7] David A. Leeming, Kathryn Madden, Stanton Marlan, (2010). Encyclopedia of Psychology and Religion: L-Z. 1st ed. New York, NY: Springer Science+Business Media, pp. 266-269 [8] Richard FitzRoy Somerset Raglan (1956). The Hero: A Study in Tradition, Myth, and Drama. Mineola, NY. Dover Publications, p. 180. [9] Leslie William Bernard (1997). Justin Martyr: The First and Second Apologies. Mahwah, NJ. Paulist Press. p."	CON	929
929	S701e7d34-A947598a7	Agnosticism can not support its claims with facts and evidence	I happily accept Pro's challenge, and look forward to what I'm sure will be a spirited debate. As an agnostic, I believe that not only are there good reasons to maintain such a philosophical position, but that the evidence is clearly and heavily in favor of agnosticism over faith. Before I post my opening arguments in the second round of our debate, I would like to give some history about my agnosticism and what lead me to this never-ending search for truth and knowledge that I began several years ago. The story of my agnosticism began on a cold, dreary day in 1992 in Kittanning, Pennsylvania. It was in this year in my brother's house that I became a born-again believer in Jesus Christ after my then-sister-in-law led me through the sinner's prayer. Immediately, I felt like a river was rushing through my body; a river that began washing away years of every negative aspect of my life and carried me closer to Jesus Christ. On that day, my spiritual life began and I began to immerse myself in Jesus' teachings, life, and most importantly, his death and resurrection. As I continued my walk with Christ, my relationship and burning passion to become more like him grew. Shortly after I moved to Hampton Roads, Virginia, I began searching in earnest for a God-fearing church, and it was through a friend that I finally found one. I began attending Bethel Baptist Church in Chesapeake, thirty miles from where I lived. So, nearly every Sunday and every Wednesday for over three years, I spent much of my free time at Bethel Baptist, growing in my faith and continually seeking God's direction for my life. Years passed and I enrolled at Penn State University where I studied Geography. Immediately after graduation I was offered a job with an international engineering firm where in Maryland. Since I worked evenings, it was during the long nights after work that I would spend my time challenging my faith. I became so sure of what I believed that I started to have online debates with non-believers in the hopes of converting them. After all, I had the truth of God's Word on my side. There was absolutely no way I could lose. But losing is exactly what I did. I lost nearly every debate I had on everything from evolution to the resurrection. And more often than not, when someone would hand me evidence that challenged my Christian worldview, I ignored it. As a result of losing those debates, I began to question not only what I was told about the Bible, but Jesus Christ himself. At first, I simply believed that at one time, I believed that the Bible was pure and perfect, but through hundreds of years of translations and mistranslations, it lost its original meaning. But I wondered, if Jesus is who he says he is, why couldn't he preserve his word even today? In spite of the questions I was asking, I considered my faith to be strong. But over time, those questions became more pointed. Ultimately, it was my love of science, particularly astronomy, that led to the erosion of my faith. And when the questions I had could yield no answers without greatly stretching the truth, I knew something was very wrong with Christianity. Finally, I asked a question of my former sister-in-law, the one that led me to Christ, that my faith finally became extinct. When I asked her a question that was simply too difficult for her to answer, she replied that I just need to stop asking so many questions and just believe. That was the final nail in the coffin of my faith. So on a cold November day in 2007, after three slow and often painful years of asking questions and not finding answers, I deconverted from Christianity and became an agnostic. I have a lot of atheist friends who persistently try to persuade me to make the next step into atheism, but I refuse to do so. I remain agnostic for one reason; I do not know if God exists, whether God be a he, she, it, they, or simply some mystical force. I maintain that agnosticism is a respectable and honest position to be in, and contrary to Pro's statement, is based on facts and evidence. I look forward to Pro's opening arguments.	CON	930
930	S701e7d34-A1c0d4965	Agnosticism can not support its claims with facts and evidence	"There are good reasons to maintain agnosticism and the evidence is firmly in favor of agnosticism over faith. I would like to begin my opening arguments in defense of agnosticism by first challenging Pro's position that agnosticism is not based on facts, then challenging Pro's position of faith. Agnosticism Further Defined Pro began his opening argument by giving a definition of agnosticism. In spite of the definition he shares, Pro seems to have a fundamental misunderstanding of what agnosticism is as he indicates that agnostics promote ""opposite assertions cannot be true at the same time."" It is then necessary to further define agnosticism. The term agnostic was coined by English biologist Thomas Henry Huxley in 1869. However, the primary hallmarks of agnosticism were recognized as early as the 5th century BCE. [1] As a philosophical position, agnosticism maintains that God or gods are unknown, meaning that agnostics do not know whether or not they exist. Agnosticism, theistic or atheistic, simply begins from a position of neutrality and makes conclusions based upon evidence, or often the lack thereof, with respect to any given deity. As denoted above, there are varying types of agnostics. For instance, one could be an agnostic theist, meaning that one could believe in God, but not know it for sure. On the other hand, you could be an agnostic atheist, meaning that you believe that God does not exist, but you don’t know it for sure. [2] It’s really that simple. My opponent is trying to make assertions about agnosticism that simply aren’t true. Finally, although the number of nonbelievers, among them agnostics, is small, the number is growing. [3] The Plausibility of Agnosticism In his opening argument, Pro states that agnosticism violates the Law of Noncontradiction, which is the second of the Three Classic Laws of Thought. I contend that this statement is more evidence that my opponent misunderstands what agnosticism is. Further, the Law of Noncontradiction was co-proposed by Bertrand Russell, a well-known atheist, as a mathematical theory in the last century [4]. Which begs the question, why would one of the most famous atheists of all time employ a mathematical theory that has destroys his own disbelief? Moreover, I believe that Pro's reference to the LONC is a straw man argument because he infers that I simultaneously know and don't know if God exists or anything of his nature. He's absolutely correct when he says that a person can know and not know X simultaneously is an impossibility. So, let me clarify for my opponent: I do not know if God exists. Period. By this statement I am not proposing two opposing arguments as true. Therefore, my position as an agnostic is not in violation of the Law of Noncontradiction, nor any of the Laws of Classical Thought. It is also perfectly reasonable to doubt the miracle claims within the Judeo-Christian religion. For instance, Pro believes that Jesus' resurrection from the dead is a historic event. But since we cannot repeat such an event, it is reasonable to doubt such an event ever happened. But since Pro is certain of Jesus's resurrection as a historical event, is he just as willing to accept the resurrection claims of other deities such as Osiris [5] or Tammuz [6] as historic? Agnosticism: The Perfect Reference Point Logically and philosophically, and contrary to Pro's claims, agnosticism is an ideal, if not the ideal point of reference from which logical thought should begin. As such, it can be viewed as a discipline by which we can acquire knowledge. It begins with no assumptions and ends with logical conclusions. However, many adherents of Christianity, particularly fundamentalist Christianity, begin with the foregone conclusion that the Bible is the absolute and final Word of God. On one hand, such a philosophical position is understandable. After all, if the Bible really is the Word of God and it is impossible for God to lie, then it should stand to reason that the Bible truly is divinely inspired. But on the other hand, if one approaches the Bible from an unbiased perspective, free from outside influence, as agnosticism does, then it becomes clearly evident that not only is agnosticism the better choice over Christianity, but logically superior. It is indeed the default position. The Bible may have good bits of wisdom scattered throughout its pages, but as it cannot be trusted as a science book or moral guide. That said, there are indeed historical accuracies in the Bible, although much of that history is founded on myth. Science Supports Agnosticism, Not Faith My opponent correctly states that science cannot tell us why we're here. I assume that he is referring to the natural sciences when he makes this statement. But if he is trying to project his own thoughts on what the natural sciences should or shouldn't tell us, then he will be sorely disappointment. The natural sciences give us methods of explaining the world around us. [7] Through repeatable, observable, testable, and falsifiable evidence, we are able to make reasonable conclusions about our world and the universe. However, God is outside of space, time, and nature itself. Since God is outside of nature, we cannot observe, falsify, or test God, nor can we repeat the miracle claims in the Bible, such as the resurrection. Therefore, I can reasonably conclude that I do not know if God exists since I am not a spiritual being. So, the natural sciences draw no conclusions about why we're here, but how we got here. The question of why we're here is philosophical and theological in nature. But if my opponent believes that the Bible is a science book, then let’s take a look at the story of Noah’s Ark. If we scrutinize the biblical claims of Noah’s Ark, questions immediately begin to rise. For instance, an adult African elephant drinks about 40 gallons of fresh water per day [8]. Genesis 8:4-5 says that the animals were onboard the Ark for 10 months [9]. If the animals were onboard the Ark for 300 days, and Noah needed to support at least two adult African elephants with at least 12,000 gallons of fresh water in those 300 days, where did Noah get the water in such a saline environment? Also, the Bible states plainly that insects have four legs [10]. We simply know that this isn’t true. These are just two examples of the laughable attempts by apologists to equate the Bible as a science book. Moreover, the story of Noah's Ark is likely lifted from other ancient tales like The Epic of Gilgamesh and the Akkadian epic of Atra-Hasis. Science is clearly favors agnosticism, not the Judeo-Christian faith. Meaning and Life My opponent infers that, as an agnostic, my life has no meaning. This argument has long been used by theists in their critique of nonbelievers, and is simply false. My life has significance because I give it significance. Believers and nonbelievers alike can all stand on the same beach in Bora Bora and enjoy the beauty of the crystal-clear blue water and sky. It is not for the believer to decide whether or not my life has meaning or if I am capable of enjoying physical beauty. If this life is all we have, then we should make the most of it and leave a better world for our children. In contrast, my opponent seems to indicate that his life has value due to his faith. Yet, the Bible that he holds so dear tells him that he is a horrible person and that his goodness comes from his god alone. Agnostics would say that is goodin spite his faith, not because of it. Morality Favors Agnosticism It is disheartening to realize that my opponent places so much stock in William Lane Craig's teachings. This tired argument is yet another one of Craig's inane and baseless inferences that morality comes from his god alone. It has been so completely eviscerated that only the most willfully ignorant of Craig's followers pay it any heed. His biblical view of morality is so logically fallacious that I wonder if Craig even spent more than an hour reading the Bible at all. But if Pro wants to insist his god is the author of moratlity, then I have questions for him. Does he believe that it is morally acceptable to beat another human being to death without punishment so long as the person doesn't die within a few days? Is it morally acceptable to kill a rape victim? Would he, as the Bible commands, kill witches, homosexuals and infidels? Would he sell his daughter as a sex slave? Does he think girls have less monetary value than boys as his god does? But this is a debate about agnosticism, not morality. If my opponent would like to debate about morality, I’d be more than happy to engage him. As for the rest of the supposed facts that Pro presents about Jesus, I simply couldn't care less. I am willing to cede that Jesus may have been a real person, although I have my doubts. But divine? Not a chance. SOURCES [1] Wikipedia, Agnosticism. Retrieved January 4, 2014, http://en.wikipedia.org... [2] George H. Smith, (2010). Atheism: The Case Against God. 1st ed. Amherst, NY: Prometheus Books, p. 10, [3] Pew Research Center, “Nones” on the Rise. Retrieved January 4, 2014, http://www.pewforum.org... [4] Alfred North Whitehead, Bertrand Russell, (1910). Principia Mathematica. Cambridge, U.K.: Cambridge University Press, pp. 116–117 [5] Jan Assmann, (2001), The Search for God in Ancient Egypt, 1st ed. Cornell University Press, p. 503 [6] David A. Leeming, Kathryn Madden, Stanton Marlan, (2010). Encyclopedia of Psychology and Religion: L-Z. 1st ed. New York, NY: Springer Science+Business Media, p. 267 [7] Ledoux, Stephen F. (2002). Defining Natural Sciences. Behaviorology Today 5 (1): 34. [8] Keith Bain, Pippa de Bruyn, Lizzie Williams, Philip Brigg, (2010). Frommer’s Kenya and Tanzania. 1st ed. Hoboken, NJ: Wiley Publishing, p. 503. [9] Genesis 8:4-5, http://www.biblegateway.com... [10] Levitius 11:20-23, http://www.biblegateway.com..."	CON	931
931	S701e7d34-Aef57d8e0	Agnosticism can not support its claims with facts and evidence	I will be arguing Pro that Agnosticism is not based on facts or evidences to support its claims. Con will be arguing that Agnosticism does have evidence to support its claims.	PRO	932
932	S418a9f82-Ab2459250	Resolved: The US Federal Government should significantly reform its Criminal Justice System (Policy)	"I thank Con for responding in a timely manner. Now before I begin the direct refutation of Con's arguments, I would like to mention a few clarifications to what a policy debate means. In policy debate, we have a theoretical construct named ""fiat power"". This comes from the latin for ""let it be done"". (1) Basically, when the mandates are reasonable and using the correct enforcement (such as in this case the federal government), they immediately come to pass. An unreasonable mandate would be ""Iraq will stop fighting and there will be world peace, America will be victorious"". Obviously, this is mis-construing the resolution that states the united states federal government should reform its criminal justice system. In fact, this is in the judging manual for team policy debate (same as policy except with two people on each side). (2) Now that we are clear on this, let's move on to Con's arguments. Mandate 1. Mandatory Recording Con argued that because previous similar legislation did not pass through Congress, my plan will not work. This is answered to in the introduction here about fiat power. Fiat power is there to eliminate arguments about ""will this plan pass through Congress"" and focus on the actual merits of the plan. Mandate 2. Inadmissibility I believe Con is confused on this issue. Before this plan, Officers would make handwritten notes of the interrogation, then submit that as evidence to the court. Under my plan, handwritten notes of the interrogations would not be acceptable simply because the police department has a video/audio recording of the interrogation. It is assumed I mean handwritten notes of the interrogation. Mandate 3. Exceptions Once again this plan will be passed because of fiat power, but only if you vote Pro, which is another reason to vote Pro. 1) Conceded by Con 2) Many times malfunction does not become apparent. A backup system would cost more. This is not a reason to vote against me, especially since malfunctions are rare. This is simply a safeguard. 3) The reason this exception is in here is because it's in the statutes of the states that record interrogations. It's simply wise to have this in here, although it doesn't provide any kind of hindrance to the recording process. An example of national security is if the suspect knows about something that is not supposed to be publicized. Obviously, this is a rare occurance and nothing to roll over in your grave about. Funding: Here is how I got the estimate. This is a maximum estimate based on simple logic. Step 1: Each room costs 7,500 dollars at maximum. (3) Step 2: Interrogation rooms are most likely used at least 10 times a year. Step 3: There are 175,000 suspects at the federal level who get interrogated. (4) Step 4: Doing the math, there are therefore 17,500 interrogation rooms, ten suspects each. Step 5: Multiplying 17,500 by 7,500 per room gives us the estimated cost of: 131,000,000. I apologize it is off by 20 million, but given the number that is insignificant. The fact is, it's only an estimate, but it's a maximum estimate. 7,500 dollars is the most it can cost per room, and to think that interrogation rooms are used less than 10 times a year is unreasonable. Thus, this is an estimate of the maximum my plan will cost. Remember that the agencies that pay for this plan have substantial discretionary budgets, so this costs about .00001 times their budgets. Regarding Con's question, the police departments will choose where to get the interrogation systems. Advantage 1. Officers and suspects protected 1. It is not true that my evidence is void without said definition, because this is from a credible source saying that interrogators can not use improper tactics because they're being recorded. 2. Improper tactics are defined by the current system. It is not necessary to know how they are defined. An example of an improper tactic is physically abusing/torturing a victim. Once again, this definition is not necessary. The evidence is merely explaining that whatever police officers are not allowed to do in interrogations would be deterred by recording. 3. Con ignored part 1 of this advantage: the fact that officers are protected from unwarranted allegations Advantage 2. Wrongful convictions 1. The actual amount of false confessions is unknown: because they're false, and they're confessions. When someone confesses to a crime that he didn't do and gets sentenced, many times it is not found whether he is actually guilty or not. 2. This is not the only reason to pass the plan. Advantage 3 and 6. This is a misunderstanding of the context of Advantage 3. Let me requote it: ""Recording alsoleads to greater efficiency, in that an objective record of the interrogation would reduce the need for and duration of pre-trial hearings on suppression of confessions, as there would be a clear and comprehensive record for the judge or jury to review."" As you can see, it is BECAUSE the jury gets to review actual evidence that time is saved. Basically, the amount of disputes about what happened in the interrogation room if there is no recording are diminished. Less disputes = time saved. Secondly, where did Con get ""12 hour interrogation"" from? Advantage 4. Money Saved The evidence is not based on my estimation, it's based on empirical experience that recording saves money in the long run. This has been done at a state level, so we can see from past experience that it saves money. One reason it saves money is the lowered amount of disputes. For example, if there is no recording of the interrogation, a defendant can claim he was physically abused and sue the interrogator, and he might even get away with it. In that case, the amount of money lost outweighs the money for the recording equipment with my plan. Let me quote another piece of evidence regarding cost: ""Many police with whom we have spoken have observed that their expenditures are de minimus [minimal] when compared to the resultant savings. As discussed in Part IV, recording custodial interviews reduce pretrial disputes, lead to inreased plea bargains, reduce the risk of civil suits, and prevent convictions of innocent persons based on erroneous testimony."" (5) Advantage 5. Improved interrogation I believe this is confusion on the part of Con. When an interrogator is trying to find faults in the suspect's testimony or draw out a confession, taking notes is simply required because he needs to be able to testify as to what the suspect said, and for him to testify he needs to remember what to say. Taking notes simply distracts him from the interrogation because he has to pause to write things down. Also remember this is evidence form a credible source, not just a statement by me. Significance As stated before, 175,000 suspects are interrogated each year. 175,000 interrogations are changed by this plan. That is significant. Conclusion Con has been slightly confused on the issue of fiat power, which was the reason for his attack on mandate 1. I've responded to all his arguments, and I would like to note one thing: The only evidence Con has read is that there are two bills that tried to do the same thing (irrelevant), and that false confessions are rare (irrelevant, since false confessions are not the only reason to record). He seems to be ignoring that ALL of my advantages had evidence, and the citations are in the pastebin link. In order for him to prove his point he needs to reply to my evidence with credible evidence of his own. Thank you, and vote Pro to gain six significant advantages, and to step forward in technology. (1)http://www.thefreedictionary.com... (2)http://exp.etelos.com...http://www.judiciary.state.nj.us...;(Supreme Court Special Committee on Recording Interrogations) (4) http://bjs.ojp.usdoj.gov...;(Bureau of Justice Statistics) (5) http://business.highbeam.com... (Thomas P. Sullivan)"	PRO	933
933	S418a9f82-A87aa5ba8	Resolved: The US Federal Government should significantly reform its Criminal Justice System (Policy)	"In an age where computers, cellphones, and even new calculators have cameras, it is a wonder that the criminal justice system has not fully caught up in technology: especially the federal government. The lack of technology and archaic methods of investigation in the federal government is an issue brimming with opportunity, and potential. Because the criminal justice system has potential that is being unused, I stand firmly: Resolved: The United States Federal Government should significantly reform its criminal justice system by recording interrogations Let’s examine two terms that will be used frequently in today’s debate round. Definition 1. Custodial interrogation “Custodial Interrogation"" means an interview which occurs while a person is in custody in a Place of Detention For the purposes of this round, I will be defining a place of detention as a federal agency’s interrogation room. Definition 2. Electronic recording “Electronic Recording"" means an audio, video or digital recording of a Custodial Interrogation, beginning with a law enforcement officer's advice of the person's constitutional rights and ending when the interview has completely finished.” With the definitions in mind, let’s move on to… The criterion, or the way I would ask you to weigh this debate round, is net benefits. Interviews are not recorded. Although federal courts are tentatively starting to record, and many state police departments are recording interrogations, Thomas P. Sullivan, stated that “Federal investigative agencies do not routinely record custodial interviews. Rather, agents still make handwritten notes and later prepare typewritten summaries. This practice is sorely out of date.”[1] Because the practice of handwritten notes is sorely out of date, I propose the following plan to enhance the federal criminal justice system. Agency and Enforcement: The United States Federal government Mandate 1: Mandatory Recording Congress will pass a law mandating that all federal custodial interrogations performed by federal agencies are electronically recorded. Mandate 2: Inadmissibility Handwritten notes will no longer be accepted as evidence. Mandate 3: Exceptions The following is a set of permissible reasons to provide handwritten notes: 1) If the suspect request that he not be recorded. This statement should be recorded. 2) Equipment malfunction. 3) If the federal officer reasonably believed that recordation would risk disclosure of classified information, and recorded an explanation of the basis for this belief. Funding: Funding will be appropriated by each federal agency as necessary. The estimated cost for this plan is 110 million dollars. The Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Justice would be paying for most of this, and they have extremely large budgets. In fact, this plan would cost .00001 times their budgets. [2][3] Timeline: Implementation will begin immediately after an affirmative ballot. Recording will be mandatory in two years. This plan would not only solve the problems with the status quo, but would also create several distinct advantages. Advantage 1. Officers and Suspects Protected One of the many problems with handwritten notes was the amount of arguments about whether or not the police officer used improper tactics to coerce a confession. Thomas P. Sullivan testifies to the usefulness of recording interrogations. “Recording custodial interviews is a tremendous benefit to the criminal justice system. A permanent record is created of what was said and done, how suspects acted, and how officers treated suspects. Officers are no longer subjected to unwarranted allegations about abusive conduct; those who may be inclined to use improper tactics cannot do so because their actions and words are being recorded.”[4] Advantage 2. Decreased possibility of wrongful convictions One of the most important advantages to this plan is that false confessions are easier to detect. Richard f. Ofshe, professor of sociology in the university of California, states that “Taping also allows third parties to resolve the courtroom ""swearing contests"" that arise when the suspect and the police offer conflicting testimony about what occurred during interrogation. In disputed confession cases the discrepancies between police officers' and defendants' accounts clearly indicate that one of the parties is either lying or mistaken. Of course, interrogators are sometimes falsely accused of deviant conduct. In the usual case, however, the police officer's testimony is treated as far more credible than the citizen's, whose reputability is compromised by his status as a criminal defendant. In many of the cases documented in this article, however, the interrogator claimed that the confessor supplied information that only the perpetrator could have known--only to have the suspect subsequently proven innocent and his ignorance of the crime facts revealed. To more accurately resolve whether the interrogator used coercion, whether the suspect knew the facts of the crime, and/ or whether he was made to confess falsely, one conclusion is inescapable: interrogations must be recorded in their entirety. ""[5] Advantage 3. Efficiency Another benefit of recording custodial interrogations is that the whole system becomes more efficient, time-wise and accuracy wise. The Justice Project and Pew Charitable Trusts wrote in 2007: “By preventing wrongful convictions, electronic recording of custodial interrogations benefits the criminal justice system as a whole by increasing reliability and efficiency. Fewer wrongful convictions helps increase public confidence in the system. Recordingalsoleads to greater efficiency. in that an objective record of the interrogation would reduce the need for and duration of pre-trial hearings on suppression of confessions, as there would be a clear and comprehensive record for the judge or jury to review.This saves attorney, judge, and court personnel time and expense.”[6] Advantage 4. Money Saved Even though this plan would cost at maximum 110 million dollars at the front-end, money would actually be saved in the long run. Thomas P. Sullivan stated: ""Most costs come on the front end, and they diminish once the equipment and facilities are in place and training has been given to detectives. In contrast, savings continue so long as electronic recording continues. ""[7] This evidence supports the fact that in the long run, as a taxpayer your money would be saved. Advantage 5. Improved Interrogation The police officer’s concentration is improved by recording. This is confirmed by Thomas P. Sullivan: “Without the need to make detailed notes, officers are better able to concentrate on suspects' demeanors and statements. They no longer have to attempt to recall details about the interviews days and weeks later when recollections have faded.”4 Advantage 6. Increased prosecution evidence The Supreme Court Special Committee on Recording Custodial Interrogations found that: “Even if the defendant does not provide a confession, recordation of the entire interview allows the jury to see consistencies or inconsistencies or the evolution of a defendant’s responses to police questions.”[8] In the end, we see that switching from old-fashioned, hand-written notes to electronic recording will benefit the criminal justice system as a whole, providing a comparative advantage. Because the potential in interrogations is limited by our current system, I ask you to support reforming the criminal justice system, and do so by enacting our plan. CITATIONS HERE: http://pastebin.com... Note: I am sorry for bad formatting, this speech is already done in microsoft word"	PRO	934
934	S6de6bca4-Ae70b9526	Which is more moral? Man or YOUR god of the bible or torah? Take a morality test to find out its man	"OKEE DUKEE here""s how I run things"" if there is the slightest hint of you inventing excuses from something in which you clearly know nothing about, especially when its the subject in which you claim to professing you have knowledge upon, namely this one, and you really don""t, and yet you pretend that you do by coming up with invented excuses and or flat out lying, I will insult you with my brand of insults that are original, funny, stupid, deranged and walls to the ball insane, unless those excuses are so far fetched that they are clearly pulled off from your groin to be a groin pull from the gold-i-lox area to keep scientists looking for other planets, then all bets are truly off and I may end the debate right then and there because I DO KNOW my stuff, whereas most don""t. And you don""t with your invented excuses in which you strayed from the subject. OK let""s get right into it as I did not have space from the last RD to fire it up. But this RD I do since you think your NT is better than the OT (sorry, its far far worse) Oh and btw, sorry, there""s almost no voters on these subject who really gives a damn to even care. So your lame a$$ preschool gesture to get others to side with your stupid little battery powered easy bake oven in an attempt to both bake and fry water does indeed fall flat on your splattered cabbage batbrain. Suppose you ""think"" and ""dream"" that you are a christian? Here""s a few questions of YOUR NT... What do you think about slavery? Slavery, owning people as property was ---never--- repealed by your god or christ anywhere in YOUR horrific bible. Do you think that slavery is a good thing? Y____? N____? Why? Why Not? MT 18:25, EPH 6: 5-8, COL 3: 22-24, TIT 2: 9-10, 1 PET 2: 18-21 as examples. Do you think ""hell"" is a good thing? Y____? N____? Why? Why Not? And Specifically that people should suffer eternal torment and go to hell simply for not believing in christ Y____? N____? Why? Why Not? Specifically that if someone rapes, beats and tortures 6 five year old girls and then finds christ this person will have a spot saved in heaven Y____? N____? Why? Why Not? I asked you before ""Do you think you should die for merely cursing at your parents? Y____? N____? Your god thinks so. Mark 7:10 ""For Moses said, Honour thy father and thy mother; and, Whoso curseth father or mother, let him die the death:, Matthew 15:4 ""For God commanded, saying, Honour thy father and mother: and, He that curseth father or mother, let him die the death."" Do you think suffering, pain and torture is a good thing? Y____? N____? Why? Why Not? Specifically do you think that christ""s suffering was a good thing and him being tortured on the cross? Y____? N____? Why? Why Not? Specifically what can children learn from suffering? If you""ve answered ""nothing"" you""ve answered correctly. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Now getting back to the OT here""s some stuff that got left out"" * Do you believe that its perfectly OK for your god to hate on children and babies for no reason at all and in some cases murder them? Y____? N____? Why? Wny not? LM4: 9-11, MT 10:37, MT 2:16, JG 21:10, 2 SAM 12:11-14 which is truly sick and disgusting, DT 2:34, NU 31: 17-18, LV 26: 21-22, 1 SAM 15:3, HS 13:16, 2 KS 15:16, EZ 9: 5-7, HS 9: 11-16, EX 12: 29-30, IS 13: 15-18, MT 2:16, (EX 21:17, LV 20:9, MK 7:10, MT 15:4, MT 10:21), JG 11: 30-33, PS 137: 8-9, 2 KS 6: 28-29, DT 21: 18-21, DT 32:25, DT 2: 32-34, DT 3: 3-6, JG 19: 24-29, EX 12:29, 2 HS 2: 23-24, LV 26:29, JM 11: 22-23, JM 19: 7-9, JM 51: 22-26, 2 KS 8: 9-15,LM 2: 20-22, RV 2: 18-23 (btw with this one some of them are from your lovely NT so you have no excuses) * Do you believe that its perfectly OK for YOUR god to hate on women? Y____? N____? Why? Why Not? LM 4 9-11 sick and disgusting, HS 13:16 sick and disgusting, JD 21:10, 2 SAM 12 11-14 sick and disgusting, DT 2:34, NU 31 17:18, LV 26 21:22, 1 SAM 15:3, HS 13:16 sick and disgusting, DT 2 32-34, 2 KS 8: 9-15, 2 KS 15:16 sick and disgusting, EZ 9: 5-7, HS 9: 11-16, 2 KS 6: 28-29 sick and disgusting, JD 19: 24-29, LM 2 20-22 sick and disgusting, 1 COR 14:34,1 TY 2:12 (yes, some are from the NT so once again you have no excuses) * Do you believe that its OK for your god to love rape? Y____? N____? Why? Why Not? NU 31: 17-18, 2 SAM 12: 11-18 sick and disgusting, JD 19:24-29, JD 21: 10-24, DT 20: 10-14, DT 22: 28-29, DT 21: 10-14, JD 5:30, EX 21 7-11, ZE 14: 1-2 * Do you believe that its pe-re-fe-ct-ly OK for YOUR god to commit abortions? Y____? N____? Why? Why Not? So that means YOU as a supposed christian (tee hee) do not follow YOUR god which is extremely hypocritical and contradictory from his bible HS 13:16 sick and disgusting, 2 KS 8: 9-15 sick and disgusting, 2 HS 15:16 sick and disgusting, HS 9: 11-16, and perhaps the biggest acts of abortions were committed in the great flood according to this so-called god of the bible in the great flood (which never happened btw) so who knows how many pregnant mothers died there in his bible? * Do you believe that YOUR god was just with his many genocides for no reason at all as NOBODY HAD TO DIE in which many of them killed innocent babies, children and pregnant mothers? Y____? N____? Why? Why Not? Indeed god is far far far worse than Hitler, Mao, Pol Pot, Stalin, Hong Xiuquan, all serial killers, all rapists, all tortures, all pedophiles, all sadomasochists etc etc etc combined. After all god knowingly created them which means that he is ultimately responsible for them. Its either that or god is not a god and lets them off the hook with nothing but a tap on the shoulder for their horrific, disgusting, repugnant crimes and simply god---does---not---care. Now here's some examples of god""s sickened, diseased, abominable atrocities for absolutely no reason at all... the great flood according to the bible (which never happened btw) so who knows what the body count was there? 3,000 EX 32:27-28, 14,700 NU 16:49, 24,002 NU 25: 1-11, 12,000 JOS 8: 1-25, 10,000 JG 1:4, 120,000 JG 8:7-10, 42,000 JG 12:3-6, 1,000 JD 15:14-15, 3,000 JD 16:27-30, 25,101 JD 16:27-30, 1 SAM 4 34,002, 1 SAM 6:19 50,070, 2 SAM 8 65,850, 1 KI 20: 28-29 100,000, 1 KI 20: 30 27,000, 2 KI 19 35 -37 185,000, 2 CHR 13 17-18 500,000!!!!, 2 CHR 28:6 120,000, Esther 9:5-18 75,813, 2 CHR 14: 9-14 1,000,000!!! etc Yeah god is really so moral huh? Nope. Again all of the questions are required to be answered by a ""no"" response. So if you have responded with a ""no"" response to all of the questions, congratulations, this means you are moral and sane and not bullied by a horrific god that you cannot even prove even exists. So then the next question needs to be asked is where do you think you stand with YOUR god? Then the next question needs to be asked, which is the most important one of all ""why do you believe?"" With the follow up question ""why 'should' you believe since your god is in no possible way moral?"" Since you have reached this far with answering ""no"" to all of the questions, then it is also quite simple, and it means that you disobey the direct rules, laws and actions of your god. 1. Boring. Has nothing to do with the conversation. Instant detete. 2. ""My opponent claims that I have redefined the rules of the debate."" Absolutely you have when you arrogantly brought in ""the law"" which doesn""t exist. And you decided to also insert ""christ"", a false prophet as proved unto you, in which had ab-so-lu-te-ly nothing whatsoever to do with the debate. To help you out with that here""s a video for you to watch which knows one helluva lot better than you"" http://www.youtube.com... - Atheist Debates ""But that""s the old Testament"" Ah yes, my lack of the knowledge of the bible and yet I will ---always--- know more about your god - in which you cannot even prove even exists - the bible - in which your god would --- never--- use text as a form of communication, the worst form of communication possible, and religion than your yodeling grunge brain ---ever--- will. 3. ""My opponent asks for proof that the New Covenant fulfills the Old Covenant. Oh no. I didn""t ask for proof of it. I proved you wrong that it doesn""t exist. I""ve been doing this for 43+ years and have talked to probably 22,000 on this and wow what an excuse you came up with.Again, god's law was ""perfect"" and cannot be changed and he did not change ANY of his laws from the OT so they still stand firm and tall. Just because you know absolutely nothing about your god, religion, and bible doesn't mean the world doesn't. Oh and oh yeah, you go right ahead and tell every---single---jew on this planet that they are wrong with their beliefs you complete arrogant a$$. GET UP AND DO IT RIGHT NOW!!!!!!! Here""s another video for you to watch since you think you are MR. god""s gift to invented excuses. But nah I know you better than you know you. Since you think you know everything that there is to know about everything, you will not watch it in case that you will be proven wrong because you are a super big He-Man who is The Power attacking a roll of t.p. with a bunch of smiley faces on it. Oh please. http://www.youtube.com... - top 10 reasons why the bible is repulsive Now since you clearly had to invent YOUR own excuses, and yeah flat out lie from something is which you clearly know absolutely nothing about, and you know it, especially to someone that knows better, and I do now better, a lot better, this debate is now over. I ---never--- deal with that crap from anyone. See, I can back up what I say with something called ---evidence---. And you have nothing but invented excuses. Bye."	PRO	935
935	S6de6bca4-A386c2e58	Which is more moral? Man or YOUR god of the bible or torah? Take a morality test to find out its man	"So now Backwardseden has both dropped every single talking point of the last round, but also decided to derail the rest of the debate with 3 pages of nonsense. Incredibly, he has graduated from non-sequiturs to run-on sentences and completely pointless fragments of isolated rhetoric like ""sick and disgusting"" without any indication as to what he is referring to, or how it even remotely helps his arguments. I will add the Backwardseden says that ""(he) runs things here"", but he has already lost by his own rules, and has resorted copy-pasting blocks of Bible verse indexes all over the page without a single explanation of how they link to resolution. Additionally, his conclusion is more profanity and anti-semitism than argument. First, let us look at all of Backwardsedens nonsensical, and pointless questions, which I would answer a simple ""no"" to, if they weren""t completely loaded: 1) ""Is it ok for Jesus to hate children?"" Where are you getting your information from "" Reddit? I can""t imagine why anyone would think that someone who was crucified for his followers could be accused of hating children, but I""ll humor you and address your collage of Bible verses. Deuteronomy 2:34 states that an invading army left no survivors, which doesn""t even fit the context of the contention. In Numbers 31:17 God commands the Israelites to basically completely destroy a city of wicked people. Backwardseden seems to love to point out the fact that God had wrath in the Old Testament making him immoral, but for this to stand Backwardseden must prove that the people of the Old Testament were not wicked. Even if you want to argue having wrath towards a completely moral-less people in the time before Grace and the New Testament was immoral, Backwardseden is too late to the scene to prove the ethics. 2) ""Is it ok for Jesus to hate woman?"" Once again, Backwardseden provides not a shred of explanation as to why he would believe this, so I can""t even fathom giving him credit for this. Once again let""s look at some of his verses: Lamentations 4:9 is a poem someone in the Bible wrote about being a warrior and not wanting to starve, which is the most unrelated thing imaginable to the contention. Deuteronomy 2:32 is also about battle, and half the other verses he lists are the same type of thing. The fact is, Backwardseden is grabbing at straws. He doesn""t make a single complete argument, or even a complete thought once in the first 30 lines of this round. I could pass up on this round entirely, and my previous argument would still stand. 3) ""Is it ok for God to love rape?"" Just like the last two, Backwarseden lists 30 verses, without one word supporting this twisted, and frankly disturbing claim. I won""t even recognize it as a complete thought. 4) ""Is it ok for God to commit abortions?"" Still not backing up a single word of this. Here are some verses Backwardseden lists: HS 15:16. The is one book with an ""H"" and an ""S"" which is Hebrews, and it doesn""t even have 15 chapters. Two thirds of the verses listed are like this. Backwardseden hasn""t even read the nonsense that he is copy-pasting all over the page. 5) ""Was God Just in his many genocides?"" If he is referring to the great flood, then once again the burden falls on him to prove the ethics of this, because I could simply point out that the people of Earth were so wicked, that they did all the things you list above on a daily basis. And if we are counting actions of wickedness here as the bar for morality despite that fact that I have ALREADY PROVEN that humanity""s morals are relative, then I would point out the every day people kill thousands of other people and commit huge atrocities. Would Backwardseden be the one to levy judgment? No, because he can""t even wrap his mind around the resolution of the debate. He then lists verses Exodus 32:27 followed by what I assume are numbers of deaths in wars, some in the thousands. To this, I would simply mention that those were battles and that in this century alone, humanity has made those numbers look like child""s play. To prove that God""s wrath is unjustifiable, Backwardseden should have been debating ethics last round, but he gave up challenging my framework, that the morals he is arguing are relative. 6) On my argument being boring: I""m sorry that you have zero debate skills friend. 7) On the redefinition of debate rules: I have followed Backwardsedens rules and absolutely crushed his arguments. He then tells me to watch a video! This is a debate, not a Ted talk. 8) On Proof that the Old Cov is fulfilled by the New Cov: Whilst not completing a single thought, Backwardseden lets loose a stream of anti-semitism, profanity, and complete nonsense. The proof still stands. 9) On the invention of excuse: This doesn""t even make sense. Conclusion) Backwardseden has filled this debate with unrelated and unfounded rabbit trails and side tangents, stopping every few sentences to make a wild accusation that has no substance. *He didn""t make a SINGLE full contention this entire round, and has made a total of two even remotely complete contentions this entire debate, both of which had nothing to do with his own resolution.* In my arguments, I successfully upheld my framework that any single set of morals must come from a person""s religion and by association God, and that a society""s morals cannot be concrete but that they are relative, and change with the beliefs of its members. Because of this, the resolution has been negated, and my argument that Man cannot be more moral than God stands. Ending statements: I just want to say I'm disappointed that this debate because so brutal. I began by extending cordiality to Backwardseden who received me with insults and profanity. I was hoping to unearth some truth here, but I ended up having to pone a noob."	CON	936
936	S6de6bca4-A50767da7	Which is more moral? Man or YOUR god of the bible or torah? Take a morality test to find out its man	"Here is a test for YOUR morality to see where YOU stand with YOUR god with how he believes from what is stated directly from the bible and or torah. It is a simple ""yes"" or ""no"" response. Its only a couple of things. There are many more questions that could have easily been asked that have been left out that will be addressed should this debate get into further rounds if this debate lasts that long. * Do you think you should be put to death just because you blaspheme? Y____? N____? Your god thinks so. Leviticus 24:16 ""And he that blasphemeth the name of the Lord, he shall surely be put to death, and all the congregation shall certainly stone him: as well the stranger, as he that is born in the land, when he blasphemeth the name of the Lord, shall be put to death."" * Do you think you should die if you work on the sabbath? Y____? N____? Your god thinks so. Exodus 31:14 ""Ye shall keep the sabbath therefore; for it is holy unto you: every one that defileth it shall surely be put to death: for whosoever doeth any work therein, that soul shall be cut off from among his people."", Numbers 15: 32-36 "" And while the children of Israel were in the wilderness, they found a man that gathered sticks upon the sabbath day. 33 And they that found him gathering sticks brought him unto Moses and Aaron, and unto all the congregation. 34 And they put him in ward, because it was not declared what should be done to him. 35 And the Lord said unto Moses, The man shall be surely put to death: all the congregation shall stone him with stones without the camp.36 And all the congregation brought him without the camp, and stoned him with stones, and he died; as the Lord commanded Moses."" Notice jesus worked on the sabbath, he was not put to death. Strange? That supposed ""law"" that christians use is in ill effect and does not work. * Do you think you should die for merely cursing at your parents? Y____? N____? Your god thinks so. Exodus 21:17 ""And he that curseth his father, or his mother, shall surely be put to death., Leviticus 20:9 ""For every one that curseth his father or his mother shall be surely put to death: he hath cursed his father or his mother; his blood shall be upon him."", Mark 7:10 ""For Moses said, Honour thy father and thy mother; and, Whoso curseth father or mother, let him die the death:, Matthew 15:4 ""For God commanded, saying, Honour thy father and mother: and, He that curseth father or mother, let him die the death."" * Do you think you should die if you commit adultery? Y____? N____? Your god thinks so. Leviticus 20:10 ""And the man that committeth adultery with another man's wife, even he that committeth adultery with his neighbour's wife, the adulterer and the adulteress shall surely be put to death."" * Do you think you should die if you are a homosexual? Y___? N____? Your god thinks so. Leviticus 20:13 ""If a man also lie with mankind, as he lieth with a woman, both of them have committed an abomination: they shall surely be put to death; their blood shall be upon them."" * Do you think you should die if you worship other gods? Y____? N____? Your god thinks so. Deuteronomy 13: 9-10 ""9 But thou shalt surely kill him; thine hand shall be first upon him to put him to death, and afterwards the hand of all the people. 10 And thou shalt stone him with stones, that he die; because he hath sought to thrust thee away from the Lord thy God, which brought thee out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage."" AND 17: 2-5 ""2 If there be found among you, within any of thy gates which the Lord thy God giveth thee, man or woman, that hath wrought wickedness in the sight of the Lord thy God, in transgressing his covenant, 3 And hath gone and served other gods, and worshipped them, either the sun, or moon, or any of the host of heaven, which I have not commanded; 4 And it be told thee, and thou hast heard of it, and enquired diligently, and, behold, it be true, and the thing certain, that such abomination is wrought in Israel: 5 Then shalt thou bring forth that man or that woman, which have committed that wicked thing, unto thy gates, even that man or that woman, and shalt stone them with stones, till they die."" These plus many more completely absurd examples show how completely inane and insane this biblical god is, as well as completely immoral. Yet no one can even prove he even exists. Wow even worse is how many of the examples that are listed above are taken directly from the 10 commandments THAT EVERYBODY SHOULD FOLLOW? What's worse is this so-called god would never use text as a form of communication, the worst form of communication possible. Simply put, if you answer ""yes"" to ---any--- of the questions, it means you are totally bankrupt, corrupt, and immoral, just like your unproved god clearly is in your shallow mind and you need not respond as everybody who is sensible and intelligent knows where you stand as every single response absolutely requires a ""no"" response, no exceptions, none. So if you have responded with a ""no"" response to all of the questions, congratulations, this means you are moral and sane and not bullied by a horrific god that you cannot even prove even exists. So then the next question needs to be asked is where do you think you stand with YOUR god? Then the next question needs to be asked, which is the most important one of all ""why do you believe?"" With the follow up question ""why 'should' you believe since your god is in no possible way moral?"" dsjpk5 will not be allowed to vote in the voting process."	PRO	937
937	S989b71f6-A7cb724e8	Resolved; The United States Government ought to guarantee Universal Health Care to its Citizens	"I will present my own case in this round; I will rebut the Affirmative case next round. However, I will provide some definitions of my own at this juncture. Definitions: U.S. "" the government of the United States. (American Heritage.) Ought "" desirability (Encarta.) Aff defines ""ought"" as indicating morality, however this is not always the case. For example, the statement ""you ought to go left to avoid traffic"" is not dealing with morality, but rather with desirability. Therefore, prefer this definition. Observation One: ""Ought"" expresses a moral obligation. A moral obligation, according to philosopher J.O. Urmson, is contingent upon capacity. For example, if a man who cannot swim sees a person drowning, the man is not obligated to jump into the pool to save the drowning individual, as that would endanger two lives. It would be unfair to demand that one do something they can""t. But, if one can swim, then one does have an obligation to jump in to save the person. If you have the ability to do good, you ought to do good. Basically, Urmson contends an actor, like the U.S., cannot have an obligation if that actor lacks the ability bear it. Observation Two: The resolution, by its own wording, is U.S.-specific. I Value Societal Welfare, defined as the health and safety of a society. Ultimately, this value is intrinsically linked to the notion of healthcare, because of the broad social impacts associated with it. Furthermore, the importance of the community is affirmed by Prof. Jane Dryden, ""autonomy""does not provide an adequate notion of the human person as embedded within and shaped by societal values and commitments""we do not choose our values and commitments from the position of already being autonomous individuals; in other words, the autonomous self does not exist prior to the values and commitments that constitute the basis for its decisions. To deliberate in the abstract from these values""is to leave out the self""s very identity, and that which gives meaning to the deliberation."" The Criterion therefore is Rousseau""s Social Contract. It differs from Locke""s insofar as it advocates that government should provide for the public good""not merely three specific rights. As Rousseau himself stated, ""The sovereign is thus formed when free and equal persons come together and agree to create themselves anew as a single body, directed to the good of all considered together."" This sentiment is echoed across many social contract theories, particularly in the notion that government is there to serve the people, not to serve itself. At the same time though, a government must act pragmatically, for the benefit of the whole, even if this means some harm for the minority. Prof. Gary Woller furthers, ""Appeals to a priori moral principles""often fail to acknowledge that public policies inevitably entail trade-offs among competing values. Thus since policymakers cannot justify inherent value conflicts to the public in any philosophical sense""the policymakers' duty to the public interest requires them to demonstrate that""their policies are somehow to the overall advantage of society."" Ultimately then, the government, the U.S., ought to act in such a way as it benefits the most people. It is my belief, that in such stressed economic times, it would be too risky to implement UHC, and thus the U.S. ought not to do it. Contention One: Universal Healthcare would require the government to exhaust enormous funds that it simply lacks. Sub-point A: Universal Healthcare would entail massive costs for the U.S. According to Dr. Ezekiel Emmanuel and Prof. Victory Fuchs, ""universal health insurance would be underwritten [by the U.S.]""with administrative costs exceeding $145 billion."" Professors Chua Kao-Ping and Fl""vio Casoy further, observing that the Institute of Medicine estimated the additional healthcare costs from the presently uninsured being covered by universal healthcare would be around 69 billion dollars per year, and that this number does not even assume that structural changes, delivery financing, scope of benefits, or provider payment might be adversely affected. They go on to state that ""there is the possibility that covering the uninsured through a public insurance program may tempt employers to drop coverage and push their employees onto the public insurance program,"" further increasing the cost of the program for the U.S. According to Reuters, 40 million Americans would need subsidized or free health insurance to be provided to them by the government. As reported by the Tax Policy Center and Reuters, currently, 760 billion dollars in spending and 600 billion dollars in tax cuts are being used to offer like subsidies. That number would need to increase even more should all of the U.S. be covered, and may virtually destroy what is left of U.S. finances. Sub-point B: The U.S. economy is too fragile to handle the added expenses. According to Robert Merry, ""US public debt exceeds 70% of the economy, nearing the danger point of 90%. With national debt projected to reach 16.6 trillion dollars this year, that ominous percentage looms."" The Congressional Budget Office reported that 15 trillion dollars in spending reductions are needed simply to maintain current debt-to-GDP levels. Even more is needed to reduce the overall debt. It warns that U.S. debt may exceed 100% by 2020 and 190% by 2035. Included in its recommendations was a reduction of healthcare subsidies, many of which would be necessary for universal health care. Economists Buchanan, Gjerstad, and Smith, in a study they conducted this year, stated, to survive economically, we must pursue a policy of fiscal consolidation, including a sharp reduction in domestic spending. This would seem to rule out additional healthcare related expenses. They warned ""added spending that would naturally accompany any expansion of the system could cause a return to recession. Claims that healthcare would help millions are clearly contradicted by the fact that such a policy could economically harm millions more."" Sub-point C: Such spending would also be fruitless and wasteful even if implemented. Prof. James Taylor notes that, should Universal Healthcare be implemented, ""special interest groups can capture resources through lobbying, perverting them away from their efficient allocation."" According to Emma Roberts, universal healthcare would be unsustainable, ""countries with universal health care struggle to sustain efficiency. Canada and Australia ranked lowest, according to the Commonwealth Wealth Fund study, in accessibility of physician appointments and wait times for basic medical services, as well as specialist care, tests, etc. Other efficiency issues noted by the study included""misplacing medical records and tests."" Prof. Jeffery Miron adds that, ""Subsidizing health insurance means that patients and doctors are insulated from the costs of health care, so they utilize too much""often in the form of unnecessary tests or medical procedures."" Sub-point D: Interestingly enough, universal healthcare isn""t really universal. As reported on ABC News, ""A national shortage of general practitioners means that 1.7 million Canadians don't have access to a regular doctor to go to for routine care. In England, shortages of dentists have caused hundreds of people to wait in line just for an appointment""One British hospital even tried to save money by not changing bed sheets. Instead of washing them, a British newspaper reported that the staff was encouraged to simply turn the sheets over. At any given time in Great Britain, there are over half a million people waiting to get into a hospital for treatments."" The crux of this point is that many of the benefits claimed by proponents of UHC fall short, because UHC is only ensuring a portion of the population. Essentially, guaranteeing universal healthcare would jeopardize our economy, and is, consequently, not the best course of action for our society. As Urmson notes, moral obligations are contingent on our ability to bear them""and quite simply, we can""t. Prof. Allen Buchanan put it best saying, ""a right to healthcare becomes implausible simply because it ignores the fact that in circumstances of scarcity the total social expenditure on health must be constrained by the need to allocate resources for other necessities."" Thus, I urge a negative ballot."	CON	938
938	S62a7f62e-A8f3bfa93	"""Love exists in the life"" - does not prove its value!"	"Well, TUF, first of all I thank you for your reply to my challenge or debate proposition. But It very surprised me when you wrote some framework rules. Except a couple of points as if the rest were directed to win the debate taking occasion to lack in my English grammar knowledge. I think we both should pay or give priority to the validity and logicality of statements, right? -------------------------------------------------- First thing you should had taken account was logical understand my saying. I wrote: ""theory of ""Love exists in the life"" is much more weak than the theory of ""Life exists in the love"". I does not mean that love does not exist in the life. I have never said it and will not. You began your debate with giving definitions to words separately as if we were analyzing its words. And you chose the definition which would made you more comfortable to go on this philosophical discussion. I strongly say and give you a golden advice ""Never do that"". Because if you choose something yourself when that thing is belonged not only you it is counted a single-sided decision. Okay, let's skip it. You paid you attention to dividing the One saying into the parts, in result you came to nothing more than its technical aspects. Philosophical sayings are never based on dictionaries' pages. They are full of logical and feeling aspects - the step which you face on next stations with. Therefore I prefer to skip all the definitions you gave. --------------------------------------------------- About your contentions now. You were absolutely true in ""In order for love to exist, life must first exist"". Even you stated the famous classic argument of ""Did the chicken come before the egg?"". - But don't you know, The God created us with Love? - But don't you know, before to begin life with a girl we base on: I love her/him or do not? The rest of your contentions are continued on the base of your first contention. Therefore I am to skip them too. Have you ever read or heard the story about ""The Mom with one eye""?. If not, try to understand a reason of why your mom does not desert you if she loves you? She loves you that's why your family life is continuing. Dear, TUF, I know that love exists in the life, but I said ""Life exists in the love"". When you love somebody or something then the mutual attitudes last long long time. This is LIFE! ------------ For anyway, my respect to YOU."	CON	939
939	S62a7f62e-A5500d1f9	"""Love exists in the life"" - does not prove its value!"	"Wow... Erm... Interesting response there... Well I guess this will be simple, because my opponent has dropped and conceded basically Everything. ****REBUTTALS**** "" But It very surprised me when you wrote some framework rules. Except a couple of points as if the rest were directed to win the debate taking occasion to lack in my English grammar knowledge. I think we both should pay or give priority to the validity and logicality of statements, right?"" Of course this debate is meant to weigh the validity and logic of statements. Framework is a common formality for debaters to set up. Me being the Pro for this debate, thus has the burden to present it. At least that is how is works here on Debate.org. I am sorry if you have problems with the rules that were set up, though it would help if you pointed them out specifically. The grammar? I said that would be judged normally. Meaning it's the debaters choice to grade that. In any case, Debate.org has a Spelling and grammar checker that will fix any and all errors you may encounter, so no worries their. Basically the purpose of framework is to keep the debate from becoming a sloppy mess, and helps the debaters and viewers read through each other arguments respectfully. ""First thing you should had taken account was logical understand my saying. I wrote: ""theory of ""Love exists in the life"" is much more weak than the theory of ""Life exists in the love"". I does not mean that love does not exist in the life. I have never said it and will not."" I fail to understand what your point is here. My entire case is built on proving the value in weighing life over love, and creating examples philosophically about how this is true. By ignoring this you are playing a semantics game. What am I supposed to argue? It's almost as if you expect me to say something like: ""Well sometimes life can exist in love, but ultimately love exists in life."" Can you see how weak of a statement that is? Good sir, you really have not specified 1 tiny thing about what your actually attempting to prove here. As the instigator of this debate, it is YOUR responsibility to add clarity to what you want the debate to actually be about. I accepted this debate, not really knowing what in the world you were talking about, thus is why I made arguments from several different view points to attack your case. Dear audience, surely this is deserving of a conduct point. ""You began your debate with giving definitions to words separately as if we were analyzing its words. And you chose the definition which would made you more comfortable to go on this philosophical discussion. I strongly say and give you a golden advice ""Never do that"". Because if you choose something yourself when that thing is belonged not only you it is counted a single-sided decision."" You are clearly new here to debate.org, so I will go easy on you on this one. Normally I would say something like ""Are you freaking serious!?"". Definitions are standard here on DDO as well. They count as sources as they help add clarity to resolutions. Your very confusing resolution sir, was in desperate need of definitions with the extreme lack of clarification put into your opening argument. You could say I very well ""saved"" this debate. Also what do you mean ""Never do that""? You don't actually give any reason why that is socially un-acceptable? Definitional framework helps provide the readers with a better understanding of the debate. Again, you are new here, so I will overlook this. Opponents can agree with definitions without having a ""single-sided"" decision. ""- But don't you know, The God created us with Love?"" Maybe your faith tells you this, but this is purely belief. First of all you must prove that a god created life (not that I want to get into a debate on religion, as I am purely agnostic), but second of all, even if there is a god who created us, who are you to say it was out of love? For all you know this ""god"" put is here just because he could, and wanted to see what he could create. - But don't you know, before to begin life with a girl we base on: I love her/him or do not?"" Actually this is completely 100% false. Plenty of guys go to clubs and pick up girls they don't love, just so they could have a ""fun time"". Loving someone to create life, doesn't even enter into the equation. ""In 2008, approximately 1.21 million abortions took place in the U.S., down from an estimated 1.29 million in 2002, 1.31 million in 2000 and 1.36 million in 1996. From 1973 through 2008, nearly 50 million legal abortions have occurred in the U.S. (AGI)."" http://www.abort73.com... A lot of these come from one night stands, and people wanting to have fun. Romance barely enters into creating life these days, my naive friend. ""The rest of your contentions are continued on the base of your first contention. Therefore I am to skip them too."" Oh really now? This is what leads me to believe you didn't even try to read my case, If you had, then clearly you would find error in your statement. My first contention clearly states the philosophical arguments of ""what came first"" in which you basically conceded and agreed with me on. My second contention strictly argues the resolution prima facie at face value. I talk about the specific value that can come from prioritizing life over love as pertained by the resolution. This contention literally has nothing to do with my first contention. Dear audience, contention 2 has been dropped and conceded. Thankyou. My third contention specifically states how love can only exist because of life's existence. This is completely different as well from both contentions 1 and 2, as it states the scientifically reasons why the two are different, and why life takes priority to love. Dear audience, contention 3 has been dropped and conceded. Thankyou. ""Have you ever read or heard the story about ""The Mom with one eye""?. If not, try to understand a reason of why your mom does not desert you if she loves you? She loves you that's why your family life is continuing."" I completely agree that my mom loves me and that my mom will not desert me. I can say however that ultimately it is true for everyone else. Hundreds of mothers around the world love their babies, but are forced to leave them for some reason or another. Either way, this point of your means nothing in context to your own resolution. A mother loving and not deserting her child, doesn't mean that love doesn't exist in life. ****CONCLUSION**** So yeah.... Looks like my opponent dropped literally my ENTIRE CASE. Please push over arguments and conducts for this. I have proven through several different theories, that life cannot exist through only love, philosophically, scientifically, and valuably. My opponent has yet to actually attack my case. He still has 4 rounds to do so however, so I wish him the best of luck in the remainder of this debate! Thankyou, audience, for reading."	PRO	940
940	S62a7f62e-A1c123863	"""Love exists in the life"" - does not prove its value!"	"You do not know anything but laughing, abasing and blackmail. Because you are not able to make a thought beyond having a ""fun time"" and humburger. Having a ""fun time"" (you wrote it as a normal life living style) and humburger - it is your all you will have and reserve after you in this life. dear debate.org viwers and checkers, voters! Please give him the priority. Because within the debate he repeatedly has been turning to you. He extermely wants to winn. TUF, from this time I offer you to join the debate if you understand its gist, its philosophical meaning. Thanks to audience."	CON	941
941	S5751e75f-Acb5f9498	India treats its minorities better than Pakistan	"India which is a secular and democratic republic is often questioned about its treatment of Muslims by its Islamic neighbour Pakistan, However Pakistan often forgets about its own treatment of minority groups, whose rights are far more disrespected in Pakistan rather than in India.Pakistanis are never falling behind to tell the World that a Hindu Nationalist Party is now in power in India however even this Hindu Nationalist Party was the one that nominated APJ Abdul Kalam, a Muslim, for the prestigious post of the President in its last term. Furthermore, there have been 2 previous Muslim Presidents in India. In comparison to that the highest ranking Hindu Politician in Pakistan was Jogendra Nath Mandal who was the Minister of Law and Labour that too way back in 1950. Let us get fake Pakistani liberal concern out of our way. Pakistan was born out of the notion that Hindus and Muslims cannot live together. India lives on as proof that the two-nation notion was just exploitation of religious emotions. India has not withered away; on the contrary, it has prospered.We have hit rough patches off and on but compared to Pakistan, we enjoy more freedom and greater security. Minorities, especially Muslims, do find the going tough sometimes, but they have equal rights.The current mood of despondency will also give way to hope and how soon that happens depends upon the new dispensation.But Indians do not have to denounce a minority to qualify for an Indian passport.Every Pakistani has to sign on a form that outcasts Ahmadis to apply for a passport.India has had its majority-minority divide, sometimes with bloody consequences, but we have not reached that level of disgrace. Nosy neighbours forget to look at their own backyards. Muslims die in dozens every day in Pakistan because government policy has nurtured and used terror as a tool against its neighbours.Now let's deal with our own. Is it as bad as critics claim? Let's first recognise that 22 Muslims in a 543-member house is a figure that sounds under-representative. It's important to recognise that.But looks are deceptive. That the 22 Muslims represent Muslims is a flawed idea. They represent their constituencies, people who voted for them and people who didn't. They do not represent Muslims. Like a Hindu MP does not represent Hindus. Mulayam Singh Yadav of the SP lost many seats in Uttar Pradesh probably because he was perceived as representing only Muslims. Is he counted among the 22?Shahnawaz Hussain of the BJP lost the election, but had he won, would he represent Hindus or Muslims? His party is perceived to be representing Hindus.If that is the case, Bulo Mandal, who defeated Hussain, is a RJD candidate, who won because of Muslim support, will end up representing Hindus and not his core voters.So is the meagre figure of 22 not a cause of concern? It is.But contrary to what many believe, it is not a crisis of Muslim representation in parliament. It is symptomatic of a crisis of leadership in the community. The quality of leadership, the Sangh-inspired discourse of otherness, the skewed and much-abused politics of secularism - all keep the community in perpetual panic.The rise of a party that has many right-wing, venom-spewing Giriraj Singhs does scare the hell out of not just Muslims or minorities but also the majority of right-thinking people.Even the Right-thinking among them feel disgusted. But it's not the Togadias, Girirajs, Owaisis or other loonies of the kind who decide state policy. It's the state governments and the government in Delhi. Modi has a record to set straight. The ghosts of 2002 will not go away with a victory. He will triumph only when he finds that much-needed balance. He is here with a popular mandate. He has been saying the right things. Now, he has to be seen doing the right things.The fear, though exaggerated, is not baseless. It's time to face that fear. It's time for Modi to address the concern. That there are only 22 Muslim MPs in the Lok Sabha is not one of them. The Electoral Process for Non Muslims is within itself controversial In 1980s Zia ul-Haq introduced a system under which non-Muslims could vote for only candidates of their own religion. Seats were reserved for minorities in the national and provincial assemblies. Government officials stated that the separate electorates system is a form of affirmative action designed to ensure minority representation, and that efforts are underway to achieve a consensus among religious minorities on this issue. But critics argue that under this system Muslim candidates no longer had any incentive to pay attention to the minorities. Pakistan's separate electoral system for different religions has been described as 'political Apartheid'. Hindu community leader Sudham Chand protested against the system but was murdered. In 1999, Pakistan abolished this system. On 28 June 2001, the Supreme Court ruled that non-Muslims may vote for any candidate at the Union Council level for seats reserved for mayor, deputy mayor, laborers, farmers, and women. However, non-Muslims still are barred from voting for Muslim candidates who run for general seats. Three of the five rounds of elections already had occurred prior to this ruling. Few non-Muslims are active in the country's mainstream political parties. Christian and Hindu leaders conducted a boycott to protest against the system of separate electorates during the local elections. In October 2000, a coalition of Christian non-governmental organizations sent a petition to Pakistan's president, Pervez Musharraf, requesting a dialogue between the government and minority religious leaders on the controversy. The government did not acknowledge receipt of this petition. The Pakistani position on Ahemadis is even more controversial.The Pakistan government does not ban formally the public practice of the Ahmadiyya, but its practice is restricted severely by law. A 1974 constitutional amendment declared Ahmadis to be a non-Muslim minority because, according to the Government, they do not accept Muhammad as the last prophet of Islam. However, Ahmadis consider themselves to be Muslims and observe Islamic practices. In 1984, under Ordinance XX the government added Section 298(c) into the Penal Code, prohibiting Ahmadis from calling themselves Muslim or posing as Muslims; from referring to their faith as Islam; from preaching or propagating their faith; from inviting others to accept the Ahmadi faith; and from insulting the religious feelings of Muslims. This section of the Penal Code has caused problems for Ahmadis, particularly the provision that forbids them from ""directly or indirectly"" posing as Muslims. The Ahmadis must not use the standard Muslim greeting form and must not name their children Muhammad. The constitutionality of Section 286(c) was upheld in a split-decision Supreme Court case in 1996. The punishment for violation of this section is imprisonment for up to 3 years and a fine. It has been alleged that this provision has been used extensively by the Government and anti-Ahmadi religious groups to target and harass Ahmadis. Ahmadis also are prohibited from holding any conferences or gatherings. Doesn't all this effectively equal to the suppression of the Ahemadis? India on the other hand doesn't ban or censor any religious group from any such activities. Pakistani Penal Code articles 298 and 295 and its sections are the very proof of religious intolerance in the Pakistani Constitution. No such articles are present in the Indian Constitution. With this I would like to end by Argument on the Treatment of religious minorities in India and Pakistan."	PRO	942
942	Se3d210c2-A7172a2fc	Resolved: The US should remove its tactical nuclear weapons from Turkey	"Answer 1: Seeing as how there would still be over 250 US nuclear weapons in Europe after America removed its arsenal from Turkey, I don't believe that this would undermine NATO cohesion, and therefor would be a justified action in regards to NATO. Answer 2: Understand that I am not a expert on Foreign Policy but it is my belief that if Turkey was attacked or was in need of American assistance that the US would support that aid. A US Democratic Party delegation group met with Turkish officials in Ankara on 30 May to confirm, ""Turkey can always depend on the US, while the US can always rely on its close friendship with Turkey."" This statement is what I based my answer on. Answer 3: Removing nuclear weapons from Turkey does not mean that the US would no longer support NATO. It would be more beneficial for the safety of Turkey to put troops there, not unusable nuclear bombs. The current NATO policy would only call for nuclear weapons as a last case scenario so in this case I believe removing the weapons would actually support both NATO and the US in the long run."	PRO	943
943	Se3d210c2-A9e17380f	Resolved: The US should remove its tactical nuclear weapons from Turkey	"Ok, same to you! The first reason I believe that the US should remove its nukes from Turkey is because those nukes serve no tactical purpose. This is true because they no longer are able to be quickly deployed in response to any situation that would require them. When the Cold War was under way, the US strategy at the time called for nuclear weapons in Turkey in order to protect against soviet invasion of Europe. When the weapons were in their prime, the time it would take to deploy them was measured in minutes and hours. Now according to NATO the weapons ready time is measured in weeks and months. In addition there is no American air wing or Turkish air unit currently stationed in Turkey that is rated ""nuclear capable""[1]. This shows how little these weapons mean to the US nuclear strategy. The impact of this is that because these weapons serve almost no military value or importance the US should remove them. [1] http://thebulletin.org..."	PRO	944
944	Se3d210c2-A567a2631	Resolved: The US should remove its tactical nuclear weapons from Turkey	"Under NATO's policy of nuclear deterrence, the nuclear weapons serve as a political deterrant from nations and factions from attacking the Turkish nation. In addition the weapons despite currently serving no tactical deterrance, are symbolic and show that the US is still committed to assisting NATO allies. The gesture of the US to loan nuclear weapons to NATO allies is significant since it prevents the US from simply saying to turkey in times of Turkish strife, ""yeah, we'll support you."" while not even deploying its military. (http://www.defense.gov...)The gesture of keeping nuclear weapons prevent a similar vocal but litte support currently seen with France. Currently France is fighting alone against Mali insurgents who have beaten back Mali government troops. France's allies have expressed vocal support, but in actuallity they have only sent the bare minimum to support the French. In fact the African Union forces who are supposed to take over still haven't mobilized troops, and won't even be in Northern Mali until next week.(http://news.yahoo.com...) Thus inorder to prevent NATO allies from committing acts of minimal support the US should still retain its Nuclear weapons arsenal in Turkey,"	CON	945
945	Se9199f6b-A9272c119	Science loses its privileged place at the centre of the universe as a privileged knower- we now have	"con says ""Pro asks for sources regarding solipsism. "" What I asked for was sources supporting your claim that dean was not original You said deans thesis was unorginal -deans thesis as the post tells you ""is Science loses its privileged place at the centre of the universe as a privileged knower"" but I asked not for sources on solipsism but sources which are saying deans thesis deans thesis is ""Science loses its privileged place at the centre of the universe as a privileged knower"" you have not backed up your claim that deans thesis is unorginal with sources which show dean is just saying others have said on the thesis ""Science loses its privileged place at the centre of the universe as a privileged knower"" as for the rest of your rejoinder points I will let those who want to plow through your points the pleasure but to the point you have given no refutation of deans thesis deans thesis is ""Science loses its privileged place at the centre of the universe as a privileged knower"" the only source you quote is wiki on solipsism which is not a refutation of deans thesis deans thesis is ""Science loses its privileged place at the centre of the universe as a privileged knower"" what you needed to do was give argument and sources to support a refutation of dean and that would have entailed EVIDENCE that science IS A PRIVILEGED knower of the universe you have given neither thus my post is not refuted I have backed up my claims with sources from books and scientists you have done neither thus my post is not refuted"	PRO	946
946	Se9199f6b-Aaff72cec	Science loses its privileged place at the centre of the universe as a privileged knower- we now have	"It seems to be accepted-without proof- that ""man"" is somehow a privileged knower of the universe This scholar points out Science loses its privileged place at the centre of the universe as a privileged knower- we now have a new Copernican revolution -man is decentred http://www.scribd.com... Man can not know the universe as his language used to know it only falsifies the universe. This results in the death of man i.e. the death of asserting a privileged observer of the universe. All we have is an endless free play of words trying to capture the universe but all these words are man""s own creation which in fact falsifies the universe. With the decentring of man from the universe we have no guaranteed facts or interpretations which are authoritive since the words we use for these facts or interpretations only falsify the referents. The universe is now seen as being that which is produced by man via his culturally arbitrary conventional systems of signs i.e. language. As Zajak notes ""particles and waves are macroscopic concepts which gradually lose their relevance as we approach the submicroscopic domain.H.Zajak,. Optics, Addison Wesly Publishing Company, New York., P. 449 Bohr said ""The very words physicists use to describe reality constrain their knowledge of it and scientists in every field will one day encounter this barrier to human understanding."" A. Wick, The Infamous Boundary, Birkhauser, Berlin, 1995 p.39 Bohr said "" the role of theory is to predict what we see on the dails of our apparatus they say if the predictions are accurate the theory is god Answering these other questions about what is really going on -is a meaningless excersise."" V, Stenger The unconscious Quantum, Prometheus books, 1995, p 10 "" [operationalism]To avoid the imprecision""s of ordinary speech [Bridgman] identified the meaning of a concept in terms of the set of operations used to measure it .. He considered the difference between laboratory physics and the cosmology of general relativity to be the difference between science and nonscience."" A. Bulock & O Stallybrass & S. Trombley, ""Operationalism in The Fontana Dictionary of Modern Thought, Fontana, 1988, p.609 ""Einstein""s famous rejection of the concept of absolute simultaneity on the grounds that the simultaneity of events is always relative to the frame of reference of the observer, who is assessing it, is operationalism in spirit."" P, Barry, Beginning theory, Manchester university press, 2002 p 113"	PRO	947
947	Se9199f6b-A654ed5c5	Science loses its privileged place at the centre of the universe as a privileged knower- we now have	As you have neglected to establish where the burden of proof rests, I will assume you are comfortable with taking it on (as you are the one asserting something less than intuitive). Colin Leslie Dean is a hack who's never been accepted as a reliable source, nor published academically. But, let's skip the ad hominem reasons for disregarding his work and instead critique his ideas, shall we? His thesis, as I interpret it, is that due to limitations in language, scientific observations cannot be elocuted with complete accuracy, thereby undermining the accuracy of the theories and principles we promulgate. Even if he was accurate in this (which he is not-- by it's very nature, language evolves in order to properly express abstract ideas and innovations), this does not exactly ADD anything to human scientific or philosophical understanding. In essence, it's merely an appeal to a lingual, rather than general sensory, solipsism; an idea held in some scorn for its status as untestable and unfalsifiable nature. Indeed, even if we accept it as fact (which no right-minded person would), we are left with two options: either we renounce all attempts to understand the universe, or we proceed in our current manner regardless. In this way, Mr. Dean's thesis is both of no value, and as merely a reapplication of solipsism, unoriginal.	CON	948
948	Se9199f6b-Ab0bfb605	Science loses its privileged place at the centre of the universe as a privileged knower- we now have	"you say ""Colin Leslie Dean is a hack who's never been accepted as a reliable source, nor published academically. But, let's skip the ad hominem reasons for disregarding his work and instead critique his ideas, shall we? His thesis, as I interpret it, is that due to limitations in language, scientific observations cannot be elocuted with complete accuracy, thereby undermining the accuracy of the theories and principles we promulgate. Even if he was accurate in this (which he is not-- by it's very nature, language evolves in order to properly express abstract ideas and innovations), this does not exactly ADD anything to human scientific or philosophical understanding. In essence, it's merely an appeal to a lingual, rather than general sensory, solipsism; an idea held in some scorn for its status as untestable and unfalsifiable nature. Indeed, even if we accept it as fact (which no right-minded person would), we are left with two options: either we renounce all attempts to understand the universe, or we proceed in our current manner regardless. In this way, Mr. Dean's thesis is both of no value, and as merely a reapplication of solipsism, unoriginal. point 1 con says ""Even if he was accurate in this (which he is not"" but has given no proof of this statement point 2 con goes onto says Even if he was accurate in this (which he is not..., this does not exactly ADD anything to human scientific or philosophical understanding."" just because it adds nothing to scientific or philosophical understanding this is no logical refutation of deans thesis point 3 con says ""Indeed, even if we accept it as fact (which no right-minded person would), we are left with two options: either we renounce all attempts to understand the universe, or we proceed in our current manner regardless. In this way, In this way, Mr. Dean's thesis is both of no value, and as merely a reapplication of solipsism, unoriginal. "" Being a no right-minded person is not a refutation I bet in his day Galileo was considered a no right-minded person point 4 con says ""either we renounce all attempts to understand the universe or we proceed in our current manner regardless.In this way, Mr. Dean's thesis is both of no value"" just because Mr. Dean's thesis is both of no value is no refutation I bet some said the same about Galileo thesit 5 con says ""Mr. Dean's thesis is both of no value, and as merely a reapplication of solipsism, unoriginal."" con says deans thesis is unoriginal - so who else has said deans thesis but con has given us no sources of others which agree with deans thesis so this is again no refutation of deans thesis"	PRO	949
949	Se9199f6b-Abe7a4706	Science loses its privileged place at the centre of the universe as a privileged knower- we now have	"P1. Pro misquotes me by omission, here. He selectively reproduces the prelude to my argument, while leaving out the argument proper. It is reproduced here, in full, for posterity: ""Even if he was accurate in this (which he is not-- by it's very nature, language evolves in order to properly express abstract ideas and innovations)"" P2. Pro again misquoted me by omission. See P1 regarding the inherent nature of language. If one desires an example of a lingual innovation in order to express a novel concept, consider the word ""McMansion"", defined by Merriam-Webster's online dictionary as: Main Entry: Mc""Man""sion"" Pronunciation: \mək-G2;man(t)-shən Function: noun Date: 1990 : a very large house built in usually a suburban neighborhood or development ; especially : one regarded critically as oversized and ostentatious Note the date: 1990. This is evidence that new words are being coined to fill novel needs. P3. Pro again misses the refutation. P4. Pro acknowledges that Dean's thesis is of no value. Occam's razor states that we should not multiply complexities unnecessarily. As Dean's thesis is of no value and does not ADD anything to human scientific or philosophical understanding, and therefore adds an unnecessary, complex layer to it, it should therefore be sheared. P5. Pro asks for sources regarding solipsism. As it is a relatively common concept, I did not believe a source necessary, however I will comply. According to Wikipedia: ""As an epistemological position, solipsism holds that knowledge of anything outside one's own mind is unsure. The external world and other minds cannot be known ... As such it is the only epistemological position that, by its own postulate, is both irrefutable and yet indefensible in the same manner."" In arguing that language in insufficiently precise to articulate ideas accurately, Pro is, in substance arguing that we cannot know what others observe, that we cannot, in essence, know the universe as we translate our visceral experience into language and incorporate it into what we know anecdotally. Indeed, his very thesis that ""man cannot know the universe"" is merely paraphrasing solipsism's definition. Further, by asserting that language is sufficiently flawed that we cannot know, his argument can be neither proved (which would constitute knowing), nor disproved (since that would also constitute knowing). Unfortunately for pro, as he has not argued my assignment of the burden of proof to him and has, we must assume, therefore accepted it, he logically cannot fulfill his obligations since, if he is correct, by his own postulate it cannot be proven."" http://en.m.wikipedia.org... http://i.word.com..."	CON	950
950	Sa3d8c12d-A56ea6f2e	The Power of words and its effects	Based on foundational teachings and beliefs within the religious mindset and a few secular mind, it is adapted and believed that the power of life and death lies within the tongue. We all know that based on how an argument, statement or just about any vocal/ audible means of communication has an influential or intimidating effect on its audience weather direct or in directly. It has an effect on an individual consciously or subconsciously that will cause that individual to react to that media transmitted or the transmitter relatively. This issue has now being thrown out for the views of others concerning this topic to be expressed openly and justified based on their faith on this issue. WELCOME ALL?	PRO	951
951	Sa3d8c12d-A499a23de	The Power of words and its effects	"While the cons point is considerable, The fact of words holding powers of their own, I can justify by the illustration of "" How the reaction of a person when an utterance is heard. And the point of words instability to be uttered on its own. of course not. Can the wind speak?"	PRO	952
952	Sd0cb1704-A1e972462	The Hokey Pokey is What its All About	"- Law of Series My opponent recognizes in their counterargument that the lyrics are ultimately absurd, which is the point I was trying to make; the song is absurd and is therefore a reflection of the absurd reality of life. ""If coincidence is the case, then its a coincidence that doing the Hokey Pokey is included in the lyric in the first place, whereas if its not coincidence and that there is indeed a deeper meaning and science to the song as Beitman would argue that there is, then 'turning yourself around' is placed in the lyric for a legitimate reason, which means that 'Doing the Hokey Pokey' can only be what PART of it's all about, if anything at all"" It may be argued that 'turning yourself around' is an unconscious metaphor for passing away. Therefore, you 'do the hokey pokey' - living the absurd existential life - and then you turn yourself around. What was it all for? nobody knows. It's absurd. Again, we are all living the lives of sisyphus. - Collective Unconscious That my opponent has made up their own fictitious study in order to refute the notion that the hokey pokey is a reflection of the meaning of life should already invalidate this refutation, but neverthess: ""you do the hokey pokey and you turn yourself around, that's what its all about"" is contained within the song, implying ""that's what its all about"" concerns the nature of the meaning of ""what its all about"", or in other words, ""what the meaning of life is"", which is ""the hokey pokey"" which is ""absurd"". - Aristotle vs Einstein If I took apart a camera, all of its pieces would be useless. If I held all the taken apart parts in my hand, it would still be useless. However if I put the camera back together again, then I now have something I can take a picture with. In this way, the whole is more than the sum of its parts. Einstein would have been right in terms of science, but looking at things philosophically is about understanding things as they are and what their ultimate meaning is, whereas science only shows us hard facts that tell us neither what something is nor what its ultimate meaning is. - Literalism Ultimately my opponent is taking the lyrics too literally. In order to understand the genius of the hokey pokey, one must look at it symbolically; philosophically. Philosophy and science are not the same schools of thought ultimately and although they can be used together it would be a mistake to consider them to be the exact same thing."	PRO	953
953	Sd0cb1704-Ac1943c57	The Hokey Pokey is What its All About	The Hokey Pokey is what its all about. First round is for acceptance, Second round opening arguments, Third round is for rebuttals Fourth round is for more rebuttals and concluding arguments Lets do this. This debate is existentially necessary. We absolutely have to do this right now.	PRO	954
954	Sd0cb1704-A81876222	The Hokey Pokey is What its All About	I accept this debate and will argue that doing the hokey pokey is NOT what its all about, because turning yourself around is an integral part of what its all about. To shine the light exclusively on the hokey pokey itself is to completely ignore the vital importance of turning yourself around, which is why I felt compelled to accept this debate Over to you Pro	CON	955
955	Sd0cb1704-Aba39b930	The Hokey Pokey is What its All About	"Thank you imabench,I will now say why the hokey pokey absolutely is what its all about. First, the lyrics of the song can be found here: http://www.metrolyrics.com... - The Law of Series over the past century, the Law of Series has been repeatedly observed without fail. It is a law which suggests that coincidence does not exist, and that all things that exist have a reason for existing. The Law of Series has also been called ""meaningful coincidence"". In the early 1900's, Dr. Paul Kammerer was a scientist who first discovered this phenomenon. He writes, ""On July 28, 1915, I experienced the following progressive series: (a) my wife was reading about ""Mrs Rohan"", a character in the novel Michael by Hermann Bang; in the tramway she saw a man who looked like her friend, Prince Josef Rohan; in the evening Prince Rohan dropped in on us. (b) In the tram she overheard somebody asking the pseudo-Rohan whether he knew the village of Weissenbach at Lake Attersee, and whether it would be a pleasant place for a holiday. When she got out of the tram, she went to the delicatessen shop on the Naschmarkt, where the attendant asked her whether she happened to know Weissenbach on Lake Attersee - he had to make a delivery by mail and did not know the correct postal address."" The famed psychologist Carl Jung himself seconded this idea. In his observation, ""Jung claims that in 1805, the French writer Émile Deschamps was treated to some plum pudding by a stranger named Monsieur de Forgebeau. Ten years later, the writer encountered plum pudding on the menu of a Paris restaurant, and wanted to order some, but the waiter told him the last dish had already been served to another customer, who turned out to be de Forgebeau. Many years later, in 1832, Émile Deschamps was at a diner, and was once again offered plum pudding. He recalled the earlier incident and told his friends that only de Forgebeau was missing to make the setting complete — and in the same instant, the now senile de Forgebeau entered the room."" Kammerer and Jung went on to observe even more instances of these real life events. In fact, Kammerer invented his own system describing the Law of Series and the importance of the 'coincidence' based on its number of immediate repetitions. Therefore, if coincidence does not exist in the sense that most people perceive it to be, then the lyrics to the song ""Hokey Pokey"" must not be a coincidence, and must in fact be metaphysically meaningful in some way. Such as, ""you do the hokey pokey and you turn yourself around, that's what its all about"". - Collective Unconscious Carl Jung also coined the theory of the collective consciousness, that all human beings are somehow unconsciously psychologically linked with one another. Considering the lyrics of the hokey pokey must then be linked with such a collective consciousness must mean that human beings somehow unconsciously know why the hokey pokey is the meaning of what its all about. In Carl Jung's words, ""The collective unconscious - so far as we can say anything about it at all - appears to consist of mythological motifs or primordial images, for which reason the myths of all nations are its real exponents. In fact, the whole of mythology could be taken as a sort of projection of the collective unconscious... We can therefore study the collective unconscious in two ways, either in mythology or in the analysis of the individual. (From The Structure of the Psyche, CW 8, par. 325.)."" And, to further prove this theory, the U.S. National Library of Medicine states, ""Recently described social network phenomena show that emotionally connected people come to share certain traits, including obesity, happiness, and loneliness. These do not appear to be mediated by face-to-face contact. Other examples of groups with a common connection that act in unison are mass hysteria, menstrual synchrony, and the ability of a group to guess the number of jelly beans in a jar. The animal kingdom abounds with examples of groups functioning as a single whole: fish school, birds flock, hoofed animals herd, ant and bee colonies work as a single organism. Try as they might, neuroscientists have been unable to find an anatomical seat of consciousness within the brain. C.G. Jung's realization of a collective unconscious began with an observation of a patient whose thoughts matched previous writings that the patient had never seen. The ""emotional telepathy"" of social network phenomena suggests a collective/communal consciousness as well."" - The abstract meaning of the lyrics themselves include nihilist and absurdist influences. The song is rediculous and meaningless, and that is why it is a description of 'what its all about'. Life itself is rediculous and meaningless. Absurdist and nihilist, in a sense. Well, maybe not nihilist, per se, but could we ever know? The only way to refute the hokey pokey is to say that we can know precisely what this dance means, but alas, we may never know what it means to ""put your left foot in and shake it all about"". Our entire lives are defined as an absurd dance full of fun and laughter, only to end when we 'turn ourselves about' by passing away with our last breath. Did it mean anything? maybe not. But did we have fun? Yes. It's about being Albert Camus's hero, Sisyphus - doing something completely rediculous and possibly even meaningless repeatedly, but rebelling against the absurdity of it all by smiling and laughing at it. And that is why the hokey pokey is what its all about. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov... http://www.scholarpedia.org... http://www.truthinsideofyou.org..."	PRO	956
956	S7c24da4d-A8c0fb2a1	Its good that restaurants ban smoking indoors	"Going off my opponents argument about how it is not my business. No, it is not my business and i cannot tell owners what to do. But that is not what we are debating here. This isn't literal where i am saying that we should or shouldn't tell owners what to do. this is about how it is good if a restaurant bans smoking. Not should we make owners turn their restaurants into non-smoking restaurants. Its the idea of it. I also am not telling people what they can and cannot put in their bodies like i said earlier. If i said ""we should ban smoking"" then i would be telling people what they can and cannot be putting in their bodies. In this situation, it is simply that you shouldn't put that in your bodies HERE. Not that you shouldn't do it, just that you cant do it HERE. There is a big difference. My opponent says ""on a property that is not yours and that which you do not own and are not entitled to have a say on"" Why are we still talking about this? No it is not my property, i am merely arguing why they SHOULD make it smoke free. Not why they NEED to. My opponent said "" for all restaurants to ban smoking is certainly not fair."" Like i said in my earlier argument, and i quote ""Sure, some restaurants could have smoking"" My opponent must have been mistaken or mis-read my argument. For i did not say that all restaurants should ban smoking. My opponent states "" it is discriminatory against smokers who now would have to leave the property to smoke "" Really? if that is discriminatory, then wouldn't it be discriminatory against people who don't smoke, to allow smoking in a restaurant? They would ""now would have to leave the property"" as you said earlier about smokers. You could argue that anything is discriminatory if it leaves someone out. So my statement that ""not all restaurants would need to be non-smoking"", pretty much makes my opponents entire last paragraph untrue, as he was arguing to the point that all restaurants would be non-smoking. The reason i stated facts about second hand smoke was because i wanted to let the reader know, how dangerous second hand smoke is, and how it would effect people if they were exposed to it in a restaurant. My opponent says in the comment section ""A public place is different as it not owned by a private individual , Restaurants , pubs and such are not really 'public places' therefore it should be up to the owner to decide how to run his business."" Did i use the definition of a public place wrongly? I know a restaurant is owned by someone, and therefore it is their decision. Like i have said many times, this isn't about forcing owners to do this, its the idea that it SHOULD be this way. Thank you."	PRO	957
957	Saadb9de8-Aee260e25	The US should discontinue its use of private military contractors	"Thanks blackvoid. I'll be re-grouping all the arguments into a more convenient order and internally, I'll extend my arguments and address the main voting issues. 1. Brain Drain My opponent hangs most of his case on this argument. His own source says that the brain drain is unique to specialized workers, like Navy SEALS, not the average soldier. And without PMC's willing to pay them more, for all we know these SEALS would retire, and we'd lose them anyway. Remember, 50% of our military is composed of contractors, according to the CRS, and most of them do base support and logistics, not soldier duty. When a PMC needs someone to do laundry, they hire unskilled labor. When a PMC needs a construction worker, they hire a construction worker. If they need a translator, they hire someone that speaks English and Pashto. This is much more efficient than what the military used to do: take regular soldiers and have them to laundry, teach them to do construction, and make some of them learn Pashto to become translators. Most of what PMC's do is noncombat, so the argument that PMC's are poaching a few soldiers who would have re-enlisted does not prove that without PMC's there would be enough personnel. Replacing laundry workers with troops is a bad use of resources, no matter how you look at it. Also, the fact we achieve huge cost savings with PMC's proves that most PMC's pay less than the military, except for particular specialized personnel like Navy SEALS. Without contracting with civilian translators, the military would have to train their own, which is costly and would take many years. Extend my turn that this empirically damages relations between local civilians and our troops, since if they can't communicate, when our troops do search missions they have to adopt more brutal tactics when they can't ask nicely to search a home. My opponent is advocating a huge change from the status quo and never explains how the military would replace one out of every two essential personnel. Congress would be so desperate next time we needed to fight a war that they would have to implement a draft, something that no one wants. 2. Civilian casualties turn people against us If my opponent loses brain drain, he loses this argument since it's his only response to the Senlis Afghanistan evidence, that when we have fewer boots on the ground, we have to rely more on air support, which kills many times more civilians. And General McChrystal was fond of saying that every dead civilian means 10 more insurgents join the cause. Getting rid of the maintenance workers and communications specialists on the bases will mean the military will have to shift more soldiers to base support, which means more reliance on air support in the field. The Wikileaks evidence does say that our military was responsible for the 15,000 civilian casualties that they had failed to disclose; why else try to hide these deaths? So I've provided evidence that our military killed 15,000 people in Iraq, and my opponent provides evidence that PMC's killed maybe 100 civilians. Obviously, PMC's are no worse, and are in fact better than our military. Lastly, remember the CRS evidence that the new Armed Contractor Oversight Division decreased the number of times that PMC's fired weapons by 67%, getting them to obey clear rules of engagement. My opponent makes a big deal that I ""dropped"" his argument, which was just a quote from the report that the CRS had some concerns that the army might not sustain the oversight. No evidence is provided that the DOD didn't sustain this division. 3. PMC's work both sides My opponent never provides evidence that PMC's have started WORKING FOR the Taliban. He provides evidence that we fund local warlords (whose affiliation is unknown), but remember my argument that in the world's second most corrupt country, we have to tolerate some things that we prefer not to. Warlords set up checkpoints along roads and demand money. It's easier for a PMC that we pay for logistics (to transport supplies) to just pay the extortion fee than to hire a huge security detail to fight off the warlords. My opponent claims his evidence says that PMC's pay the Taliban to attack them. First, this makes no sense; they are putting their own lives and supplies in danger if they do so. Second, the part of the sentence he cuts out says that this is one of many ""allegations"" and the source provides no evidence to back this allegation. Lastly, we wouldn't hire a contractor that worked with our enemies, and just like we have agreements with procurement companies that they can't sell US military technology abroad without our approval, we can also limit who PMC's work with. 4. Other disads My opponent doesn't extend his impacts here. It's just one example of a contractor building something badly and the army doing a terrible job of being accountable and reporting electrocution incidents to the contractor through proper channels. Once they were reported, KBR did country-wide inspections and repairs. That covers my opponent's case, now moving back to my own. 5. Better oversight than the regular military The DOD now has an Armed Contractor Oversight Division, which appears to have been effective in getting contractors to obey clear rules of engagement, decreasing the amount of times contractors resorted to using weapons by 67%. The army has no such oversight division if a soldier misfires a weapon; in fact, Wikileaks proves that empirically the military tries to cover up such incidents rather than holding soldiers accountable. I also made the argument that the new Status of Force agreements in Iraq and Afghanistan have clauses that the two countries cannot prosecute our soldiers (who have immunity), but for the first time, may prosecute our PMC's. [1] The source I provided last round showed a case where a contractor was jailed under Afghan law. As far as money, at least there is a division to oversee contractor expenses. No such division exists for the regular military, and we should assume there is widespread waste there as well, but unfortunately, the military refuses to publish a breakdown of its expenditures. Chalmers Johnson in ""Dismantling the Empire"" talks about a secret golf course the military set up in Kuwait for officers to take vacations from Iraq. Even with some abuse, contractors are still much cheaper. It costs 90% less to hire a contractor for logistical support than for the military to do this itself, according to the CBO. If PMC's waste some money that just means it could actually be 95% or 99% cheaper, with more oversight. My opponent claims my source says soldiers are cheaper than PMC's in war time, but this is simply not the case. The source says PMC's are $15,000 cheaper in peace time. It says nothing about war. 6. Humanitarian assistance Remember my argument that PMC's can do a lot of good in the world because they allow presidents to intervene to stop genocides, when they don't have the political cover to send in the regular military. MPRI stopped the Balkans from breaking down into a protracted civil war when Yugoslavia split into different nations. My opponent claims that his Sierra Leone evidence is about peacekeeping, but it isn't. It said that when the government hired (African) contractors to fight the rebels, they also gave guns to rebels. The U.S. could use PMC's to save hundreds of thousands of lives, stopping genocides like in Rwanda. Blackwater says that they would welcome the opportunity to do peacekeeping. 7. Guard Duty The Iraqi Army does not do guard duty; they have other things to worry about. Extend my turn that local police are viewed as thousands of times more corrupt than contractors. Without contractors, our State Dept officials would have no protection in Iraq. Voting Aff and getting rid of the PMC's that guard them signs their death certificates. [1] http://en.wikipedia.org..."	CON	958
958	Saadb9de8-Ad3badb7e	The US should discontinue its use of private military contractors	"I thank my opponent for his response. I'm fine if he refutes everything else in next round. I expected that he would just post his case first then refute mine in the next round, but its ok. If he wants to put sources in comments to save space, dont penalize him for it. First his arguments, then mine. Observation I agree. In this debate I will prove that contractors are worse than the military and that we can function without them. C1) Force multiplier Con brings up how only a minimal amount of military troops can be deployed at once, and that PMC's help maintain bases, cook food, etc. 1. The only reason we have a troop deficit is because PMC's siphon them away. If one wants to be in a military profession, why would you go to the military and be subject to constant training, when you could join a PMC and be paid hundreds of dollars a day? According to Schreier and Caparini (1), the military is suffering from an intense ""brain-drain"" of skilled military workers by PMC's. They offer money to potential and current military members and they leave to go work with contractors. Thats why we dont have enough troops. 2. Besides, we have enough troops to do these things anyway. In 2006 we had 140,000 troops in Iraq (2). Now we have 50,000 (3). Thats 90,000 more troops available to perform these non-combat operations. 3. There's no impact to this argument. All he says is that without PMC's, ""the ratio would be even smaller"" and that we would lose some chefs and handymen. He has done so without showing how this impacts the war effort, how it affects conflict solving, how it affects counterinsurgency, or anything. He cannot give impacts next round as it would be adding new arguments to his case. C2: Oversight improved He points out that new regulation measures have correlated with less shootings. Lots of problems here. 1. Shootings aren't the only abuse PMCs commit. Rape, theft, funding the enemy, and wasting money are plenty of malicious acts that his source doesn't even attempt to claim its reduced. So even if you buy that shootings are reduced by this, its only one wasp out of the hive. 2. According to his source, regulation may not have been what reduced the shootings: ""DOD and Department of State officials have stated that...they cannot determine to what degree the reduction in shooting incidents is the result of their efforts, the general decrease in violence in Iraq, or the military surge"" 3. Even if they did help, according to his source, regulation may not even be sustainable: ""the report expressed concerns regarding DOD’s ability to sustain its staffing and training efforts in managing its PSCs in Iraq"" C3: Draft Con says that without PMC's we couldnt operate in Iraq, and may need to do a draft to get more men. 1. The first part of the quote is irrelevant to the point. ""Without PMC's we cant operate in Iraq"". That means we pull out of Iraq, not institute conscription. 2. A draft wont be passed, it violates every democratic principle America was founded upon. 68% of Americans oppose conscription (4). To make this argument, my opponent must prove that Obama or any future president is willing to undermine the democratic principles America is proud of. 3. Even if we had a draft, it wouldn't be effective. People who didnt want to join would just claim to be Conscientious Objectors; they cant join because they feel war is ""immoral"". C4: Cost He says a PMC is $15,000 cheaper per person. My opponent completely misconstrues his source. It actually says: ""$15,000 savings per person per year through the use of civilian employees rather than a military person of comparable pay grade in peacetime—none of these studies has analyzed the cost efficiency of prolonged, intense conflicts"" None of this applies now; there is still conflict in Iraq and Afghanistan. C5: Humanitarian operations He says we can use PMC's to stop genocides, since the gov. won't use troops. 1. Extend Sierra Leone and Afghanistan examples from my C2. PMC's were hired by the gov. to stop the genocide and terrorism. Some of them funded the enemy instead. They are not reliable options to perform this duty. 2. Most places where PMC's are used for Humanitarian reasons are in Africa. Expect abuses to be even more rampant here, as these third-world nations have extremely weak governments and authorities to regulate them. C6: Security guards My opponent says we need Backwater to protect diplomats in Iraq. 1. Backwater has been involved in 56 shootings of Iraqi civilians while guarding diplomats (5). We can find guards that don't shoot the locals. 2. Now that the Iraqi police force and military has been trained by US forces, they can act as these guards instead. Not only will they not want to kill their countrymen, they are also nationals, so his blending in argument is non-unique. C7: Air support He says we need more troops to rely less on destructive air strikes 1. In 2009 there were over 68,000 contractors in Afghanistan, the location of his source (6). His evidence says that excessive air strikes are a big problem, even with those 70,000 PMC's. So his impact is happening even though contractors are there. They don't solve this problem. 2. Also extend C1 argument. We dont have enough military troops because PMC's drain them away. Onto my arguments. C1: US Credibility 1. He uses the same argument as his C2. Extend my response. 2. He cites an instance where rules of engagement for the military weren't followed in Iraq. At least the military has rules of engagement, even if it has been broken in this one example. There is none of these for contractors, enabling the abuses and allowing them to escape prosecution. 3A. He claims there is more oversight for PMC's than for the military, citing oversight branches. First, con fails to prove his point. Just because there is supposed oversight for contractors doesn't mean there is more oversight than the military. He gives no evidence about oversight regarding the normal armed forces, so he can't compare them to contractors. Second, his Oversight Branch evidence already stated that their efforts to regulate PMC's may be in vain, and that they can't even sustain their efforts. 3B. Con says PMC's will crack down on employees who commit abuses. Ok, so contractors can get fired for raping someone. Members of the military are discharged, tried in a criminal court, and sent to prison. Contractors are virtually immune from prosecution. I'm not 100% sure, but I think there's more incentive to commit abuses on the first option. Rape Con essentially argues that the military rapes people as well, namely women within its ranks. There's a simple way to solve this. Put them in separate barracks. I understand that this shouldn't be necessary, but nevertheless, it would help solve the problem. Also, my opponent refers to the military raping natives, yet he gives no evidence, statistics, or examples substantiating how often this actually happens, so Con has no access to this argument anyway. Kill Civilians He says the military kills civilians as well. 1. My opponent gives two examples of the military committing crimes and uses that to say they are worse than contractors in general. This is an extremely exaggerated claim given the warrant he had. 2. My evidence indicates that contractors have been involved in hundreds of shootings in Iraq alone. This far outweighs the two examples my opponent gave. Unless my opponent can prove that the military has shot or killed more people, I'll win this argument. I await my opponent's response. 1. http://tinyurl.com... 2. http://tinyurl.com... 3. http://tinyurl.com... 4. http://tinyurl.com... 5. http://tinyurl.com... 6. http://tinyurl.com..."	PRO	959
959	Saadb9de8-A6698874f	The US should discontinue its use of private military contractors	"My opponent never argues against having a military, period. We need a military for our collective defense, to combat terrorism, and to project power and maintain stability throughout the world, extending our soft power. If I prove that contractors are no worse than our own military (and are in fact better), then I should win that we should not discontinue their use. C1) Force multiplier For decades now, our government has been outsourcing various jobs within the military to private contractors, so that our troops can focus on their mission. According to David Kilcullen, a senior advisor to General Petraeus, currently only 40% of troops deployed to Iraq or Afghanistan perform combat duties; the rest are tasked to base support. [1] Kilcullen continues that because they are on a 2:1 rotation schedule, at any given time, only one third of the combat forces can be deployed on missions. The rest are resting and re-equipping. So currently, at any given time, only 20% of troops deployed abroad can be put in the field. Without the force multiplier effect of contractors, that ratio would be even smaller. According to the Congressional Research Service, 55% of PMC's are tasked with base support, 8% are interpreters and translators, 3.9% do logistics and maintenance, 2.3% do construction, 1.9% do transportation, 1.1% do communication, and 1.0% do training. [2] Getting rid of PMC's would rob our troops of their chefs, laundry workers, translators, and handymen. The vast majority of what PMC's do is not related to combat. C2) Oversight has improved significantly The same Congressional Research Service report continues, ""According to officials at the Department of Defense, the Blackwater shooting incident that took place at Nisoor Square on September 16, 2007, was a watershed event that highlighted the need for improved management and oversight of all U.S. government private security contractors . . . According to these officials, DOD initiated a number of steps to improve contractor oversight, including establishing an Armed Contractor Oversight Division and significantly increasing the number of Defense Contracting Management Agency personnel performing contractor oversight . . . Since the institution of measures to manage [private security contractors] better, the Department of Defense reports that incidences where weapons were fired by [private security contractors] have decreased by about 67%."" [3] C3) The Draft The CRS report continues, ""Without private contractors, the U.S. military would not have sufficient capabilities to carry out an operation of the scale of Iraq . . . without contractor support to the U.S. military, policy makers would probably need to contemplate increasing the number of U.S. troops, perhaps . . . re-instituting the draft."" The US would need so many more troops if we did not use contractors that Congress would need to re-institute the draft whenever we engaged in any sort of military operation abroad. C4) Cost According to the General Accountability Office, contractors are $15,000 cheaper per person than hiring a military equivalent. [4] And the Congressional Budget Office, studying a 20-year period, found that contractors are 90% cheaper at supplying logistical support. [5] Wars would be significantly more expensive if we did not employ contractors. C5) PMC's are essential to humanitarian assistance operations After the Black Hawk Down incident in Mogadishu, the US developed ""Somalia Syndrome,"" which is the name that scholars give to the American reluctance to deploy our troops abroad to stop genocides. Somalia Syndrome forced Clinton to impotently watch the Rwanda genocide unfold. James Pattison writes in ""Outsourcing the Responsibility to Protect"" that PMC's allow political leaders to overcome Somalia Syndrome and intervene to stop genocide. According to the Yale Journal of International Affairs, the US was able to hire MPRI to train Croatian forces in 1994; the training of Croatian forces allowed a successful counter-attack against Serbia, finally bringing them to the bargaining table. [6] The US would not have been able to deploy our own forces on the ground and without training, the Serbs would have slaughtered the Croatians in their struggle for independence. According to Rouba Al-Fattal in ""The Privatization of Peace,"" PMC's acted as a ""force equalizer"" in Bosnia, preventing one side from gaining a force advantage and thus bringing both sides to the negotiating table. [7] Blackwater has expressed a keen interest in acting as the United States rapid reaction force to genocide and other humanitarian disasters around the world. [8] C6) Security Guards Someone needs to guard our diplomats and other State Department officials as they stay in Iraq and Afghanistan and help them build up their civil society. In Iraq, with the US withdrawal, the State Department is relying completely on 7,000 private contractors to protect them. [9] Say what you will about Blackwater, but not a single person has died while being guarded by this PMC. [10] The CRS points out that contractors are superior for protection because most contractors are locals, who blend in and speak the language, so they are less likely to arouse attention. [11] C7) Air support According to think tank Senlis Afghanistan, having fewer boots on the ground will lead to an over-reliance on air support, which empirically kills far more civilians and turns people against us. [14] ==Rebuttal== R1) Undermine US credibility 1. The new Armed Contractor Oversight Division has decreased ""firing incidents"" by 67% meaning because of new DOD oversight post-2007, contractors only use their weapons for clear and legitimate purposes, obeying the rules of engagement. 2. Our own military doesn't always have clear rules of engagement. One Iraq war vet describes the US rules of engagement during the Bush presidency as ""We Were Told to Just Shoot People, and the Officers Would Take Care of Us."" [12] 3. Turn, there is more oversight over PMC's than our own military. There are multiple oversight branches, and the DOD and Congress can always refuse to renew contractors for PMC's that misbehave, creating huge incentives to crack down on employees. This is way more oversight than for our own military, which was able to cover up its murder of two Reuters journalists, until Wikileaks exposed the incident. Rape My opponent provides 4 examples of rape. When you send a bunch of young men overseas, unfortunately, some percentage of them will be rapists. The Pentagon estimates that 15,000 women WITHIN our military are raped or sexually assaulted each year. [13] If you include our military raping natives, the number becomes much larger. Rape is a systematic problem within our own military; 4 incidents is small in comparison. In addition, contractors who do not deal with rape allegations will not be rehired, whereas our own military has shown no accountability for the rape epidemic in its ranks. Kill Civilians Oversight has improved dramatically since the Blackwater incident my opponent cites. Our military is no better: ""4 soldiers gang raped a 14-year-old girl in the town of Mahmoudiya, Iraq."" [15] ""Photographs taken by a Marine intelligence team have convinced investigators that a Marine unit killed up to 24 unarmed Iraqis, some of them ``execution style,"" in the insurgent stronghold of Haditha."" [16] Given the difficulty of presenting a case and refuting at the same time, I will offer the rest of my rebuttal in the next round. [1] The Accidental Guerilla, page 270 [2] http://tinyurl.com... [3] Ibid [4] http://tinyurl.com... [5] http://tinyurl.com... [6] http://tinyurl.com... [7] http://tinyurl.com... [8] http://tinyurl.com... [9] http://tinyurl.com... [10] http://tinyurl.com... [11] Ibid [12] http://tinyurl.com... [13] http://tinyurl.com... [14] ""Stumbling into Chaos: Afghanistan on the Brink"", November 2007"	CON	960
960	Saadb9de8-Aeba6e1d9	The US should discontinue its use of private military contractors	Thanks to bluesteel for agreeing to debate this topic. Rules 1. Both sides are required to give arguments to support their position, not just refute the other's claims. 2. No semantics 3. Round 1 is for intro, acceptance, etc. I dont feel definitions are necessary as we should both know what the topic is about. Many reading this may not know exactly what private military contractors (PMC's) are. Here is a brief intro. The slang term is mercenaries. Typically, retired military personell or other people who have combat experience come together and form a coporation that sells their military skills. The US will pay these firms a lot of money to go overseas and help the regular military perform its duties. Think of them as kind of a second army. Supporters of them generally refer to how the US depends a lot on these contractors to succeed, as our normal military isn't as big as people think. But they have come under fire because they are unregulated by US law like the military is, have a history of human rights abuses, and other such things that my case will explain. If my opponent has any questions or objections it would be best to mention them before accepting. Good luck to both of us. Lets have a good round.	PRO	961
961	Saadb9de8-Ab68f2a05	The US should discontinue its use of private military contractors	"My case, his, then voters C1 points C and D. 1. Nationality doesn't matter, raping and shooting of civilians will stand out no matter what country you're from. The Schwartz evidence specifically shows how these abuses are attributed by the people to America (nationals or not), because we are the ones who hired the contractors committing these abuses. 2. Toss the Wikileaks card. Nowhere does it say the military alone was responsible for the deaths. It is merely a tally of casualties, never saying who caused them. This tally therefore includes those killed by contractors, which turns this argument. 3. Group with his C7. 4. Turn, these translators would be in the military if PMC's didn't siphon them away by the lure of money. C2: Work on both sides 1. My opponent literally tries to justify PMC's funding the Taliban. Unfortunately, this is a double bind for him. If PMC's are effective at security like he claims in C6, then they shouldn't need to pay off warlords to defend themselves. They should be able to fight back convoy attacks just fine. If they do have to pay warlords off, then he's conceding that PMC's aren't effective at security and need to resort to bribery to achieve it. So by making this argument he's either conceding that A. Funding Taliban is bad, or B. PMC's aren't effective. 2. This is what the source says. ""domestic security contractors might have actually paid the Taliban to stage attacks against coalition forces to help justify their existence"" Read the source. Nowhere does it say the claim is unsubstantiated. If he wants to argue this, he needs to quote my article directly. 3. My opponent says the US has arrangements that prevent PMC betrayal. Unfortunately for him, he dropped the argument that PMC's are subcontracting to Afghan warlords and working for them directly. Clearly ineffective. Also, we still have hundreds of thousands of contractors there despite their counterproductive nature, so no, the US is not firing them by itself. 4. Contractors and Navy SEALS: Lacking source to validate this claim. Besides, in ""sensitive missions"" we would be more likely to use actual Navy SEALS, not former ones that are for hire. C3: Other disads A. 1. No evidence. He just arbitrarily states ""the army does a better job"", with no backing. I can do the same. ""The military is better than PMC's"". There, I won! 2. Army could have pushed repairs: Con misses the point. The fact that it was necessary to push them to do repairs in the first place shows the lack of effort PMC's can employ. B. 1. Audit agency: Severely lacking a source here. Having an oversight branch only matters if its effective. He hasnt proven that whatsoever. 2. Military wasting money: Turn: The leaders of all these programs he listed were fired (1, 2). That shows accountability. His case C1: 1. Brain-Drain: My opponent concedes PMC's cause a shortage of skilled personnel, but tries to say its only for Elite officers. Unfortunately, he gave no evidence whatsoever to counter mine. I gave empirical and theoretical analysis about average soldiers joining a Contracting agency over the military, it doesn't just apply to the Elites. He can only counter with ""this is not true for base support"" with no supporting analysis or evidence. This is a huge win for the Pro, make this a voter. 2. Combine the extra 90,000 soldiers with the personnel we would have back from the PMC Brain-Drain, and we could match the efficiency level we had before, especially since they would be under a better regulatory framework. My opponent misplaces some Draft arguments, I'll move and cover them in C3. C2: 1. Other crimes: My opponent once again makes a completely unsupported statement, arbitrarily saying oversight branches ""have been successful in reigning in abuses other than shooting incidents"", with no source, no quote, no warrant. Thats probably because his original evidence indeed only talked about shootings, nothing else. 2. His ""preliminary evidence"" shouldn't be accepted either as his own source says its effort may not have worked. Dont draw long term conclusions from short-term results. 3. Dropped. Even if PMC's can be regulated, his evidence says it is unsustainable. This will be my second voter, this will win me the debate by itself. 4. Turn his source 4, it further substantiates my claim that PMC's destroy public opinion and commit murder in cold-blood. It even references the president of Afghanistan calling for a Ban of PMC's. Also, the source never says anything about Status of Force agreements or contractors being prosecuted, I'm not sure where he's getting this from. Again, he needs to quote the source. C3: 1. Dropped. US will just limit its foreign engagements rather than institute a draft. 2. Doesn't matter what Bush did, I said that Con must prove that Obama or any future president will violate democracy. George Bush is not a future president, so he has not refuted my argument. 3. Dropped. Draft wont be effective, so it wont last anyway. C4: Con implies that the military is more expensive because they get hazard pay and health insurance. I'd say that if you walk into a terrorist warzone on a daily basis where you can lose a limb or two fairly easily, you deserve some insurance, expensive or not. Its ridiculous for Con to assume that this is a bad thing. Plus, his source still says that soldiers (who dont get shot) in the military are cheaper in war than PMC's. C5: 1. Con makes more warrantless claims to refute my argument. I pointed out how PMC's have worked against humanitarian efforts before with evidence, and he just literally says ""this is not true...whenever the US is involved. This in spite of him conceding that PMC's fund the Taliban (though he tried to justify it) and dropping that they are subcontracting to Afghan warlords. Empirically, PMC's do in fact undermine humanitarian efforts. 2. Dropped. The lack of strong governance in nations requiring humanitarian assistance means that PMC abuses will be rampant, potentially worsening the situation. C6: 1. Extend my argument on my C1 sub point C against Wikileaks. 2. Its been established that the only reason Blackwater escorts people so well is because they give the Taliban millions to not attack them, which is empirically proven to be counterproductive to our counterinsurgency. 3. As for the Iraqi police guarding diplomats, fine. Kick them. My opponent has completely dropped my Iraqi Military Alternative. Remember, I mentioned the Police and Military, not just police. Since he makes no arguments against the viability of their armed forces (and he can't do so in the last round), I win this automatically as you have a clear alternative to perform this service. C7: Remember, we will have more troops to counteract Air Strike dependency due to the lack of Brain-Drain affirming solves for. Combine that with the 90,000 extra troops we have, and we won't have to use the ol' Carpet Bomb. Now that all thats covered, lets look over why I win. Voting Issues 1. Con gives no evidence or analysis on everyday troops being siphoned away from the military by PMC's. This means that by ceasing our use of Contractors, many of their forces will re-join our military, counteracting any loss of manpower we would experience. His entire case falls right there, as all of his impacts are on Troop Deficit. 2. He drops Accountability Unsustainable on his C2. This means that even if you buy every argument he's made regarding how PMC's are regulated, it doesn't matter because it can't be maintained. I win on all Accountability arguments. 3. All of my defenses on my C1 sub points A and b were dropped, so extend the the following arguments. A. Military has Rules, PMC's don't. B. He can't compare military oversight to PMC oversight. C. Military has more incentive to not commit abuses D. Military rape can be solved for. The first two voters are independent reasons to vote pro, as thee subsume the vast majority of his arguments. Thus, I affirm. Awesome round!! 1. http://tinyurl.com... 2. http://tinyurl.com..."	PRO	962
962	S4380d19-Ac08e9841	It's better for a government to keep its citizens in a state of fear.	Thank you for the warm welcome. =] _Refuting the Refutes_ My opponent states that their is no way to guarantee that the entity will be a government that people will turn too. He points out religion as another possible alternative. In the United States the majority of the population still self-identify as Christians, however we are a very stable nation (Failed State Index 2009). Thus we have religion incorporated into our society in a peaceful way and yet we do not have revolt against our government. Further more whatever faction people may turn too would probably in one way or another have some form of government ties, and even if it didn't this does not mean that a government would be un-able to find a means to gain either control or an influence in this faction. In order for a government to enforce a universal state of fear of a FOREIGN entity then it is to be presumed it must have a monopoly on power/media. Thus it's not unlikely that any faction could not in same way have power or influence by the gov. Because his argument has been refuted my community argument stands strong. (Round 1) Refuting his case_ Staying in power must be the goal of a government, because if they lose their power they are no longer able to rule over a sovereign people. My opponent says it is justified to replace a corrupt gov. with a more righteous one, however if the government is not going to take steps to enforce its rule it is basically a puppet government with no sovereign power and thus we are just in a state of anarchy or a state of easy government abuse. Further more a phobia doesn't necessarily have to be false, their can be rational phobias, used by the state to get concessions. (Ex: Airport security to prevent terror attacks). My opponent constantly states that their are better ways, however he does not offer one alternative. Thus my case stands strong because my opponent claims fear is ineffective, but he offers no alternative and he has been refuted.	PRO	963
963	S4380d19-Ac777b561	It's better for a government to keep its citizens in a state of fear.	"I would like to thank my opponent for his quick rebuttal. =Rebuttals= My opponent has pointed to the United States as a counter-example to my rebuttal; however, the large majority of Americans are not in danger of a foreign entity (except on airplanes, but that danger is minuscule). The United States has a secure population and is not a valid counter-example. http://www.youtube.com... The Internal Rebellion Faction is not required to have government ties. A monopoly on power and media is not necessary to exaggerate a danger. Danger has been exaggerated by all sorts of propaganda agencies, such as the Daisy Girl ad seen above, without such a monopoly. There is no reason to believe that no organization would be able to rise up with fear mongering and then use its power to take charge. The community argument relies thoroughly on the rebuttal of my objection, and so it shall be considered only in application. ==The Negative Case== A government that sacrifices its purpose for its position is no better than a lying politician. The ""steps to enforce its rule"" are unnecessary unless a government is abusive. The United States, for example, has stayed in power for hundreds of years without manufacturing a non-existent foreign enemy. Nazi Germany, on the other hand, needed to create an enemy, the Jews, to justify its misbehaviour. The United States is not an anarchy, and so my opponent's rebuttal to my case is moot. My opponent asks for an example of a righteous government tool for staying in power. Examples include the promotion of the system of checks and balances system (in the public school system) and the election system. My opponent also clarifies that the fear doesn't have to be of a non-existent entity, but my objections are still valid, as the resolution implies with the word ""keep"" that action would ensue with or without the existence of a true threat. This implies over-exaggeration and falsification. I now yield to PRO."	CON	964
964	S4380d19-A99cc85f7	It's better for a government to keep its citizens in a state of fear.	"I'd like to thank my opponent for a good debate. Refuting the Refute 1. I'd like to point out here that my opponent has agreed to my example of a justifiable fear of terrorism on planes which I will address later. 2. We are not debating is fear immoral; we are debating fear used by the government. The Daisy Ad was by an independent party and thus the government is not enforcing a state of fear. My opponent is arguing about propaganda agencies, however if they are enforcing their own fear then it is not the government deciding to keep its citizens in a state of fear; it is the independent agency; thus this is off topic. If the government agrees with the agency then obviously they are the ones in control of power because they are still the making rational choices and thus the government still has complete control. My opponent is arguing that the U.S. has stayed in power without utilizing a fear, however he agrees to the justification that their is a fear of terrorism on planes (first paragraph R2) thus he is contradicting himself here. The airport security system is enforced by multiple governments in the world and thus we accept that their is a fear of terror threats on a plane. We are not debating here the level of ""fear"" or the level of threat. I only have to prove that their is a fear imposed that led to good results. My opponent admits their is a fear of danger on planes and thus he has basically admitted that their is a justifiable reason that the government can keep its citizens in a state of fear; because they want to enforce airplane security. Further more; should we stop airport security because we have no proof as of now somebody might have a bomb on a plane? The chief reason for voting for the Pro is that: My first contention stands strong because my opponent has not proved that their is any other faction that the people may turn too that does not have government ties. Also, a real world application of the resolution has been justified"	PRO	965
965	S4380d19-A6606d335	It's better for a government to keep its citizens in a state of fear.	Hello People, I am arguing for the justification that a government has more to benefit from keeping its citizens in a state of fear. By state of fear it is to be meant a state in which the citizens have a phobia of some foreign entity that would be promoted either through force or propaganda by a sovereign body. My contentions for this are as follows: C1: It ensures loyalty. When people have a fear of something they are more likely to put their protection to a higher power and in this case the government would have the loyalty of its people, because they would rely on their government in a mutual trust that they would be protected by the government in exchange for loyalty. Thus by keeping its citizens in a state of fear you prevent disloyalty and raging anarchy which would just lead to the loss of human life and human character; again accomplishing this because people have a need for a higher protective force, the government. They would rather accept the protection and show loyalty too the government, than risk being harmed or damaged by the foreign entity. C2: It promotes relationships at the community level. When people are threatened they have a tendency to rely on each other and when they have a fear of a foreign force they are more likely to group together in a close community bond. An example of this would be when a registered sex predator moves into a neighborhood and the neighborhood watch tightens their look out on him/her to ensure the safety of the neighborhood. When people are in a fear they have to work in a community setting together rather than all work for their own individual interests. This leads the communities to grow new bonds and to strengthen their inner character to ensure the protection of all to the foreign entity. In conclusion, it's justified for a government to keep its citizens in a state of fear, because people bond and show loyalty to ensure their individual rights are protected thus they grow together.	PRO	966
966	S4380d19-A6a596bff	It's better for a government to keep its citizens in a state of fear.	"==Refuting the Affirmative Case== My opponent has conceded that independent agencies are capable of producing propaganda outside of government control, and so my objection regarding the potential overthrow of the government is conceded. My opponent also concedes that the large majority of Americans are not in a state of fear. He mostly attacks the exception regarding plains, which, as I have already pointed out, is minuscule and largely irrelevant. Americans are, quite simply, not living in a state of fear, and their government is entirely stable. My opponent is also trying to argue that the airline industry is safer because of fear of terrorists. This is not the case. The fear itself is not the cause of the safety; the careful inspection of passengers allows the safety Americans enjoy. My opponent asks if we should stop airport security. This is a straw-man claim, and, quite frankly, absurd. Americans are not afraid of flying in airplanes, and the government doesn't hijack planes or spread propaganda to make us afraid. Further, it is not even necessary for Americans to be afraid of airplanes in order for airport security to be successful. My opponent has only attacked the airplane industry, and in doing this, has conceded: -Governments that make the citizenry live in fear are best overthrown. -""Steps to enforce rule"" are not necessary in a non-corrupt government. -It is plausible for governments to be promoted without manufacturing fear. So, the resolution, that ""It's better for a government to keep its citizens in a state of fear"", is negated, on bluntness, in-necessity, and immorality. It fails at its purpose. Both the people and the government are better off without such a policy. The resolution is negated."	CON	967
967	S4338d37-A8fc150a6	Christianity and its Validity	"I'll address each of your questions in sequence to avoid confusion: First: ""Why are there all different religions if all religions are the same."" I personally see that they are all near-identical at their cores, and I've also observed that religions often step from the same roots. The seeing of the main deity, be they Ra, Jesus, etc. as the light of the world, the sun, the thing upon which all things are based. The original purpose of this was of course to be able to explain away the prosperity or decline of crops. Ancient life revolved around the sun, allowing it to control their days with a completeness that's quite beautiful in its simplicity. Then came the gods of the forces that scared people, of the unknown, of the dangerous: Hades, god of the underworld in Greek mythology; Zeus, all-powerful, but recognized in the majority of myths to have a fearsome temper (just as thunder and lightning do in daily life). Gods of the night, gods of sleep, gods of every simple, basic force in the lives of those who lived. The reasons religions appear differently throughout the centuries is because the deities and holy spirits change with the needs of the population. The most clear example of this is of course the Roman pantheon versus that of the Greeks. Developed in similar timelines, the gods were almost identical, with their small differences notably applicable to those between the two societies--Rome was more warlike, focusing on conquering and war, violence, while the Greek gods were more inclined to stay connected to arts. This shows clearly the linear progression from one religion into another. ""...Cultures love to incorporate good stories in their own consciousness. Celestial rape, virgin births, important astrological dates, ultimate chieftains being born of low status (especially if it means proper posh folk come along and worship them)"" these are bread and butter for all tribal cultures along with creation and disaster myths."" [1] Secondly: ""Different religions have different laws, so how can these be created for a moral code?"" Let me refute this by simply providing a list of some of the common values and laws between the three most prevalent religions, as well as a more personal discussion of ""why"": Christianity, Judaism, and Islam. 1. Each of these religions is monotheistic, which has become much more dominant over religious studies in more recent years (the past 2500 years, perhaps). The reason is that, as government becomes less monarchical and more democratic (which, to save time, I'd like to say that yes, in times prior to 500 BCE things were less democratic in nature than they became shortly thereafter), the backup control that religion provides needed to morph into a more dictatorial system, for lack of a better word, with one omnipotent ruler to take the place where kings and emperors once stood. 2. Daily prayer and weekly worship are traditions of both religions, with this repetitive loyalty conditioning ensuring that religious purpose is in the forefront of all minds, with no time to ask questions. [2] All three religions believe in the ""immaculate conception"" of Jesus. Third: ""God put in the urge to believe for his own purposes."" If you cannot recognize these parallels because you are so blinded by religion, I'm not sure how to argue this. If your only argument goes along the lines of ""Because god said so"" then the debate will become circular in no time at all. Also, this sort of thinking goes against the values of your own religion. Am I incorrect in saying that God helps those who have found him and who accept him without question though faith does not provide all that they wish to have, but he does not aid those who reject his existence? Job, for example, was given no reason to believe in God, as everything he had was taken away, and God, with his rather twisted sense of humor, didn't help him, he was simply testing him. If God tests us all, then how might we know the difference between a test and the cold hard reality of suffering? Fourth: ""What values can you see that disprove a god's existence?"" I will actually allow you a point here--I see nothing that disproves it. I however, see nothing that proves it either. However, scientific proof of secular theories hold a much more promising future in my opinion. Sure, there's no proof that there isn't a Bigfoot, but honestly? There's more proof of bigfoot than there has ever been of god. This is what I mean by proof. Wind has an explanation, so comparing wind to god is honestly quite ridiculous. You feel the effects of wind, things happen that can be directly attributed to wind, without any alternate explanation with supporting evidence. Some people sense the effects of a god. I don't dispute that. But there is no proof there at all. Best of luck to you in the next round. [1] https://richarddawkins.net... [2] http://www.americancatholic.org..."	CON	968
968	S3a358a7-A5c485ee4	Mankind is slowly working its way toward Utopia	I have to admit that in what you say, compromises can be made, and, yes, coming to the point of those undiscovered cures, we would need places of research to help manufacture them and distribute them to the people, and that providing people are willing to accept that technology does not have all the answers, but some do, Finding answers to the world's problems is the key to Progress in this age and that people are given access to this knowledge freely (not restricted like it is today), maybe man can find a Utopia where disease is finally eradicated, technology is only used to help synthsize the cures and to find ways for renewable energy, and not used for Biological Weapons. I am sure that the Internet could be used for the Improvement of man, this I feel would be in better hands with Scientists who are fully aware of all the positive aspects and benefits Natural Cures like the ginger I quoted and many other herbs and roots which exist, that man will finally be able to live a very healthy and constructive life. Plus man will need to stop destroying the natural habitat, and stop synthesizing artificial cures when the cultivating of plants can supply us with what we truly need, as I have found out myself through experimenting with different types of herbs (in its natural form). https://r.search.yahoo.com...- http://r.search.yahoo.com...- The Links above may give an idea of the differences certain herbs can make. And the possible diversity of the number of cures that can be found in nature itself. And that the answers to all our problems (except the ways certain humans think), that every ailment known (or most) can be cured with natural herbs of all kinds.	CON	969
969	S3a358a7-Aa1dcec09	Mankind is slowly working its way toward Utopia	Some of the information you give I can agree with and accept as true, though I have never been married, I have found that the only time I feel happy and content, is when I listen to Music or being around animals, trees and plants, and no other time, meaning no form of automation in sight, no artificial intelligence, nothing but the Open wilderness, Nature at its finest. And believe me, everything that man suffers from can be cured by the Plants that surround us in every forested area on this planet. If you can read this Link to root ginger alone. this will give you an idea how much we truly DO NOT NEED technology to improve our life's:- https://r.search.yahoo.com...- What we now need is a lot of sense, wisdom, and knowledge of the plant life that surrounds us, you will find that what I have described, is a clear case of what MUST be done! Root Ginger on its own is an amazing herb, which is just 1 of many herbs which can cure any ailment, even Cancer, like everything else, herbal remedies have limitations on what they can cure. but, when you look at the benefits of this kind of research, compared to technology, you will find that the natural resources can be constantly grown, and this is what man should really be doing, Nurturing that which will help us. Hopefully, this will show you that Nature has all the answers, and that technology is only needed to help create natural cures, not synthetic ones.	CON	970
970	S105b8a3c-A6a1faf33	The USFG should universalize its healthcare system.	On September 11th 3,000 Americans were killed. Since then we have pursued the killers to the fullest extent, essentially stopping at no means to avenge their deaths. But as this is going on, it tends to be neglect that 18,000 people in the US die deaths that could be prevented if they were better insured, yet practically nothing is being done about it. It is because of this that I believe action should be taken to provide healthcare through the government to everyone in the United States. The United States ranks at the top of the list in terms of quality of health care, but we rank 30th (tied with fiji) in terms of how available it is to the general populous. Over 40 million people in the US are under insured. In recent years we have spent about 16% of our GDp on healthcare, about twice as much as Japan and Sweden (both who have a universal system) and they visit the doctor an average of four times more per year than Americans. Basically what I'm leading into is that the privatized system in the US is MORE bureaucratic than most socialized government systems. Want more proof? Since the 1970s the growth of the number of medical administrators has exceedingly surpassed that of doctors and nurses, simply because all of the red tape that must be dealt with. Furthermore in the privatized system we face over utilization and underutilization. Wealthy people with all inclusive policies go get a CAT scan when they have a headache, where poorer people go to the hospital only when they really need to (they often go to the emergency room which is EXTREMELY expensive). The problem with this is that one often could have easily prevented the ailment with a doctors guidance but now it is too late and one has to undergo an expensive procedure. Underutilization occurs because now healthcare is run as a business and business means competition. Fore example, lets say a small region has two hospitals and one hospital has a CAT scan. While this one CAT scan may be enough to serve the entire region, the other hospital has to purchase its own CAT scan in order to compete, thus wasting money. This can be prevented if the government bypasses this inefficiency with its own health insurance system. The system in the status quo is also inherently immoral. Currently healthcare in the US is regarded as a privilege when is it should be a right. Now, people are split into two groups: thoes who can afford healthcare and those who cant. The people in the second group are being dehumanized because they are being separated into this other group. Essentially they are being told that they are not worthy of such a right because they are poor. Even if they do have medicaid, the quality of their healthcare is significantly less. This situation is reminiscent of poll taxes that deprived poor people the right to vote because they could not afford the tax. Under the status quo we are simply widening the gap between social classes. The Economy also suffers because of our outrageous system. (for this argument I'm going to make a list just for the sake of time) High HC costs is the number one cause of bankruptcy in the US. It motivates outsourcing of well paying jobs because in the US, corporations have to deal with high healthcare costs, where in countries like Japan and Canada they do not. Small businesses, the backbone of the American economy will be more competitive because they will not have to compete with large corporations that can afford to offer healthcare. A 20 thousand dollar car costs 17 thousand in an economy with universal healthcare because they don't have to pay healthcare. Large American companies are going to be more competitive. It will alleviate tensions between corps and unions, for healthcare is one of the biggest gaps between them. This leads to fewer strikes and bad PR. People with health insurance are 30 percent more productive at work.	PRO	971
971	S51e16921-Adc1d1450	Contradictions in the Bible are reasons to doubt its validity.	"Before my initial arguments, I would like to remind you of what our topic actually is all about, and make sure we are on the same page: WE AREN'T DEBATING THE VALIDITY OF THE BIBLE. We are not debating whether or not the Bible is true, and there is no burden to prove. The topic is ONLY whether or not contradictions provide a solid reason for doubt. Anything unrelated to contradictions and what they mean for the Bible's validity are therefore irrelevant and have no effect on this debate. Contradiction- ...statements, ideas, or features of a situation that are opposed to one another. (1) Doubt- To be undecided or skeptical. (2) Valid- sound; just; well-founded (3) 1- Different doesn't equal fictitious. The biggest view from a skeptic is that a difference automatically disqualifies something from being true. This is simply illogical. Imagine you and a few friends are having lunch together. While having lunch, you all are reliving a great memory you had together. Each of you are probably going to remember things a little differently, and some of you may remember an aspect that no one else remembers. You will obviously paraphrase quotes, and because of this, everything might not line up 100%. Does this mean the story you're telling didn't happen? No. Each of you had a different aspect and therefore had slightly different accounts. 2- Slight variation supports that fact that it is true. Besides saying that variation doesn't disprove the Bible, I want to take it even further and say that they actually support the Bible's validity. They help push the fact that real people wrote these things down. If the Bible was made up by some cult who was trying to fool everyone, it would not contain any ""errors"" and if any were discovered, would have been fixed immediately. As Explore God put it, ""Contrived and forged works generally don""t contain such marks."" (4) 3- Different authors had different purposes for writing. It's not necessary to explain in depth the History of the Bible. Each book is a letter or historical ""textbook"" written by who it says it was. The Early Church compiled the ones it believed most reliable and made our holy text. Whether you believe what's in the Bible to be true, this is solid fact. (5) Each author wrote with a specific purpose and audience in mind, and chose content accordingly. Explore God: ""Its authors simply reported what they experienced to the best of their abilities."" (6) 4- Context is Key Many so-called contradictions occur due to taking Scripture out of context (7) 5- Many ""contradictions"" aren't so. (8) As I have reached my 3,000 character limit, I ask that you give me 3 examples of contradictions that I will attempt to explain next round. (1) en.oxforddictionaries.com/ (2) www.thefreedictionary.com/ (3) www.dictionary.com/ (4,6) www.exploregod.com/what-about-contradictions-in-the-bible (5) www.allaboutthejourney.org/history-of-the-b (7) www.tektonics.org/lp/merri (8) answersingenesis.org/contradictions-in-the-bible/"	CON	972
972	S51e16921-A222e9600	Contradictions in the Bible are reasons to doubt its validity.	"==Subject of the debate== I understand the topic and would like to point out that both of the arguments that I put into standard form involved internal contradictions in the Bible as a premise, with the conclusion being that the validity of the Bible can be doubted. I'm unsure if you are making a general assertion to clarify things or if you believe that criticism applies to what I've written. If the latter, please be explicit in your rebuttal. However, we *are* debating the validity of the Bible indirectly, although I understand we're restricted to only doing so through a specific line of reasoning. ==Definitions== I will note and accept all of the definitions which you have provided. ==Rebuttal - ""Different doesn't equal fictitious""== -If two directly conflicting statements are mutually exclusive, then they can""t both be true at the same time. So to the contrary of your assertion, ""different"" can indeed equate to the logical conclusion that one of two competing claims is false. -Even in cases where contradicting statements are not mutually exclusively, it is still a reasonable criteria under which to assess credibility of a source. -The ""Rashomon effect"" analogy you drew is not comparable to the discrepancies in the Bible which, as I stated in my opening, explicitly claims to be the infallible word of God and explicitly rejects the possibility that any interpretations from authors influenced the text. ==Rebuttal - Slight variation supports the fact that it is true== -First and most importantly, you're actually conceding right here that there are inaccuracies in the Bible. The fact that you attribute this to authors is irrelevant; what matters is that *you are admitting that there are errors in the text itself*. By definition, if it's erroneous its validity can be questioned. -Again, the Bible itself undermines the argument that contradictions are due to varying authors. -Additionally, there are internal contradictions even within a single book of the Bible, written by a single author. ==Rebuttal - Different authors had different purposes for writing== I fail to see how the motives of the authors have any relevance to this debate. ==Rebuttal - Context is key== Too broad a point to argue generally, but I'm open to you attempting to demonstrate this with any specific scripture I present. ==Rebuttal - Many ""contradictions"" aren't so== I'd be happy to present three examples of contradictions, as you request. To emphasize there are even contradictions within individual books, two of the examples fit this pattern. Due to character limit constraints I will need to summarize and can't include the full text of the scriptures. John 10:30 (1) - Jesus equal to the Father. John 14:28 (1) - The Father greater than Jesus. 1 Corinthians 2:15 (1) - Make judgments. 1 Corinthians 4:5 (1) - Judge nothing. Matthew 27:28 (1) - Jesus wore a scarlet robe at trial. John 19:2 (1) - Jesus wore a purple robe at trial. (1) https://www.biblegateway.com..."	PRO	973
973	S51e16921-A6eb33f7c	Contradictions in the Bible are reasons to doubt its validity.	"I accept this challenge and welcome a debate with my opponent. --- OPENING ARGUMENTS --- --Burden of Proof-- When a party asserts a disputable claim, the burden of proof is upon the party making the assertion to substantiate their claim (1). Therefore, since the Bible is presenting claims, the Bible must justify those claims. The Bible puts forth claims that are extraordinary (humans living hundreds of years prior to modern medicine, resurrection, water being turned into wine, the red sea being parted, etc). These fly in the face of all scientific explanations and common sense, and require significant substantiating evidence to support them. The internal consistency of the Bible is a clear metric by which to determine the credibility of the source material making these assertions. Many claims in the Bible are inherently suspect and require substantial evidence to justify. Not only is no external evidence provided to justify Biblical claims, but internal contradictions cast further doubt upon the source material itself. --The Bible Purports to be the Infallible Word of God-- According to a popular Christian website, ""in hundreds of passages, in both the Old and New Testaments, the Bible plainly declares to be the very Word of the living God (2)."" For example, in 2 Peter 1:20-21, it is stated that ""knowing this first of all, that no prophecy of Scripture comes from someone's own interpretation. For no prophecy was ever produced by the will of man, but men spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit (3)."" --The Bible Contains Numerous Contradictions-- This appears to be a point that is already conceded for the purpose of this debate, but just to be clear, the Bible contains dozens of internal contradictions (4). --Argument Re: Sufficiency of Evidence-- Premise 1 - Extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence. Premise 2 - The Bible contains extraordinary claims, and the ""evidence"" provided are mere assertions which are themselves internally contradictory. Conclusion - The Bible does not provide sufficient evidence to justify its claims. (In other words, it's validity can be doubted) --Argument Re: Biblical Inerrancy-- Premise 1 - The Bible claims to be the infallible word of God. Premise 2 - The Bible contains numerous internal contradictions. Conclusion - There are reasons to doubt the validity of claims of the Bible. --Summary-- From both a logical perspective and based on the Bible's own declaration of infallibility, internal contradictions provide reason to doubt the validity of the Bible. (1) http://www.qcc.cuny.edu... (2) https://www.blueletterbible.org... (3) http://biblia.com... (4) http://infidels.org..."	PRO	974
974	S996dd88-Adb1a37d3	The US should increase its use of nuclear energy	"I'd like to begin this round by pointing out two things. First, my opponent never used evidence to substantiate their claims. Second, my opponent never responded to my rebuttals of their case. Argument 1: The argument my opponent makes that ""the major polluter are cars not coal energy producing stations."" I refuted this earlier in the round, so I'll just restate my arguments: First, every reduction to CO2 is good and saying that cars are the issue just diverts attention away from the actual topic. Second, if you truly think this is the case then the renewables you proposed wouldn't be solving this problem either. 1a) - ""generating with nuclear is harmful since the end products cannot be stored safely"" once again I already refuted this with evidence during round 2, I will just restate my argument. You can use Thorium to recycle current waste and it only produces an extremely small of waste, you can take this already small amount and blow into glass, further reducing the size and locking it the dangers. -""i think its better for us to invest in making coal stations more efficient than building nuclear"" even if you believe this we're projected to run out of coal in the next 10-20 years, investing in something that will run out would be fruitless. (http://grist.org...) - ""nuclear is also costly to maintan"" once again, I refuted this earlier. Look at the EIA evidence I gave during round 2, nuclear is cheaper then some alternatives and more expensive then some. But it's important to look at the overall capacity factor which is how much of the US those forms of energy can power. Nuclear outclasses all the alternatives my opponent suggested. Argument 2: First, ""nuclear proliferation will increase the threat of nuclear weapons since its easy to turn nuclear reactors into nuclear weapons"" you gave no evidence to substantiate this claim. Therefore, the evidence I gave about how nuclear power directly leads to eliminating warheads is much more valid then my opponent's. Second, what my opponent has said here is based on a false premise established in their previous point. So carry through that rebuttal. Also, ""You can""t save the biosphere if it""s irradiated by a nuclear fallout"" my opponent provides no evidence for this claim. Third, once again this based upon a false claim that I refuted and is also blatant fear mongering. Fourth, I didn't understand this point too clearly but I believe the gist of it is that alternatives are better. I've shown evidence in both my rounds and during this rebuttal about how that is not the case and that nuclear is superior. ""One reason we don""t need nuclear energy is because uranium is also a limited nonrenewable resource. And its mining, refining, construction, operation, and disposal all require substantial amounts of petroleum fuels, and are all accomplished by devices and processes which are largely ill-suited to electric power. And of course the disposal problem is nowhere near a solution."" First, ""uranium is also a limited nonrenewable resource"" once again my opponent provides no evidence for this. Nonetheless, this can be alleviated with breeder reactors. According to research done by Bernard L. Cohen from the Department of Physics at the University of Pittsburgh 1983 ""We thus conclude that all the world’s energy requirements for the remaining 5×10 yr of existence of life on Earth could be 9 provided by breeder reactors without the cost of electricity rising by as much as 1% due to fuel costs. This is consistent with the definition of a “renewable” energy source in the sense in which that term is generally used"" What this shows is that breeder technologies can make nuclear just as sustainable as renewables. Also, cross apply the Thorium and Fusion evidence I gave during round 1 regarding nuclear energy. Second, ""And its mining, refining, construction, operation, and disposal all require substantial amounts of petroleum fuels"" This same problem occurs with renewables (on a much larger scale) as I had pointed out during my round 2 rebuttal. Third, ""And of course the disposal problem is nowhere near a solution."" this is just false, look to the Thorium and glass evidence I gave during round 2, and during this round as well. ""New nuclear power stations will not be built in the UK, or anywhere else, unless substantial subsidies are provided. That several such subsidies are already in place is a flagrant breach of the principle of fair competition. Subsidies may be justified for new industries and new technologies but they are not justified for nuclear power which is long-established and has had more than its fair share of support."" First, ""New nuclear power stations will not be built in the UK, or anywhere else"" the topic states explicitly that we are debating the US. Second, to address your point on subsidies as whole. Subsidies are not innately bad as the Con team is implying, the government subsidizes certain technologies they view as a good investment. Nonetheless if we continue with my opponent's premise, coal which they argued in favor of earlier has received 12% of subsidies, hydroelectric has received 11%, renewables (solar and wind) have received 9%, and nuclear has received 9%. So unless my opponent can justify why all these other forms of energy are receiving subsidies their point is invalid and unfairly targeting nuclear. ""It appears that, where claims are made that nuclear power is cheap, the evidence has come, directly or indirectly, from the nuclear industry itself. It appears that such claims can only be made with some or all of the following optimistic assumptions: no overruns in the times or costs of building nuclear plants, ignoring all the subsidies for nuclear power and assuming that capital costs have been paid off.When all the overt and hidden subsidies are taken into account, nuclear power is one of the most expensive ways of generating electricity."" First, ""It appears that, where claims are made that nuclear power is cheap, the evidence has come, directly or indirectly, from the nuclear industry itself"" this is just false. The evidence I gave came Energy Information Agency, which is a very reputable source especially in contrast to no evidence from my opponent. Second, ""It appears that such claims can only be made with some or all of the following optimistic assumptions: no overruns in the times or costs of building nuclear plants, ignoring all the subsidies for nuclear power and assuming that capital costs have been paid off. When all the overt and hidden subsidies are taken into account, nuclear power is one of the most expensive ways of generating electricity"" once again this is completely false. The evidence from the Energy Information Agency speaks about the total levelized system cost, which takes into account everything and calculates the cost per Megawatt hour to run any form of electricity. ""To be competitive with other sources of power, nuclear power requires permanent support from tax payers or permanent support by means of market mechanisms or hidden subsidies. By contrast, most renewable forms of energy need temporary support until costs are reduced by economies of scales and refinement of technologies, and no further support after that."" One response, I've already refuted the point about subsidies so I won't do it again. But once again, like throughout the entire debate, you gave no evidence to substantiate such a significant claim: ""most renewable forms of energy need temporary support until costs are reduced by economies of scales and refinement of technologies, and no further support after that."" In conclusion, I've shown that Nuclear is much better then it's alternatives using clear evidence and have successfully refuted all my points. Whereas my opponent dropped all of my rebuttals and never used any evidence to substantiate their claims."	PRO	975
975	S996dd88-Aa8194e21	The US should increase its use of nuclear energy	"There will be 4 rounds. 1st round, both teams just post their arguments, no rebuttals. 2nd round, pro refutes neg's round 1arguments, neg then refutes pro's round 1 arguments and pro's round 2 rebuttal. 3rd round, pro will refute neg's round 2, neg will refute aff's round 3. 4th round, both teams give closings. Nuclear energy is the future of powering the United States’ massive and ever-growing infrastructure. It is intuitively and statistically the safest, most reliable, and most efficient method of producing electricity, which is why I support the topic that the US should increase its use of Nuclear Energy My arguments will be tiered, with smaller arguments as a part of the bigger ones. Argument 1: The current system, with a majority of energy being produced by coal and natural gas (41.9, 24.8) is harmful to the United States 1a)Generating energy with coal plants has many harmful side effects According to the UCS (Union of Concerned Scientists) in Environmental impacts of coal power: air pollution “Coal plants are the nation’s top source of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions, the primary cause of global warming. In 2011, utility coal plants in the United States emitted a total of 1.7 billion tons of CO2. Burning coal is also a leading cause of smog, acid rain, and toxic air pollution.” 1b)The acquisition of Natural Gas has many harmful side effects From The week staff, in an article titled “Natural gas: As bad for the environment as coal?” published April 13th, 2011 “Natural gas has been widely hailed as a cleaner alternative to fossil fuels, but a new study by Cornell University researchers suggests it's not as green as many people think.” Because I’ve already shown that coal is bad, this evidence proves that natural gas is no viable alternative either. Argument 2:There are many benefits of nuclear energy 2a)Nuclear energy is much cheaper to produce then its counterparts According to the Nuclear Energy Agency of the OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development) in an article titled “How Competitive is Nuclear Energy?” published in 2010 “Nuclear Energy is much cheaper to produce then its counter parts, within the USA Nuclear energy only costs 4.9 cents per Kilowatt hour as opposed to 7.2-7.5 for coal, 6.8 for coal with CCS, 7.7 for Gas CCGT (Combined cycle gas technology), and only being marginally beat by wind with 4.8 cents per Kilowatt hour.” This is significant, because although nuclear plants may cost a fair amount to build up front, in the long run they are much cheaper and profitable to run. 2b) Nuclear energy helps lead to the decommissioning of nuclear warheads According to Clay Dillow in Old Soviet Warheads Fuel America's Nuclear Power Industry published Nov. 11, 2009 “Decommissioned nuclear warheads provide much of the fuel powering America's 104 nuclear reactors. But here's the real kicker: nearly half of that low-enriched uranium comes from recycled Soviet nukes. Over the past 20 years, nuclear disarmament has become a huge part of the electricity industry, making President Obama's talks with Russia on a new arms treaty poignant to utilities. But if those talks don't extend the current program for dismantling Soviet nuke cores beyond its 2013 expiration date, there could be a supply gap for nuclear fuel.” This point is remarkably significant because the reduction of nukes around the world leads to a less threatening environment but it also helps boost the benefits of nuclear energy by providing a fuel source for it without much hassle. 2c) Thorium can decrease our dependance on foreign oil According to Colin Daileda from Mashable in an article titled “This Radioactive Element Could Power the Planet” published Nov. 7th, 2013 “If your car was powered by thorium, you would never need to refuel it.” The article concludes “One car, eight grams of Thorium, and a century of driving.” This is significant because if the US switches to Thorium technologies we can stop our dependence on foreign oil and also US consumers can save money which could be better spent elsewhere. 2d) Commercial use of nuclear power for space is expanding According to a SpaceX dossier from January of 2010 titled SpaceX Propulsion Space exploration technologies the company has in the works plans to use a nuclear thermal rocket to power future space flight. The article says the “Technology has been verified with over 17 Hours of hot-@257;re tests, including restarts. No additional developmental, terrestrial tests (with nuclear) fuel are required” this future of spaceflight would allow us to streamline space travel and leverage the positive impacts of nuclear energy as we move forward. Argument 3:There are multiple ways to acquire the benefits of nuclear energy 3a) Thorium based reactors are clean, safe, and waste free According to Sebastian Anthony’s article for ExtremeTech “Thorium nuclear reactor trial begins, could provide cleaner, safer, almost-waste-free energy” written Jul 1, 2013 “Natural thorium, which is fairly cheap and abundant (more so than uranium), doesn’t contain enough fissile material (thorium-231) to sustain a nuclear chain reaction. By mixing thorium oxide with 10% plutonium oxide, however, criticality is achieved. This fuel, which is called thorium-MOX (mixed-oxide), can then be formed into rods and used in conventional nuclear reactors. Furthermore, the thorium-MOX fuel cycle produces no new plutonium; it actually reduces the world’s stock of plutonium. Oh, thorium-MOX makes for safer nuclear reactors, too, due to a higher melting point and thermal conductivity.” This is significant because we can reap the tremendous benefits of Nuclear Energy without any of the drawbacks, and also it extends upon the impacts made earlier about increasing safety by decreasing warhead proliferation. 3b) Nuclear fusion is safe, uses relatively little fuel, and produces extreme amounts of energy The Way to New Energy."" ITER. (International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor) Jan. 2013. “Fusion fuels are abundantly available and inherently safe. […] In fact, a fusion reaction is about four million times more energetic than a chemical reaction such as the burning of coal, oil or gas. While a 1,000 MW coal-fired power plant requires 2.7 million tons of coal per year, a fusion plant of the kind envisioned for the second half of this century will only require 250 kilos of fuel per year, half of it deuterium, half of it tritium. In addition, fusion emits no pollution or greenhouse gases. Its major by-product is helium: an inert, non-toxic gas. There is no possibility of a ""runaway"" reaction because the conditions for fusion are precise—any alteration in these conditions and the plasma cools within seconds and the reaction stops. Fusion has the capacity to furnish large-scale quantities of energy, with a low burden of waste for future generations” This just furthers the fact that we can have extremely high amount of energy with little to no drawbacks. 3c) Fission reactors are safe, effective, and have high yields According to Teri Ehreesman from the Idaho National Laboratory “Just one uranium fuel pellet – roughly the size of the tip of an adult’s little finger – contains the same amount of energy as 17,000 cubic feet of natural gas, 1,780 pounds of coal or 149 gallons of oil”For the reducing the impacts of current energy technologies, providing economic benefits, subduing international conflicts, and having a multitude of options with very good results I urge a Pro vote."	PRO	976
976	S996dd88-A3c4f57f4	The US should increase its use of nuclear energy	"So first I'd like to begin by stating that you gave no evidence for most of your points although some of it is implied. 1. For this point I have two responses. First, there has never been a terrorist attack against a plant and most arguments along this line are just plain fear mongering. Second, even if a nuclear fallout was to occur the consequences wouldn't be too great. Chernobyl is the only evidence of nuclear fallout deaths in history. Prevented Mortality and Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Historical and Projected Nuclear Power Pushker A. Kharecha and James E. Hansen from the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies and Columbia University Earth Institute, printed 2013 ""However, empirical evidence indicates that the April 1986 Chernobyl accident was the world’s only source of fatalities from nuclear power plant radiation fallout. According to the latest assessment by the United Nations Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation (UNSCEAR), 43 deaths are conclusively attributable to radiation from Chernobyl as of 2006."" 2. My response to this is twofold. First, please do keep in mind the topic says ""The US should increase its use of nuclear energy."" It doesn't say the US shouldn't increase it's US of other sources of energy. So this gap could be bridged with renewables easily in that time. Second, you could replace the current reactor systems with Thorium based reactors and easily produce a much greater amount of energy. 3. I'm not quite sure what you're saying here, what makes nuclear not a ""real climate change solution""? 4. Construction cost isn't the only thing one should look at when building reactors. There's two things to look at. First is the overall levelized cost, which takes into account everything from construction and running the plant to taxes and paying employees. Which according to the EIA is 108.4 USD/MWh for nuclear. Although these costs may be more expensive then wind with 86.6, they are cheaper then other renewables such as solar which are at 144.3. Second is the capacity factor, which is how much of the power grid these forms of energy can even power. According to the same EIA source Nuclear sits at a whopping 90% opposed to 52, 34, and 25 for hydroelectric, wind, and solar, respectively. 5. A few things. First, you gave no source for this. Second, According to research done by the University Of Sheffield “Volume of nuclear waste could be reduced by 90 per cent says new research” November 6, 2013 “The researchers, from the University’s Faculty of Engineering, have shown that mixing plutonium-contaminated waste with blast furnace slag and turning it into glass reduces its volume by 85-95 per cent. It also effectively locks in the radioactive plutonium, creating a stable end product.” So you can easily just reduce most of the current waste and lock in all it's harmful side effects. Third, the Thorium reactors I proposed during my case can also easily eat through this waste solving this problem even further. 6. This argument is dishonest, you have the same transportation costs associated with forms of energy such as solar or wind. Which may usually be even more because you have to transport enough material for an entire wind farm. 7. Evidence? 8. Two responses. First, every reduction to CO2 is good and saying that cars are the issue just diverts attention away from the actual topic. Second, if you truly think this is the case then the renewables you proposed wouldn't be solving this problem either."	PRO	977
977	Sb1be1163-A2042ba96	"""X only gives birth to its kind"" is an invalid argument against Evolution"	"In this round I will rebut my opponent""s arguments of the second round. Due to their forfeiture I will not be adding anything to my earlier round. ""X only gives birth to its kind: For evolution to be true; an organism must be able to give birth or produce offspring that is not the same species."" As mentioned in my earlier round, the biological taxonomy is only able to be functional due to the gaps in between what we see in observable extinct and extant fauna. An animal is defined as a mammal as it feeds milk to its babies and are warm blooded. During the course of evolution there would have had to be a point at which a reptile stopped being cold blooded and started feeding milk to its offspring. These instances may not have happened at once either. We may have had warm blooded reptiles, or cold blooded mammals "" neither of which we have classifications for as each description has not been observed and as a result is mutually exclusive and counter intuitive. That being said, at some point there would have been at least one individual that would have had to cross over the arbitrary line in the sand that we have created in defining reptiles vs mammals. This individual then would have gain some traction and their population would have grown. So out of all the attributes of a mammal, what is the ultimate defining characteristic? As birds are also warm blooded, feeding young milk would be the defining characteristic of a mammal. Along the evolutionary path there would have been a point at which this began "" and it would have begun with one individual, and at that point that youngster would have been, not only another species but a totally different class. I am surprised my opponent claims that evolution does not happen at the individual level when evolution can only occur with the mutations in individuals that become more frequent within a population due to natural selection. This criticism of evolution is not a misunderstanding of gradualism, it simply highlights that if evolution is true, the current classification method that we use is quite deficient in being able to differentiate between gradually evolving populations. The arbitrary definitions that we assign to a specimen completely break down as soon as an individual specimen or a group of specimens cross over these arbitrary lines in the sand. ""X only gives birth to its kind: For evolution to be true, we should be able to see dogs turn into cows, or fish into men"" This is a bit of a simplification and misrepresentation of what evolutionary theory states, but there is a valid point in there amongst the mis-information. We would not expect to see a dog turn into a cow or a fish into men "" especially over one generation. But over many many generations a dog could evolve into a cow like creature just as a shrew like creature has evolved into the current mammalian menagerie that we currently have. Over time according to evolutionary theory animals will continue to change and evolve into many weird and wonderful random combinations. As mentioned earlier, there are significant variations within dogs, yet they are still dogs. As soon as they are geographically and reproductively isolated we would expect they should change "" but this hasn""t been observed yet. . ""The importance of this tree is mainly down to it not being violated; there are no examples where there are common traits in one branch that occur in multiple other branches without sharing a common ancestor with that trait"". This is quite a completely false statement. Similar traits can be found in multiple branches. Such instances are referred to as convergent evolution. Falcons and Hawks were thought to be closely related due to their similar bird of prey traits, but as referenced earlier Falcons are more closely related to Parrots. The tree is often violated, but evolutionary theory has the flexibility to overcome these contradictions via convergence, or the ability to add additional branches that either continue on today or are dead ends with yet another unknown common ancestor being created. ""X only gives birth to its kind: We should be able to see fundamental differences occurring between descendants and ancestors"" We do see fundamental differences between descendants and ancestors. Dogs are not sea dwelling creatures, nor are they reptilian. They may share some similar traits, such as a backbone and the like, but dogs are warm blooded, have fur, not scales and don""t lay eggs. In many respects they are nothing like reptiles or their sea dwelling ancestors at all. These are fundamental differences that dogs have with their ancestors. The beauty of evolutionary theory is that similarities are evidence of evolution, whilst differences are also evidence of evolution. Also if any new creature is found that doesn""t fit nicely into the tree of life, the solution is simple, another branch is added or a creature is moved from one branch to the next. ""The first issue with this, is that species cannot out-breed their ancestry. "" Dogs may not have out outgrown their invertebrate-ness, but they certainly outgrew their fishiness and their cold-bloodedness ""In this way, no species will ever become fundamentally different from it's any of its ancestors. A Dog will never produce a non-dog in the same way a mammal has never produced a non-mammal."" But reptiles have evolved into mammals, dinosaurs into birds, these are fundamentally different types of animals "" all species are all fundamentally different from their ancestors. Evolutionary theory is powerful, it shows how one type of creature can diverge and become many thousands of kinds throughout the world. Is it too much to ask to observe this occurring? If we don""t see it occur it is definitely a valid criticism of the theory."	CON	978
978	Se34b2994-A812be7ee	Nuclear Non Proliferation Treaty (NPT) should be abolished in its current form.	"In this closing round, I will adress all the points that were brought about in the debate (Note: Some arguments were dropped in the comments section with both sides agreement and will not be part of this round or the debate). My arguments (i) Banning all nuclear weapons As I have mentioned before the world is moving towards a ban. Four of the NPT nuclear weapons states are decreasing the number of nuclear warheads that they have and only China's stockpile is still increasing. They have already signed Partial bans and Test bans and are now moving toward a complete ban. My response to my opponent claim of it being unrealistic: Firstly, nations that are not part of the NPT nuclear five have nuclear weapons anyway, so it is just as unrealistic to expect that the NPT works as intended as it is to ban Nuclear Weapons entirely. My opponent can hardly say that bans are unrealistic when the NPT itself is not working as intended. In fact, as my opponent points out, South Africa dismantled its Nuclear Weapons program, so bans are possible. Secondly, if the U.S., UK, China, Russia, and France all have long ""rap sheets"" of violating international laws, agreements, treaties, as my opponent argues, why then are they entrusted with Nuclear Weapons and called ""responsible states?"" (ii) Imbalance of power My opponent says that North Korea attacked South Korea. If only South Korea had nuclear weapons, North Korea would have exercised caution. Also South Korea would be able to defend themselves accordingly. (iii) ""Responsible powers"" The UK and France which colonized and enslaved many countries are not more ""responsible"" than Iran. The colonial people never did them any harm but they enslaved people in Asia and Africa anyways. My opponent says ""The U.S. has considered using nuclear weapons in large conflicts but refused to. That shows restraint."" Doesn't negate the fact that the US used Nuclear Weapons that caused the death of between 150,000 to 246,000 civilians in Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Killing hundreds of thousands of civilians because Japan ignored the unfair ""surrender terms"" by the US is hardly a justified reason. Con's case (i) Proliferation Con argues that NPT opposes the exchange of NW's. This argument does not stand on its own but is dependent on the argument that the big five are ""Responsible powers"" who can be entrusted to have NW's and should not give NW's to ""irresposible"" nations. (ii)""Rap Sheets"" I don't know if my opponent realizes that he is shooting himself in the foot by pointing out the long ""rap sheets"" of the Nuclear Five. These are the reasons why the Nuclear Five are not ""resposible nations"" and should not have exclusive power to make nuclear weapons. In my opponent's words: The U.S. violated international law repeatedly by sending U-2 spy planes over the USSR. Russia violated the START treaty by developing new ICBM's. The U.S. violated international law by producing biological weapons. Russia violated international law by attacking Georgia in the South Ossetia War. Some of these violations are minor, but others are rather horrifying. Regardless, Russia and the U.S. have already outright violated international laws and treaties by producing nuclear and biological weapons. Therefore, The big five cannot be trusted to uphold international law. Conclusion The NPT is an unfair treaty which only allows the big five to use Nuclear Weapons and has a completely arbitrary time limit that only states which made weapons before 1967 can have them. It appoints these big five as ""Nuclear Weapons states"" and does not allow any new nations to join even if they meet UN safeguards. The big five are by no means peaceful or responsible states and entrusting them with Nuclear Weapons while other countries go without them is irresponsible. The NPT should be abolished in favor of a completely different treaty which either bans Nuclear Weapons altogether or has an objective UN specified method of allowing any state to join as long as they safeguard their weapons."	PRO	979
979	Se34b2994-Af78bd53f	Nuclear Non Proliferation Treaty (NPT) should be abolished in its current form.	I will be taking the stance that the NPT is a necessary and important treaty that we should continue to uphold I may add additional arguments as the debate carries on. Argument: The NPT prevents irresponsible nations from possessing nuclear arms. Nations such as North Korea, Iran, or various other 3rd world nations are not as stable as the current governments that posses nuclear weapons. The U.S., China, UK, Russia, etc all have strong safeguards in place to prevent nuclear weapons from being used irresponsibly. For example, the president of the U.S. cannot wake up one day in a bad mood and decide to attack Sweden with a nuclear bomb because damn it Sweden had it comin'. That order has to be unanimously approved by fellow political leaders and then has to be approved by multiple military leaders, go down the chain of command all the way down to the Air Force officers that are in possession of partial launch codes (since no one holds the complete launch codes). There is no doubt that such a complex safeguard will NOT be implemented in autocratic and poor nations that reside in the Middle East, Africa, South East Asia, etc Refutations: First off, let's get rid of the option of a treaty banning nuclear weapons from every nation assuming neither of us don't believe in fairy tales. That only leaves the option of allowing every nation to posses nuclear arms. NPT creates an imbalance of power My opponent says that the NPT creates an imbalance of power between nuclear states and non nuclear states. My response is: GOOD. There should definitely NOT be a balance of power between the United States of America and North Korea or Iran, etc. If there was the U.S. as well as other western nations would be competing militarily with nations that have clearly evil purposes such as Iran's threat to wipe Israel of the map or North Korea's continuing threats against the United States and South Korea. Currently, if Iran where to try anything against Israel, the U.S. and Israel could bomb Iran back to the stone age, granted they wouldn't have far to fall at least we'd have the upper hand in a justly fought war. With my opponent's only realistic alternative after abolishing the NPT, Iran would have a nuclear arsenal capable of inflicting millions of casualties on Israeli citizens as well as military personnel (Perhaps U.S. personnel as well). The NPT only allows state that created nuclear weapons before 1965 to keep them I concede this point. I say that stable states with strong safeguards should be allowed to keep nuclear weapons such as Russia, India, Brazil, etc. But this only means that the NPT should be slightly revised, not abolished completely. Who are we to decide who should have nuclear weapons? We are the responsible powers who don't have outright destructive intentions of instigating a nuclear holocaust or starting a genocide or expanding our territorial claims in a bloody war that could quickly deteriorate into a nuclear confrontation. Even if you're an anarchist/anti-american/libertarian/liberal/etc or a member of any other group that opposes U.S./Western foreign intervention, you must believe that the chances of the U.S. or the UK ACTUALLY using its nuclear arsenal in a war are very slim to none. Do you honestly think Iran or North Korea or some fanatic leader of a banana republic will show the same restraint? Back to you PRO.	CON	980
980	S1f2335a0-A30368594	Debate.org should reform its voting criteria	"I want to thank my opponent for his swift response. I applaud my opponent, he makes a convincing argument, except it only sounds good on paper, not in real life... I have read DDO's rules and voting criteria, but that still doesn't make the voting system more objective. There are no safeguards to insure objectivity. People vote without even reading the debate. Some people know you have won, but will look for anything to site you for, such as a misspelled word, or a tiny grammatical error. They want to appear impartial, but still find fault so they don't have to vote for you. Why is the first two criteria even included if there are no points awarded for it? If you agree with pro BEFORE the debate, but change your mind to agree with CON after the debate, then Con deserves point for swaying the opinion of the voter. Yet this is not the case with this site. And links...why does links really matter? The argument is what is most important..I cant stand reading some debates, where every 2 or 3 sentences there's another link...if there ""fact"" seems sketchy, I have Google at my fingertips to validate his claim..if its bunk, then he probably wont get my vote...I'm not saying links should not be considered, or that they should be removed as a criteria, but maybe should not be as many points, or should be combined with another criteria...anyone can find a .gov link to make it look official. This does not make their argument better. Conclusion.... This system is flawed because there aren't enough points given to a person who has the most convincing argument. Points awarded are 3. Points for everything else combined is 4. So basically you could have the better argument, (which is what is the most important in a debate) but because maybe you had a few grammatical errors, maybe your ""conduct"" wasn't as good(basically you didn't kiss your opponents but) and your links didn't have .gov at the end, and you still lose because the system puts more value on trivial things....The system should award enough points the argument to equal the sum of all the rest..so that way a person cant win even though their argument is weaker... This should be modelled after oral debate. IN oral debate, the MOST important thing is your argument. In an oral debate, all other things are secondary."	PRO	981
981	Sd0229689-A6b80edd7	Liberalism in its modern form is a mental disorder* * must credit Dr Michael Savage	This is simple One of you brilliant verbose lib kids come and prove me wrong here is review to tempt you In this Book Savage set's out to show and to prove that Liberalism is a mental disorder and I must say he proves his case by a long shot. Savage accomplishes this feat by laying out extremely important issues and problems facing The USA (Such as the War On terror, the War in Iraq, Border security and the alien invasion in our country; And the Attack on our businesses especially small businesses by the radical lawyers, courts, environmentalists, etc.,) And he shows how liberal solutions are absolutely insane. He also provides the solutions (read the book). Savage also shows how these Ideal and ideas of liberalism have taken complete control of the democrat party and are in much control of the republican party as well. Savage outlines how we can take back our country. besides the fact this series of Books by Savage are very important if we are to survive as a nation, and they are an engaging and entertaining read; So you will enjoy reading them and more so in learning from them. love, your favorite conservative you love to hate (unless you have heard Dr Savage) now note: I will personally come up with at least 10 reasons and DSM type disorders to show , without a doubt , that hard core leftists, known in todays parlance as liberals, which IS A MISNOMER from the TRUE LIBERALS, like my wife, are INSANE I LOVE how the liberals on this site have called ME insane I think its hillarious without end! ha ha ha ha ha! Happy New Year	PRO	982
982	Sd0229689-A30f6599d	Liberalism in its modern form is a mental disorder* * must credit Dr Michael Savage	Ok works done for now Now , liberalism is a mental disorder -arguments First of all I want to make clear I am talking about modern day leftists otherwise known as democrats mostly, sometimes greens, or more fringe True liberals like Thomas jefferson and Benjamin Franklin are the epitome of sane, defenders of LIBERTY Now my arguments HERE YOU GO To be a liberal, you have to believe the AIDS virus is spreading due to a lack of funding. To be a liberal, you have to be against capital punishment but for abortion on demand—in short, you support protecting the guilty and killing the innocent. To be a liberal, you have to believe that the same public school system that can't teach 4th graders how to read is capable of teaching those same kids about sex. To be a liberal, you have to believe that trial lawyers are selfless heroes and doctors are overpaid, greedy, bad guys. To be a liberal, you have to believe that guns in the hands of law-abiding Americans are more of a threat than nuclear weapons in the hands of the Red Chinese. To be a liberal, you have to believe that global temperatures are less affected by cyclical, documented changes in the brilliance of the Sun, and more affected by yuppies driving SUVs. To be a liberal, you have to believe that gender roles are artificial but being gay is natural. To be a liberal, you have to believe that the biggest threat to this country are those who believe morals, ethics, and family values are essential. To be a liberal, you have to believe that punishment for a crime should depend on motive, i.e. killing a person because they dislike them is worse than killing that same person because they want their money. To be a liberal, you have to believe that businesses create oppression and governments create prosperity. To be a liberal, you have to believe that killing a child in the womb should be legal, but breaking an eagle's egg should be criminal. To be a liberal, you have to believe that good intentions are equal to actually accomplishing something. To be a liberal, you have to believe that the government should reward those contribute the least and punish by taxing those who work hard and succeed. To be a liberal, you have to believe that governmental laws and regulations are the answer, not freedom and competition. To be a liberal, you have to believe that art would not exist without federal funding. To be a liberal, you have to believe the military, not corrupt politicians, start wars. To be a liberal, you have to believe the NRA is bad, because of their support for certain parts of the Constitution, while the ACLU is good, because of their support for certain parts of the Constitution. To be a liberal, you have to believe that standardized tests are racist, but racial quotas and set-asides aren't. To be a liberal, you have to believe that minorities are not capable of making it without your help and conservatives are racists because they believe everyone should be treated as equal. To be a liberal, you have to believe that cigarettes pose more danger to our kids and our society than illegal drugs. and wait theres MORE! Liberalism wins because of its essentially satanic glamour, which appeals to and propagates all that is weak, broken and ugly in mankind: If you are lazy, it offers a handout. If you are stupid, it dumbs down your competition. If you are worthless, it offers (false) self-esteem. If you are confused, it says that certainty is the REAL confusion. If you are evil, it offers a denial of guilt. If you are a liar, it offers a denial of the existence of truth. If you are a coward, it offers its own false security. If you are a slave to sin, it names your shackles, FREEDOM. If there are two equally qualified people applying for the same job and one is a minority, do you think: The minority should get the job? (Liberal view) Each candidate should have an equal shot at the job? (Conservative view) If you said the minority should get the job in the previous question; would you change your mind if it was you competing against the minority? Yes. (Conservative view) No. (Liberal view) I answered they should have an equal shot at the job in the last question. Do you think law abiding citizens with no criminal record should be able to own a handgun? Yes. (Conserative view) No. (Liberal view) Do you think law abiding citizens have the right to defend themselves with a gun if they are threatened? Yes. (Conservative view) No. (Liberal view) If you said that law abiding citizens should not be able to defend themselves with a gun in the previous question, would you change your mind if it was you or one of your family members being attacked? No. (Liberal view) Yes. (Conservative view) Do you believe you can succeed in life on your own, or do you think you need the government's assistance to succeed? I need the government to help me succeed; I can't make it on my own. (Liberal view) I can do anything I put my mind to; I don't need the government's help. (Conservative view) Do you think men and women can do the same jobs equally? Yes, and even if women can't do a job as well as a man, the requirements should be changed to accomodate the woman. (Liberal view) No, there are some jobs that men do better just as there are some jobs that women do better, but either way, a man or woman should be able to hold a particular job as long as they can do it without changing the job requirements. (Conservative view) Do you think English should be the official language of the US? No, all languages should be allowed to maintain various cultures. (Liberal view) Yes, just as other countries have one official language, English should be the primary language. There is nothing stopping anyone from speaking another language privately. (Conservative view) Do you think abortion for any reason is OK? Yes. (Liberal view) No. (Conservative view) If you think abortion is OK for any reason, would you change your mind if you were the fetus that was to be aborted? No. (Liberal view) Yes. (Consevative view) Do you think a person has the right to make as much money as they can as long as they earn it legally? Yes. (Conservative view) No, it's not fair that some people have more money than others. Wealth should be spread around evenly. (Liberal view) If you said you think people should not be able to make as much money as they can and that money should be spread evenly among people, would you change your mind if it was you who was making a ton of money? No, I shouldn't be allowed to make so much money. (Liberal view) Yes, if I made it, it's mine. (Conservative view) Do you think that the US should try to get rid of dictators who torture and kill in other countries (such as Iraq) and try to establish democracies? Yes. (Conservative view) No. (Liberal view) If you answered no to the previous question, would you change your mind if members of your family lived in a particular country and were being tortured? Yes. (Conservative view) No. (Liberal view) If you spilled hot coffee purchased from McDonalds on yourself and were burned, would you: Sue McDonalds because there was no warning on the cup that the coffee was hot. (Liberal view) Believe it was your fault that you spilled the coffee and that you should have known it was hot. (Conservative view) Ok basically this proves if you are a current lib youre mentally ill! GROW UP ! BE A CONSERVATIVE! wooooooooooo hooooooooooooooooooooo!	PRO	983
983	S3d30da9-A56b13e36	The United States Government ought to provide Universal Healthcare for its Citizens	"This round will be used for conclusions and responses to my opponents final round. My opponent, in order to win, must demonstrate that the USG ought to provide Universal healthcare for its citizens. Hence, my opponent has the full burden of proof. All I was required to do was negate the resolution. I did so primarily contesting the use of ""ought"" in the resolution. Please note that this was not abusive semantics; my opponent fully recognized the moral requisites of upholding her burden of proof. I also provided a limited a response to the contentions my opponent made without going into too much detail because her contentions were totally irrelevent until she had demonstrated that anyone ought to do anything. Sadly my opponent has shown an incredibly weak offering, not only in this regard but also in what she had presumed where her primary contentions. I will not pretend to be too disappointed. I was challenged by an individual on a topic I care little for, however, despite these low expectations, my opponent was not able to offer the barest entertainment. First I will deal with the preamble, then her ""contentions"" and then finish by going over each voting catagory. She first claims that she had asked for it to be an LD-debate prior to my posting of a round. This is self-evidently false as the comment below it refers to her round 2, so it was clearly after my first round. I can't really find any other explanation for this other than willful deception. This should cost her the conduct points. I would then state that I am not required to make a case, only defeat yours. You took on the full burden of proof. My opponent, in a highly confused spiel about supporting moral obligation by supporting morality (I found this particularly amusing), still fails to make a philosophical argument as to why any body ought to do anything. Using various reasons as ""making people live longer"" or helping the poor do not constitute a moral philosophy. They are claims which already presume a moral philosophy. Her entire case on morality is an appeal to emotion, a logical fallacy. She then claims I concede her debate. Seriously? What the hell? She then asserts that this appeal to emotion is a reason for why the USG ought to provide healthcare. Archangel, you weren't hugely clear, but you were understandable. This works against you however, because you're total lack of an argument for morality existing is apparent. You came close when you touched on the good of society, but sadly you lacked the necessary argument to back it up. =( Then she makes another false claim. I gave the straightest answer possible to her first question; Moral neutrality. She then makes the bear assertion that my answer is wrong, with no reasoning to back it up. Saying society will be healthier does not constitute a moral argument. As for the second question, no I did not make any suggestion that more doctors is necessary better. Constant obvious miscontruals of my fairly clear case is highly irritating. 1. Failed to make an argument. Doesn't support resolution without proving morality. 2. Yes. I agree the free-market is not anti-capitalist. However, what you are suggesting is! State healthcare is by its definition anti-capitalist. Do you even know what the words you are using mean? 3. Does not justify dichotomy between needs and wants and does not support any reason to believe healthcare is one not the other. Furthermore, no demonstration of the right to life at the expense of another is shown. I will admit my responses to her ""contentions"" are short. However, the primary issue with her case, and the main reason why I refused to engage meaningfully on that side of the debate is because it illustrates a weak showing which can be refuted in less than three lines of argument. So in summary; Pro has failed to meet her Burden of proof in every conceivable way. She has not demonstrated that anyone ought to do anything, she has not proven that healthcare is a moral issue and she has not even demonstrated that UHC is a desirable institution. Arguments: She had full BoP. Failed to meet. 3 points to moi Conduct: Before this round, I would have understood if you had given them to her, as though I made my intentions very clear, I still did change the direction of the debate. However, her willful dishonesty regarding my case and attempt to change the rules post-framework should tip the balance in my favour here. Sources: No points. Her sources were decent, but irrelevent as they did not support her case without an argument for morality. S/G: Neither parties were horrendous. In conclusion to the debate: never challenge a lazy man without a good response to a lazy argument."	CON	984
984	S3d30da9-A980df84f	The United States Government ought to provide Universal Healthcare for its Citizens	"Hello viewers, I would like to first say that my opponent has not posted his argument at all, giving me nothing to argue. This is a Lincoln Douglas debate in which both the opponents are required to give arguments and all he posts is against my argument. And all the arguments must be presented in the 1st round (in this case it is the R2 because the first was acceptance). Since Thaddeus didn't post his argument, he has conceded. Now I will move on to defend my argument. Thaddeus says that I have introduced my definitions after he has. I have only done so because he has not included all of the definitions that I have presented in my case. And I have done nothing wrong as I clearly stated R1 was for acceptance. If you look at what Thaddeus wrote in his R2, he says word for word ""My opponent is correct that the value of the debate is morality."" By saying this he completely AGREES with my case. A point to be noted Judge. He then says I make a ridiculous leap to my criterion. When I state my criterion, I am saying that read my whole case and see how my criterion upholds my value in this debate. My opponent states that there is no objective morality. I am saying that the United States Government ought to provide Universal Health Care for its Citizens because of all the reasons stated in my case in R2. Now I have some questions for my opponent to answer: Do you think it is Moral for many millions of Americans to die simply because they have genetic and untreatable diseases and are too ill to work and make money? Would you rather have more or less doctors readily available to treat patients? Judge, I thank you for your time and I urge you to vote Affirmative (Pro) for all the reasons stated above."	PRO	985
985	S3d30da9-Ab87fd7b4	The United States Government ought to provide Universal Healthcare for its Citizens	This is the topic for this debate. Resolved: The United States ought to guarantee universal health care for its citizens. Round 1: Acceptance Round 2: Presenting Main Arguments Round 3: Disputing and Defending Main Arguments Round 4: Conclusions and Responses to Round 3. Thank you.	PRO	986
986	S3d30da9-A79b8a195	The United States Government ought to provide Universal Healthcare for its Citizens	"My opponent has utterly ignored her burden of proof which has been laid out to her time and time again. However, I am a merciful God and will let her make a new argument in the final round. Not only this, but I will play her game (despite her arguments having no bearing on the resolution until she has demonstrated why anyone ""ought"" to do anything) Before I get into the meat of the arguments there are a few things that need to be made clear; When one challenges someone to a debate, if they want specific rules (such as using their own definitions or making it LD debate) they must be stated in the first round. If one doesn't, then they can't in later rounds declare certain rules and criteria and expect their opponents to co-operate fully is ridiculous. If I were to claim that every round should have some level of DDO meta-humour and declare my opponent the loser by default because she has not included a reference to Royal PMS-ing or DK secretly being in love with me (he is by the way - seriously the PMs he sends me are crimes to good taste) at this point, it would be utterly unfair and foolish to expect the voters to respect that. Similarly, in no place in the first round did you state you definitions, your desired framework aside from round structure or other matters so to declare them now and expect me to say, ""yeah, OK"" is crazy and abusive. Now to the matters of the debate. I shall first counter my opponents last round. I remind my readers and my opponent that for her to fulfil her burden of proof she must not only demonstrate that ""The United States Government ought to provide Universal Healthcare for its Citizens"", but also that any entity ""ought"" to do anything. That is to say; that an objective moral standard exists by which we can judge an entity having a moral obligation to do anything. Bearing this in mind, I am completely correct to concede that the value by which we must judge this debate is morality, but that is nowhere near conceding it exists, which my opponent erroneously believes. In fact it is solely a recognition of what my opponent must demonstrate before her case can even be considered. Her argument makes no case for morality existing, hence I have nothing to refute other than state that there is no evidence for an objective moral standard which means any entity ought to do something. In the absence of such an argument my opponent has failed to meet her burden of proof. She also makes the claim that I did not read her case. Now unless I'm blind and there are several paragraphs philosophically or otherwise demonstrating that an objective moral standard exists and ""should"" be observed that claim is seems obviously false. ""I am saying that the United States Government ought to provide Universal Health Care for its Citizens because of all the reasons stated in my case in R2."" That is making the is-ought fallacy; http://en.wikipedia.org.... Those reasons presented in R2 do not suggest that the US government ought to do anything, unless morality is proven. Onto the questions; ""Do you think it is Moral for many millions of Americans to die simply because they have genetic and untreatable diseases and are too ill to work and make money?"" It is neither moral nor immoral. ""Would you rather have more or less doctors readily available to treat patients?"" I don't really care. On a matter of personal preference, as long as there are doctors to treat me when I am sick, I'd be happy, but I am more than willing to pay for that myself. Thus, my opponent has yet again utterly failed to meet her BoP. It is getting tiring now. To make it totally clear so that she understands: in order for your arguments to have merit you must demonstrate that morality exists, otherwise we default to moral nihilism - the result of which is that no-one has any moral obligation to do anything, thus disproving the resolution. I will now briefly counter the arguments presented in R2 as a matter of completeness, however, I would warn my opponent to not respond to this unless she first has provided a case for the existence of morality. Otherwise she is just wasting her own time. Contention 1: Why should anyone get anything at someone else's expense? We could improve welfare of many citizens by buying them all cars, but that doesn't mean we should do it. Universal healthcare is not free. It costs others. Would you want to be forced to buy another's car? The answer is likely no. Why do you make a distinction for other goods. As to part b), not only this a ridiculously naive approach to economics, in countries with UHC, such as my own, the UK, costs have gone up, not down. In layman's terms debt will only increase if you buy more. Health-care is not a good investment for boosting aggregate demand as the costs primarily get sunk into the old, who will never be able to contribute again. Furthermore, it is entirely arguable that the free market can provide a superior service, which is cheaper; http://www.cato.org... (quite a sizeable document so I'd recomend only reading the summary) Contention 2 Here you contradict yourself; you advocate capitalism and yet suggest that the opposite (socialised healthcare) should be implemented. Furthermore you make completely unsupported claims that the government is required to encourage growth. This is not only a bare assertion but highly contentious. There is a great deal of literature to suggest the exact opposite (http://mises.org...) Your final sentence about buses is a bare assertion too. Why can't the free market provide those as well? Contention 3 ""It isn""t moral for someone to not get health insurance just because they can""t afford it"" It isn""t moral for someone to not get a car just because they can""t afford it It isn""t moral for someone to not get a PS3 just because they can""t afford it It isn""t moral for someone to not get prostitutes just because they can""t afford it What do all these sentences have in common? They are all equally supported by arguments presented by Pro, which is to say, not at all. The rest of this argument is just a sob-story with no bearing on the debate. All secondary arguments are refuted. The resolution is negated. Cheers ladies and gents."	CON	987
987	S3d30da9-A714341b3	The United States Government ought to provide Universal Healthcare for its Citizens	First off, I would like to thank my opponent for accepting this debate. I would like to thank any viewers as well. Your input is greatly appreciated. And I would like to say that all my sources are at the bottom. Judge, any preferences? Judge ready? Opponent Ready? The United States has witnessed skyrocketing health care costs. Due to out of out of control health care costs, there has been a rise in the number of uninsured Americans. Our current health care cost is twice as much as other developed nations, and far less effective than other countries. Therefore, I Affirm the Resolution. Resolved: The United States ought to guarantee universal health care for its citizens. Definitions Ought:Used to express duty or moral obligation (Dictionary.com) Guarantee: An assurance for the fulfillment of a condition (Merriam-Webster) Universal Health Care: Universal Health Care is defined as health care provided to all individuals regardless of gender, race, region, age, health status, income, or wealth. The state can provide universal health care in many ways including: Paying health care providers from a single organization, subsidizing coverage through the private sector, or providing vouchers or refundable tax credits to obtain health care in the private sector. How it is done, is not our concern for the purposes of this debate (House Legislative State) Citizen: A native or naturalized member of a state of nation who owes allegiance to its government and is entitled to its protection (Dictionary.com) Value and Criterion The Value of this debate is Morality. Morality is principle or system of morals; the conformity to the rules of right conduct. Therefore the criterion of this debate is the Utilitarianism. [Utilitarianism is the ethical doctrine that virtue is based on utility, and that conduct should be directed toward promoting the greatest happiness for the greatest number of persons.] Contention 1: Assuring Health Care would Increase Welfare for the Majority of Citizens. a) A study released in late June of 2012, the consumer advocacy group Families USA estimates that a record high of 26,100 people aged 25 to 64 died for lack of health coverage in 2010, up from about 20,300 in 2005 and 18,000 in 2000. It was also stated that the research concluded that 3 people die per hour, or 72 preventable deaths per day. The same instituteestimated 22,000 deaths nationwide in 2006 due to no health care. There is overwhelming evidence that Americans without health care get less preventive care. (David Morgan, Washington Post). b) Over the years, health care costs have increased to help the 50 million Americans without insurance. Today, health care accounts for one-sixth of the economy - more than any other single aspect or organization. Health care has grown by about 427,000 jobs - nearly 3 percent - since the beginning of the recession in 2007, and now accounts for more than a total of 15.5 million jobs. Most of these cares are mainly from ambulatory care services and hospitals (Daily Herald). With healthcare, the economy grows in number of jobs, in return, reducing the number of debt by having more working citizens. By providing health care, the total cost to the system comes down. Because everyone would receive treatment, the overall price for health care would go down. Therefore reducing the debt. Contention 2: The Government is required to Encourage Growth and Activity in the Economy. The US government is here to provide stability and promote the best for its citizens. The US government is based on capitalism. Capitalism is an economic system in which investment in and ownership of the means of production, distribution, and exchange of wealth is made and maintained chiefly by private individuals or corporations, especially as contrasted to cooperatively or state-owned means of wealth (Dictionary.com). Without the government helping our everyday life, we wouldn’t be able to use government property such as busses, metros and many more. Contention 3: Too Many People die because they cannot get Proper Care It isn’t moral for someone to not get health insurance just because they can’t afford it, Nikki White is proof of this. White suffered from a severe form of Lupus (an auto-immune disease), as her health slowly deteriorated, she became unable to work and lost her insurance. She was unable to pay for each doctor visit as it costed her more than 2,000 because she was out of work for four years. She died of complications secondary to a failed health care system. Many experts say that if White had received the care she need when she needed, she would have survived. Many people like her, avoid the doctor because of the cost. Then, when they get too ill, they go to the hospital and can’t pay the huge bill. Well, someone has to pay it. The hospital sends it to insurance which sends the cost other places and eventually adds to the debt. If health care is provided, then the overall cost will go down and people will actually be able to afford it. Birth rates and life expectancy are beyond AWFUL in USA. But aren’t we supposed to be the best country ever? Yeah, then how come we have the worst birth rates compared to all other developed nations? US’s health care right now is BAD, too many people are dying. So judge, I urge you to vote Affirmative (Pro). Thank You. Sources: UHC - http://www.house.leg.state.mn.us... - (House Legislative State) - September 2007. Contention 1a - http://www.msnbc.msn.com... - David Morgan, Washington Post – June 2012 Contention 1b - http://www.heraldextra.com... - Daily Herald - June 2009. Contention 3 - http://www.dailykos.com... - Daily Kos - July 2009	PRO	988
988	S5d50491e-Aea231e27	The US Federal Goveronment should abolish 99%of its functions	"My opponent has completely dropped his points on the national debt. He has also failed to address my points about the constitution being the authority for governmental power. He attacks my defense of anarchism, somewhat because he still has ignored a majority of my round. Defense of Anarchism Pro tries to claim under a republican government there would be checks in place to balance power. However, this is where we see the self-refuting nature of his argument. If humans can put checks in place, then it shows we can keep each other in check and if powers can balance themselves, then why can’t a horizontal structure where everybody is in charge balance itself? If human nature is so corrupt, then so would the said checks we put in place. He has failed to answer my second point, asking for justification of Madison’s assertion. He has also ignored my point that human nature is flexible. Instead he strawmans my point on the Semai (which I’ll discuss later). Nor has he done anything to attack my model of “natural law” enforcement. His argument from human nature has been thoroughly refuted. Defense of the Revolution What does he have to say in regards to defense? He says there are some advantages to centralized armies. However, his reason for the Ottoman’s victory is because they were “more disciplined and organized”, but being organized and disciplined doesn’t entail centralization at all. Platformism argues for tight organization of anarchist groups [1] and the Revolutionary Insurrectionary Army of Ukraine itself followed this philosophy. There is nothing contradictory about being organized and disciplined in an anarchist army Anyway, I never once claimed a centralized army is necessarily weak so his argument is moot to begin with. I argued that a decentralized bottom-up army can work, so it’s not necessary to have a centralized force. And again, Pro ignores all my arguments for that point. He also ignores the problem with an army being in blind obedience to an authority. He completely misunderstands my point about the Semai culture. I am not advocating for pacifism at all, nor does anything in my argument suggest this point. The Semai were used merely to point out human nature isn’t inherently violent and competitive. Although, his point is completely wrong anyway. The Semai weren’t destroyed by the British, they still exist today. The Semai were used by the British to fight in their wars [2] and their nonviolence is culturally threatened by British influence. Government establishing power Pro states that the job of democracy will keep government officials from obtaining power. The problem is, what if 51% of the people buy into propaganda of more governmental control? He provides an analogy that just because it failed once, doesn't mean we should stop trying and abolish it. Similar to a math test. The problem is the very nature of hierarchy entails the will to grab power, as it will further the interests of those in charge. Power corrupts even those who try to act honestly [3], reduces the ability to empathize [4], and tends to make people act selfishly [ibid]. Instilling a system of government will lead to those attempting to grab more power for themselves and putting them in charge of the military will give them the power to expand their interests. We can fuss around with attempted legal proceedings of which the government is in charge of to begin with. Or, we can instill a horizontal structure where no man is in charge of another. I will also point out, this is only one of many of my arguments in favor of abolishment. Pro has never tried to rebut coherently the moral or the maximization of freedom argument. Capitalism For some reason, Pro felt the need to argue for capitalism. It seems to be in response to a statement I made in the funding argument. Although I am an anti-capitalist, I allowed for the possibility of capitalism to remain in existence, so I’m not sure why Pro felt the need to argue this point. Nonetheless, I will defend alternatives to capitalism. His argument is that capitalism increased the standards of living and brought people out of poverty. This is a bad argument because so too did Hitler’s economic policies boost the economy and increase living standards [5]. That doesn’t mean we should accept fascism. The living standards of slaves also increased, but that isn’t an argument in favor of slavery. Pro never explains how capitalism brings people out of poverty or how such a thing exists only for capitalism and not for some other system. Until he explains how, his statements cannot be taken to be arguments for capitalism. Alternatives to capitalism have actually been proven to be successful, such is the case with the anarcho-socialist revolution in Spain. In certain areas of Spain after defeating Franco’s fascist government, anarchists collectivised workplaces and abided by socialistic systems (mutualism, collectivism and communism). Orwell. who was there during the time wrote: “In theory it was perfect equality, and even in practice it was not far from it. There is a sense in which it would be true to say that one was experiencing a foretaste of Socialism, by which I mean that the prevailing mental atmosphere was that of Socialism. Many of the normal motives of civilized life—snobbishness, money-grubbing, fear of the boss, etc.—had simply ceased to exist. The ordinary class-division of society had disappeared to an extent that is almost unthinkable in the money-tainted air of England; there was no one there except the peasants and ourselves, and no one owned anyone else as his master….Yet so far as one could judge the people were contented and hopeful. There was no unemployment, and the price of living was still extremely low; you saw very few conspicuously destitute people, and no beggars except the gypsies. Above all, there was a belief in the revolution and the future, a feeling of having suddenly emerged into an era of equality and freedom. Human beings were trying to behave as human beings and not as cogs in the capitalist machine.” [6] Historian Gaston Leval writes: “the various agrarian and industrial collectives immediately instituted economic equality in accordance with the essential principle of communism, 'From each according to his ability and to each according to his needs.' They co-ordinated their efforts through free association in whole regions, created new wealth, increased production (especially in agriculture), built more schools, and bettered public services.” [7] Clearly this shows not only anarchism, but also post-capitalist structures working in practice. In summary, Pro has ignored a majority of my arguments. He has only tried to deal with my argument that his plan is ineffective. He has not yet attacked my freedom argument nor has he properly rebutted my moral argument. He has dropped both his arguments in favor of attempting to defend the state’s existence. Even when he does this, his argument still fall flat, as he makes self-refuting claims while ignoring all of my other arguments. I have demonstrated that the best thing for the USFG to do is cease to exist, abolish 100% of its functions. Sources [1] http://nefac.net... [2] https://cas.uab.edu... [3] http://www.dailymail.co.uk... [4] https://www.oveo.org... [5] http://www.ihr.org... [6] Orwell, George (1980) [1938]. ""chapter 1"". Homage to Catalonia. [7] ""Introductory Essay,"" The Anarchist Collectives, Sam Dolgoff pp.6-7"	CON	989
989	Sde24f30f-A1a626948	Resolved: Texas would best serve its interest by seceding from the Union	The Resolution asks us to evaluate secession in light of Texas’ interests. A cost benefit analysis of the points in the round to see which world offers the strongest hope of a bright Texas future. Culture This point doesn’t even register in the cost/benefit analysis when compared to issues like terrorism, global economic collapse, and civil war. Additionally, I showed that Texas is quite diverse and Pro offered no evidence that cultural homogeneity is even desirable. Economy of Scale Pro offers meager evidence – he admits he only shows the economy of scale is a “sufficient” criteria for a healthy government without providing evidence that Texas will not become corrupt. His case claims that large countries like China and Russia are corrupt, ignoring the fact that the US is not. The impacts on this point are miniscule, the US is not corrupt so any improvement would be marginal at best. Economy Pro’s advantage is the collapse of the US economy due to deficit spending. Pro admits that this collapse is “decades” off, meaning we have plenty of time to try to fix the problem, which the status quo is by cutting spending by over $2 trillion. The global economy is so interconnected and the post-recession economy so fragile that the collapse of the US economy would cause the collapse of the global economy; whether Texas secedes or not, its economy sinks or swims with the US. We agree that Texas is a massive economic asset to the US; if Texas secedes the US economy WILL collapse- it won’t be a matter of “will the US collapse decades down the road?” but a certain and immediate collapse as federal tax income is lost and interstate trade is disrupted. I have a laundry list of ways secession will wreck the Texas economy- interstate trade will be disrupted, the US will retaliate with a trade war, brain drain will occur as Texas takes time to get its house in order. Defense contractors have contracts with the US, meaning they will have to leave Texas to uphold their contracts, depriving Texas of its largest economic sector. Nothing about Heg collapse stops defense contractors from upholding their contracts. All of these impacts are immediate and they will cripple the Texas economy. Forget waiting around to see if deficit spending gets out of control decades down the road, secession will ruin the Texas economy long before the US economy collapses. Civil War Pro’s only defense is that it won’t occur; conceding that Texas will lose and that Civil War would tank the Texas economy. The magnitude of this impact outweighs all others as a Civil War would mean the destruction of Texas. Civil War is very likely given the massive economic and hegemonic interests in Texas. Historical and legal precedents all emphatically proclaim that the federal government has a right to forcibly preserve the Union and will do so if necessary; this makes it a justifiable war from the US perspective. This impact is immediate, high probability, and high magnitude; Civil War alone outweighs any risk of economy collapse decades down the road. Heg We can quibble about the extent to which US Heg stabilizes, but the dissolution of any world power would destabilize the international system. No other entity exists that could stabilize the globe in the wake of US collapse- NATO is propped up by the US and the EU is on the brink of economic collapse. I have pointed out many examples of how the US stabilizes the globe- from the Persian Gulf to the South China Sea. Global instability puts Texas at greater risk of war and destabilizes the global economy. Conclusion In evaluating the best interests of Texas, security comes first. The risk of Civil War and global instability put the lives of Texans at risk, and both would disrupt the Texas economy. Texas secession causes many serious, immediate impacts in the hope of avoiding a problem that is decades down the road and is being fixed as we speak. Texas’ best interest is served as part of the Union, working with the Union to solve the Union’s problem.	CON	990
990	Sde24f30f-A768a70ab	Resolved: Texas would best serve its interest by seceding from the Union	“‘Peaceable secession!’ Sir, your eyes and mine are never destined to see that miracle…I see as plainly as I see the sun in heaven- I see that disruption must produce such a war as I will not describe.” -Daniel Webster, 1850 Civil War: 1) Relying on chronologically distant historical trends to predict US reaction to secession might be “shaky” if it weren’t so consistent. At every point in US history where secession has come up, the federal response has been that states do not have the right to secede and the government will use force. The consistency carries through to the Obama response which clearly references the Civil War as the example of how to deal with secession. 2) The U.S. has been “tired of war” since Vietnam, yet the U.S. has been constantly engaged in warfare since WWII. In the last two years alone we have exercised military intervention in 6 different countries, including significant involvement in Libya [1]. The U.S. is currently using threat or war in Iran negotiations [2]. 3) Secession is rarely peaceful. The 1837 rebellion, military pressure from war of 1812, U.S. raids on Canadian British forts, and U.S. expansionism were all key in Canadian independence [3]. 4) U.S. has massive interests in preventing Texas secession: a) Texas v White says no right to secede- US will have to forcefully preserve Union to maintain rule of law. b) Cross apply all of Pro’s points to Texas’ economic strength, all my arguments that US needs Texas to maintain Hegemony, as incentives for the US to prevent secession. The US will crash and burn without Texas, ensuring that the US will do everything in its power to preserve the Union. 5) The reason “wealthy” countries haven’t engaged in warfare since WWII is because of U.S. Hegemony: a. Countries have nothing to gain by engaging in warfare because they do not have the ability to defeat the Hegemon and starting wars with neighbors will bring in Hegemonic intervention. b. It is rarely in wealthy nations best interest to fight each other because of the economic cost- war loses out in the cost/benefit analysis. In the case of Texas, the cost/benefits favor war. Hegemony: 1) A decline in Heg is disastrous for all, including Texas; global instability causes a rise in conflicts and a rise in terrorism. I even pointed out that the large Mexican border makes Texas especially prone to terrorist attacks. 2) No current power could become Hegemon: The UN, EU, and NATO are all alliances that lack the ability to act as a single cohesive force- the failure to impose sanctions on Syria demonstrates the inherent lack of resolve in the UN [4]. NATO is propped up by US funding and military capability. The US spends more on defense than the rest of the world combined- it is mathematically impossible for any group to become Hegemon [5]. 3) The stabilizing forces Pro cites- spreading of western values, NATO, globalization, are all directly linked to Hegemony. If Russia had won the Cold War, western values would not have spread. Globalization was fueled by US economic development, which excelled due to the stability provided by military dominance- see my next point. 4) The US has a massive capability to act as a stabilizing force- the Gulf War proves. Iraq attempted to invade Kuwait for strategic gain and the US responded by repelling Iraq and crippling Iraq militarily. The US preserved the Middle East balance of power while protecting Western economic interests by shielding Saudi Arabian oil fields from Iraqi power projection. 5) South China Sea proves US Heg is still relevant. US Heg currently balances Chinese interests and protects regional US allies. The US continues to strategically orient its Navy at the request of allies like the Philippines [6]. 6) Pro drops that Heg is key to fighting terrorism. The global reach of the US is crucial to collecting information on terrorists, launching precision attacks like the bin Laden raid, and tracking organizations like Al-Qaeda which transcend national borders. Economy: 1) Pro doesn’t dispute that if the US economy fails the global economy fails, nor that Texas secession will destroy the US economy. Even if debt is unsustainable, secession doesn’t solve the problem, it makes it inevitable. This means Texas has two choices: secede and guarantee economic destruction, or stay and work to save the Union. 2) Strong exports don’t change the fact that massive disruption of trade with the US would wreck the Texas economy. Exports are less than 15% of Texas GDP per Pro’s evidence, meaning 85% of the economy is vulnerable to a US trade war. 3) Extend my evidence that 80% of US refineries and 2/3 of US reserves are outside of Texas, meaning oil companies will side with the US. Pro’s evidence to the contrary is just a map of oil wells. Also extend that defense contractors will stay loyal to the US, meaning Texas will lose its biggest economic sector. 4) Oil exported from Texas to the US would be subject to standard tariffs, indeed all exports to the US would. This represents the introduction of a massive inefficiency on Texas’ economy. This is on top of protectionist trade policies resulting from a backlash against secession [7] 5) Pro ignores my argument that even if Texas can replace some government jobs people will follow the jobs to the US during the transition. Federal funding makes up 33% of the Texas budget- Texas will have to decide how much of this budget gap to make up, how to replace the gap, and how to allocate the money. This process will take time during which irreparable damage will be done to the economy. 6) Pro offers no evidence or argument about how or when the debt will result in an economic collapse. I have given evidence that carrying debt is often done in the private sector- note that entitlement spending is an investment in human capital; Medicaid ensures people are healthy enough to contribute to the economy. 7) The US is already implementing policies to obtain a manageable budget, cutting projected deficits by 2.4 trillion. The fiscal cliffs are also forcing hard decisions to be made to get the US on track [8]. Culture: Texas is less homogeneous than the US, with over 1/3 of the population being Hispanic and non-Hispanic whites being less than half [9]. This whole point is ridiculous. Pro offers no reason to care about cultural homogeneity and apparently wants to risk a Civil War over how many Blue Dog Democrats are in Texas. Ability to Secede: Pro concedes Texas would lose mobile infrastructure: this includes tanks, airplanes, computer systems, trucks, medical supplies, disaster response supplies. The loss of this would be devastating to Texas’ military and disaster preparedness. Econ of Scale: Go look at Pro’s failed state evidence. According to his source, ¾ of the world is at “warning” for being a failed state. Pro’s evidence suggests that geopolitics is much more critical to state stability. If economy of scale is so important, what’s with all those tiny failed African states and big successful Canada and Australia? The fact is the economies of India and China are doing quite well and both countries are rapidly modernizing [10]. Conclusion: Texas lives and dies with the Union; secession is suicide. [1] http://en.wikipedia.org... [2] http://www.israelhayom.com... [3] http://en.wikipedia.org... [4] http://articles.washingtonpost.com... [5] http://www.cbsnews.com... [6] http://en.wikipedia.org... [7] http://www.fas.org... [8] http://articles.latimes.com... [9] http://en.wikipedia.org... [10] http://econ.worldbank.org...	CON	991
991	Sde24f30f-Af978221b	Resolved: Texas would best serve its interest by seceding from the Union	"""No people and no part of a people shall be held against its will in a political association that it does not want""-Ludwig von Mises Rebuttal 1. Civil War 1) It is shaky to rely on past history, because CON is literally using one data point to set precedent, the American civil war of 1865. Hardly a “consistent” pattern. The US government might prefer for Texas to remain a part of the union, but it is incredibly shaky for them to engage in a civil war over it. 2) Our involvement in Libya was minimal. The main strength involved was the National Transitional Council. All the US did was engage in a few bombings. The scale of these wars is nothing compared to what a war between Texas and the US. If the US could engage in whatever war they wanted, they would’ve fought the Soviet Union during the cold war but they did not. 3) The Canadian independence was relatively peaceful. There have been plenty of peaceful movements of secession, as stated previously from African state’s independence, independence of Australia, and independence of nations from the USSR. It is hardly a “rare” occurrence and the independence of nations without war is now the rule, not the exception. 4) While the US does have a massive interest in preventing secession, the act of war far outweighs the benefits. CON also drops my argument of how one can get the American public and the military to support actions of killing Texans when so many Americans know and maintain friendships with these people. This is not the same as attacking a foreign country. 5) US hegemony has not been pivotal in maintaining peace between wealthy nations, since the Soviet Union was a superpower from WWII to 1991, yet wealthy nations did not fight one another and the US did not fight the USSR. 2. Hegemony 1) I have already demonstrated that US hegemony has not lead to stability, using North Korea as an example that CON drops. 2) The US is not providing any military assistant in Syria either so to blame it on UN failure is wrong. UN has made quite a difference in providing stability including creating international law, prosecuting war criminals, providing humanitarian aid to third world nations, and promoting human rights[1]. CON just asserts that the EU cannot act as a unified forced, without evidence. Furthermore, I have stated that hegemony has not been successful in stabilization so there’s no reason a hegemony force has to take over. 3) The idea that the US has been responsible for reducing terrorism is absurd. Terrorism attacks increase as more troops are sent into the Middle East[2]. Bombing innocent civilians does not exactly create a peaceful country that loves western values. Osama Bin Laden specifically stated that his reason for committing 9/11 was due to America’s presence in the Middle East. 3) Instead of lobbying for Congress for money and dealing with the bureaucracy of the border problems, Texans can directly deal with its problem. The US federal government can hardly be considered effective considering 11 million illegal immigrants are estimated to reside in the US[4]. Since Texas is right next to the problem, they understand it better then the federal government and could handle it better. 4) The US main concern is using the islands there for their own naval and military purposes. Is there any reason why this matters besides US-Chinese foreign relations? The dispute is mainly irrelevant, only exacerbated through US involvement. There’s no reason why the UN cannot resolve this dispute through its international courts. 5) The US failed to stabilize Iraq and Afghanistan, with both nations topping the failed state index as the 6th and 9th least stable nations on earth.[3] 3. Economy 1. It is not complex to figure out a taxation plan for those in Texas. They can simply use the same taxation program the old federal government used. 2. Stating that because 15% of the economy is based on exports, does not correspond to 85% of the Texan economy is dependent on trade with the US. Instead, most of the economy is locally based. Local shops, restaurants, schools, roads, and housing are all goods and services provided via the local economy. 3. The brain drain argument would only occur if Texas’s economy were to completely collapse, which I shown would not happen. People dislike moving due to family and friends ties and the expense of moving. 4. While companies might leave, the assets and people who know the information would not. Extent the analysis that they would still exist, just change in name. There are also plenty of companies that either only reside in Texas or exist mainly in Texas. 5. CON’s case on US hegemony and US companies moving contradict one another. Why would corporations move out of Texas if the US is no longer a hegemony? 6. Higher export costs of oil means cheaper oil for citizens residing in Texas. Cheap oil in Texas creates a huge boom to many economic sectors due to its huge value in industry. My Case Economy 1. Once the US economy collapses due to debt problems, then the US would feel the main effects of the collapse, while Texas would only absorb a fraction of the problem. During the global recession, there were plenty of nations that had positive growth levels. 2. Con must be kidding on how he does not understand how unsustainable debt is bad, when there’s empirical evidence of unemployment reaching 25% in European nations with debt-crisis and their problems are still unresolved. If the debt cannot be paid off, then higher taxations, inflation, or painful austerity measures must occur. Once companies first start out, they have to obtain huge levels of debt to obtain their capital. That debt remains, but falls over time. The US debt is increasing over time and is not a start-up nation. As stated previously, debt as a percentage of gdp would fall if it were being used for growth which CON drops. 3. Con’s own source states that “The evidence shows that the country is on a course of spending and debt accumulation that could lead to serious trouble not today or tomorrow but probably 10 to 20 years down the road.”. Getting rid of 2.4 trillion in deficit spending still leads to trillions in deficit spending in a decade. I have previously showed through the US GAO that by 2040, the debt is projected to be at 200% gdp-to-debt. Is Con also serious that entitelement spending are an investment in human capital when social security and medicare is given to seniors after they retire, in other words once they provide no productivity to the economy. This is a joke. Culture Texas has a lot of ethnicities. This does not correspond to a heterogeneous culture. Culture corresponds to geographical approximately, which CON drops. If one were born in Texas he/she would more likely value different things then if he/she were born in New England, regardless of ethnicity. Texas can more easily achieve actions that cater to the needs of themselves rather than be imprisoned by the federal government’s policies. Ability to Secede: Con concedes that immobile infrastructure would remain in the US. Economy of Scale Large Economy of scale is a sufficient condition for corruption, not a necessary condition for corruption. Australia and Canada are large landmasses. They do not have large populations. Canada’s population is 34 million and Australia’s population is 22 million. The US has a population 313 million, which is 9.2 times larger then Canada and 14.2 times larger than Australia. Africa is plagued with problems which cause its governments to be corrupt. There are diseconomy of scales issues and diverse political and cultural opinions that occur if the population is too large. Diseconomics of scale is an economically recognized concept, so the logic is sound[6]. Conclusion Texas is better off without the union. [1] http://tinyurl.com... [2] http://tinyurl.com... [3] http://tinyurl.com... [4] http://tinyurl.com... [5] http://tinyurl.com... [6] http://tinyurl.com..."	PRO	992
992	Sde24f30f-Af02e29fe	Resolved: Texas would best serve its interest by seceding from the Union	I thank my opponent for this debate. CON has provided weak evidence for a Civil War. Historical data is not good for modern times with quite a bit of technological and cultural changes. While there might be natives to foreign countries the US invades, they are of a minority. The majority of people know Texans. Furthermore, the US going to war to overthrow dictatorships can be justifiable. Going to war against a democratic nation, not so much. If the US invaded Texas, this would be the first time in over a century that the US would directly invade a democratic nation. The idea that US hegemony contributes to stability is also weak. CON even concedes that our ability to create stability is poor through stating that “it proves that some problems continue to be intractable. Hegemony isn’t a magic wand” My source shows that the US directly contributes to terrorist acts, they do not create stability. The sources used were the Heritage Foundation and the University of Chicago, hardly poor sources. While Con might think the Heritage could be bias, the Heritage foundation supports a stronger military, so if anything it should be bias towards more troops, not less troops in the Middle East. The UN will live on, and has been a greater force in the formation of internal law and human rights watch. Con’s whole argument rests on companies moving, yet if Texas marks the end of hegemony, there’s no reason why companies would support the US over Texas in the first place. The assets and infrastructure the companies obtain are mainly immobile. If it was easy to move these companies, they’d move to China where labor is cheaper. Yet it is very difficult to move companies, so they would remain or at the very least be sold off. If a company does not have the immobile infrastructure that comes with the mobile infrastructure, they aren’t going to keep the mobile ones. They’d sell it off since they’d have no use of it. CON states that global prices of oil would increase as a result of exporting tariff. Yet this does not take into consideration local prices. If Texas is not exporting oil, it’s using its own oil, which drives down prices. Countries in oil producing countries pay less than a dollar for oil, while the US pays way more for oil then them. The timeline for financial Armageddon is “decades” down the road, but more like a decade. Congress has shown itself quite incompetent to even pass a budget, never mind balance a budget. The “deficit cuts” that Obama cut were just cuts from the higher deficit spending down the road. In no way does the US come even close to balancing the budget. All budget proposals that have been introduced to balance the budget like “Paul Ryan’s Budget” have been shot down and labeled as “social Darwinism”. This debt is crippling and threatening and Texas needs to leave the union to avoid this collapse. It could be affected from it, but they’d still be a lot less affected then the US itself. While it is possible that Texas could become corrupt, there is no guarantee it will. However, with increasing government spending, and a congress divided, corruption is rising and inevitable in the federal government. Congress’s approval rating is only 14%; lower the cockroaches [1]. While Texas government policy might not be able to satisfy everyone, it can satisfy a lot more people than federal policy ever could and much less vulnerable to corrupt like the US government is. The time for Texas to secede is now. They have ports that would allow them to trade, and are a net-tax generator, not a net-tax drain which would allow the Texas government to use its funds to improve themselves and can do it better then the federal government could because Texan’s know better how to deal with their problems then the federal government could. America’s problems have been getting worse, not better. While the transition might cause some difficulty for Texas, they will more likely lead to prosperity then the US could.	PRO	993
993	Sde24f30f-Aa1e0794	Resolved: Texas would best serve its interest by seceding from the Union	Rebuttal: C1: Civil War CON provides examples of un-peaceful secessions, but ignores peaceful secessions. Canada and Australia peaceful secede from the British Empire. This occurred even after the “precedent” that colonies cannot secede without civil war, since the US had to fight a bloody war and India was unable to secede after rebellion. This means we can assume precedent is unimportant. Analyzing historical trends from more than a hundred years ago to make modern predictions is shaky grounds since modern society is different both technologically and culturally from the past. Modern society has two problems: a) Stronger anti-war sentiment US citizens have a stronger anti-war sentiment and do not want American soldiers to die. In a time where people are expected to live longer and have better lives, death is a greater loss. In the Iraq war, 4,422 American soldiers were killed[1]. While this might seem like a large number, this was over the course of a decade and previous wars had much higher casualities, such as WWII where the death toll was over 400,000[2]. However, despite the low death toll that Iraq caused on US soldiers, Americans still strongly opposed the war, with the majority now opposing it[3]. There’s no way that the American people would accept the killing of Texan civilians in the event that they secede. While killing those in foreign countries is one thing, it is another thing to kill Texans in which most Americans know many people from Texas. b) Unlikely for wealthy nations to engage in war with one another Not since WWII, have “wealthy” nations fought one another (Pre-WWII times, the world was way less wealthy then it is today). Nations recognize the devastating effects that this type of warfare would create, hence why the USSR and the US never engaged in direct warfare. The US has not engaged in warfare with nations like Iran or North Korea, two nations that are a bigger threat to the US and weaker nations then Texas would be which is a son With a strong defense contracting C2: Hegemony CON lists the harms the US would face If Texas decided to secede. However, this is irrelevant to the debate since the Resolution is about whether it would be in Texas’s best interest to secede, not the US’s best interest if they secede. CON is wrong on the idea that US hegemony is needed to keeping world security. The effectiveness of the US military is weak. Many unstable dictatorships like North Korea and China have nuclear weapons. Furthermore, the US has difficulty fighting weak nations like Vietnam so there’s no way we could expect the US to fight serious world security threats through strength alone. The spreading of western values, the UN, and the interdependency and interconnectivity of people and nations based on globalization has played a more critical role in maintaining peace then the US military ever has. The US is also not the only source of world security. NATO, the UN, and the European Union would still exist in a post-US hegemony world. Furthermore, cross-reference my previous argument on US’s unsustainable debt and it is unlikely that the US will maintain long-term hegemony. C-3 Economy: Cross-apply my previous analysis that a civil war would unlikely occur. Texas also has a strong exporting economy, with exports totaling $192 billion[8]. In the event that America engages in trade protectionism, Texas can rely on plenty of other nations for goods/services. It borders Mexico and is not landlocked, allowing trade to occur between other foreign nations. Trade protectionism against Texas would hurt the US more than it would hurt Texas, which would make the US unlikely to strongly engage in it. Programs like NASA would still exist if Texas were to secede. They would just be renamed and reorganized. The US government cannot take this infrastructure from Texas because it’s immobile. Plus most of the people with the skills to work would still be there, so there’s no reason why Texas just can’t create their own space program. Also considering that most oil production occurs in Texas[9], corporations that drill in Texas would favor Texas over the US. The US federal stimulus was a giant failure and did not help Texas’s economy at all. According, to the white house's own projection, the US did worse witht the stimulus in place[10]. Empirical evidence confirms that fiscal multipliers are non-existent in nations with high debt-to-gdp ratio[11]. However, Texas has a low debt-to-gdp ratio so it could create a fiscal stimulus program if needed. Texas also gives more in taxes then it receives. Taking money and one hand and putting it another does not benefit Texas. There’s no reason why Texans cannot just use their own funds to finance programs that were once part of the federal government or use that money to buy goods/services or make investments. My Case Economy: Pro seems to agree with my analysis of the problem of US’s debt places on the economy. His argument is that the economic effects of civil war would be worse. However, as I already explained, a civil war simply would not occur in a secession movement. Con’s analysis of debt is wrong. If the US debt was funding infrastructure and science, then that would not be unproblematic. However, science research only makes up $43.5 billion in funding[4]. Infrastructure spending only makes up $505 billion[5], including both federal, local, and state spending. The US budget is $3.54 trillion, with most of it going to medicare, Medicaid, social security, and the military[6]. If debt was truly used to funnel growth, then at steady state conditions they’d be a reduction in a gdp-to-debt ratio, not an increase. This is because any debt increase would be offset by gdp growth. We already have examples of the problems of government debt with the European-debt crisis, in which this crisis caused Greece’s and Spain’s unemployment rate to reach approximately 25%. Culture: While there is some source of cultural heterogeneity, the amount of cultural heterogeneity in Texas, is obviously less than that of the US, so the argument still stands. Texans are more united in culture based on geographical proximately and the passing of culture to children through church, upbringing, and school. While Democrats obviously exist in Texas, they are certainly more conservative than most Democrats and still instill Texan values. Two Texan congressmen are part of the “Blue Dog Coalition”[7] a caucus of Demcorats that identify themselves as conservatives to moderate Democrats. Ability to Secede: Extend argument. While mobile infrastructure that the federal government owns would be absorbed, immobile infrastructure cannot. How can the US federal government move a building? The massive economic asset that Texas holds while the US is in a debt crisis is the reason why Texas should secede. As the US grows deeper into debt, the federal government will try to take advantage of Texas’s economic assets to funnel its debt. Economics of scale/Population: China and India are riddled with problems. India and China are both listed as “warning” in the Failed State Index[12]. They also do poorly on the corruption perception index. The larger the organization, the easier it is to get away with corruption since there’s less accountability. Nations listed as “sustainable” have population levels similar to Texas[13]. While the US does not do terribly on the list, it is not the best. State governments help offset these problems, but states are becoming less relevant as federal power increases. This provides evidence that the problems of diseconomics of scale and large populations occur. [1]http://tinyurl.com... [2] http://tinyurl.com... [3] http://tinyurl.com... [4]http://tinyurl.com... [5]http://tinyurl.com... [6] http://tinyurl.com... [7]http://tinyurl.com... [8] http://tinyurl.com... [9]http://tinyurl.com... [10] http://tinyurl.com... [11]http://tinyurl.com... [12]http://tinyurl.com... [13]http://tinyurl.com...	PRO	994
994	Sde24f30f-A7d4cdebd	Resolved: Texas would best serve its interest by seceding from the Union	This is part of the SPinko Tournament, Round 2. Resolved: Texas would best serve its interest by seceding from the Union 1st round is terms/acceptance, final round is half length to encourage more closing-style type arguments. (This means three full length rounds and a half length round). 1) No restriction on argumentative strategy except for semantics and similiar abusive tactics. 2) Burden of Proof is shared* 3) New arguments in the final round must be ignored by the judge 4) R1 is for acceptance and clarifications. Rules and Definitions in R1 are binding. Substantively violating the R1 agreements will result in loss of both argument and conduct. 5) Spelling/Grammer and Conduct will NOT be voted on unless gross violation of either one. 6) Sources must be posted or linked in the debate round. Voting on Sources should be reserved for extreme discrepancy in quality of sources.	PRO	995
995	Saf28e840-Ab937e49d	The U.S. ought to guarantee Universal Healthcare to its citizenry	"A few observations: Pros argument really falls apart when applying it to his burden under the resolution--he lists problems in the current system but offers us no mechanism to repair these flaws; he presumes UHC will solve these issues, but really his advocacy amounts to ""health care is good, lack of health care is bad"". From where does it follow that a UHC system is the solution? I understand that my opponent doesn't want to defend a very specific system so the debate doesn't get into technicalities, but he needs to at least argue how a system of UHC would solve the problem. Government isn't the answer to everything, my opponent must prove that it is in this case. Case On principle? My opponent didn't rush to define what on principle meant--I argue that a fundamental principle of government is to act in it's citizens best interest, and if implementing UHC is contrary to that goal it ought not, on principle, be implemented. I. Worst possible time My opponent is advocating government run insurance at the absolute worst possible time. The US government is already reaching un-real levels of debt, inducing panic among the population and political gridlock that has crippled the US government. UHC would only increase the fiscal burden. Moreover the number of seniors (who need care the most) is currently rising[1] and the existing US safety net is on the verge of a complete meltdown. Worse still, while debt is ever increasing, the US credit horizon is looking increasingly gloomy. ForexLive reports[2] S&P's position on US credit: “U.S. sovereign credit risks, primarily political and fiscal, could build to the point of leading us to lower our ‘AA+’ long-term rating by 2014.”. S&P thinks there's about a 1-in 3 chance they'll have to downgrade the US credit rating even after the 2011 budget control act, and that probability will vastly increase if the government takes on a huge entitlement program while failing to maintain the ones it has. S&P explains that unless the US implements: “a credible, medium-term fiscal consolidation plan that represents significant (even if gradual) fiscal tightening”, they will probably downgrade it further. The impact of a downgrade is horrible. Economics professor Charles Rowley warns that if S&P or Moodys further downgrade U.S. credit ratings [3]: ""[This would] throw into question the privileged status of U.S. Treasury securities as a safe haven for global investors. Any significant flight from Treasuries would raise Treasury bond rates, with crippling consequences for the economy. A 1-percentage point increase in rates would raise Treasury debt payments by $1 trillion over the next decade, wiping out the benefits of all the budget cuts enacted by Congress last year."" The US government serves it's citizens best and secures their autonomy most by remaining the hegemon able to secure it's interests, but UHC will deter this. The perception is that the US is in a state of decline, as Mark Steyn argues in an article posted yesterday[4] ""The assumption that we are in the early stages of “the post-American world” is now shared by everyone from General Sisi to Vladimir Putin."" As the US and its allies continue to wallow in their debt and budget/trade deficits, China and Russia are becoming increasingly more aggressive and imperialistic. Much of Africa, the untapped gem of the world, is under Chinese economic hegemony[5]. The US faces the loss of it's position in the world, and consequently an inability to secure it's citizens interests abroad, if it does not tighten it's fiscal belt. The US's coercive power is just as much determined by its economic might as it is it's military muscle, and UHC will weaken the economy. Moreover even if these impacts are proven false by my opponent, the fact of gridlock remains. In order to pass UHC, Obama and Congressional democrats would have to sacrifice all the political capital they have. This means that sensible pieces of the democratic agenda such as tightening gun laws so that terrorists can't buy guns[6] and immigration reform are less likely to pass, along with other legislation that's vital to national objectives. To advocate such a massive change in such a tumultuous time is absurd. II. Empirical results I'll get more into this when addressing my opponents arguments, but experiences of UHC from other nations have been nothing short of disastrous. Waiting times for care are vast, in England 21% of curable lung cancer patients become incurable while waiting for health care[7]. In Canada, nearly 900,000 people are on the waiting list of care at any time[8]. People will use up all health care resources available since they do not have to pay for them; also in Canada[9]: ""Only half of ER patients are treated in a timely manner by national and international standards"". This is bad since ER patients usually need help immediately (compare the US, with a mean emergency room waiting time of 58 minutes[10] to Canada's mean time of four hours[11]). Since ambulances are free, the British use them as Taxis with 91% of ambulance visits being for non emergency purposes[12]. Moreover waiting lists for care in countries with UHC are incredibly corrupt, with the rich and influential often jumping places ahead of others in Japan[12] and Canada[13] where ""research reveals that cardiovascular surgery queues are routinely jumped by the famous and politically-connected"". Pro needs to provide some safeguards against these abuses or explain how the US wouldn't suffer from them. Until then, you negate. My opponent argues in the abstract, I argue actual results. Sources: 1. http://tinyurl.com... 2. http://tinyurl.com... 3. http://tinyurl.com... 4. http://tinyurl.com... 5. http://tinyurl.com... 6. http://tinyurl.com... 7. http://tinyurl.com... 8. http://tinyurl.com... 9. http://tinyurl.com... 10. http://tinyurl.com... 11. http://tinyurl.com... 12. http://tinyurl.com... 13. http://tinyurl.com..."	CON	996
996	Saf28e840-A79d945d1	The U.S. ought to guarantee Universal Healthcare to its citizenry	"I will be addressing Con""s remarks, and them emphasizing some key themes in the debate. SOLVENCY Firstly, as ought is a question about morality, and as morality doesn""t necessarily imply a discussion of the consequences, I maintain I do not need to prove solvency. I would also point out that we began this debate with an understanding that ""Pro does not have to pick a specific type of UHC to support, nor does it need to offer a policy to implement it."" However, if this argument does not convince you, I can still solve the problem. Here""s how: (1) Uninsurance is a grave problem; (2) UHC largely eliminates uninsurance (more so than Obamacare); (3) Conclusion: UHC solves for uninsurance and its attendant problems. This is a very clear train of logic. My opponent claims that asserting the need for insurance doesn""t solve. Yet, that is ultimately what the debate is about""is insurance necessary and moral. By asserting and demonstrating how insurance is necessary and useful, I am affirming the resolution. Finally, if insurance will eliminate the problems outlined in my initial statement, and its harms don""t very much outweigh those gains, that I have solved. CON""S TIMING ARGUMENT (a) Con doesn""t draw a direct link between UHC and economic hardship""her only rebuttal to this is that it is ""pretty obvious"" that UHC will hinder economic success. Yet, I find this assumption dubious, especially in light of the Murray and Thorpe evidence that shows the UHC will have a clear benefit to the economy. There is also a second reason to reject the Con""s argument. Because we""re not debating any specific form of UHC, the government, depending on the plan it may put together, could devise a means of funding it that would have little (if any) negative economic impact. (b) She says that implementing UHC will increase the likelihood of a credit down grade be a ""huge margin,"" but fails to explain what that margin is or why that increase is inevitable. If that margin means that the likelihood of a downgrade rises to 40%, then there is still a 60% chance that UHC will not result in the harms she mentions. In which case, we would have few harms, but many benefits through a reduction in uninsurance. This is a strong cost-benefit justification for the solvency and the utility of UHC. Ultimately, her assertion of a ""huge margin"" of increase is vague and ill-defined, and we cannot vote of such nebulous suppositions. As Con put it, there is ""no empirical evidence (and hence no way to weigh) the impact"" of such a vague, undefined threat. We shouldn""t sacrifice the clear benefits of UHC for a threat that isn""t even quantified. (c) Again, since we""re not talking about any particular form of UHC, it is unfair to say that UHC would necessarily fail in the U.S. Plus, there are other ways of coping with rising seniors""like raising retirement ages, etc. Ultimately, though, we""re discussing UHC not Medicare. (d) In fact, I did NOT drop her hegemony argument. This point was predicated on the notion that because UHC would harm our economy, we would be hampered in our efforts to have hegemony. So, if her economics arguments are fallacious, then her hegemony argument loses its footing and its supporting logic. Furthermore, I did note that Rowley never directly explained why UHC would deter/impede our attempts to attain hegemonic status. (e) The 3.8 million stat offered by my source was compiled by the Dept. of Health and Human Services in a meta-analysis of 178 different, independent studies of the healthcare field. And it is not my argument that entrepreneurship will ""save"" the economy, but merely that it is good for the economy. It prevents stagnation and promotes investment. As Con stated, ""it""s pretty obvious.""Furthermore, her 89% evidence did not actually respond to my argument, which was not about how many uninsured visited the emergency room. Rather, my argument was that 10.7% of visits were from non-emergencies, likely cause by a lack of insurance or underinsurance. See also misconstrues my argument about ER costs; regardless of why the ER is more expensive (which it is), its high prices have a detrimental impact on the uninsured, who are often forced to go to the ER rather than another physician. Furthermore, the Con accuses me of providing a lack of methodology, when the sum total of her source""s methodology regarding ER costs is citing: ""A growing body of research."" CON""S EMPIRICS ARGUMENT (a) I do not drop the Con""s statistics""I explain why they can be set aside or why they are incorrect. I offer statistics that actually contradict what the Con argues (e.g. the WHO evidence.) I explain that she only cites a handful of examples, which cannot speak to UHC as a whole; the results of 3 or 4 nations do not necessarily characterize the scores of UHC programs around the globe. She claims the U.S. has the highest survival rate, but I addressed this in Round Three when I stated, ""My opponent then claims that the U.S. has better care, and extrapolates from that that UHC delivers bad outcomes because it delivers poor care for ""most diseases."" Her own source states that this is a comparison of ""specific diseases."" In fact, she only mentions 4 diseases, which is hardly ""most."" Furthermore, her own Cato source states, ""although the U.S. health care system can provide the world""s highest quality of care, that quality is often uneven. The Institute of Medicine estimates that some 44,000 and 90,000 annual deaths are due to medical errors, while a study in The New England Journal of Medicine suggests that only a little more than half of American hospital patients receive the clinical standard of care."" Also, the uninsured wait 1.5x longer for care (I stated this in round two,) beating back her wait times argument because wait times either way would be problematic, and they receive worse care. (b) Again, the U.S. system could easily implement a more easily maintained system of UHC than Canada, particularly as we""re not talking about any particular form of UHC. Furthermore, many other UHC nations have, like Germany, as I noted earlier in the debate, have successful systems the U.S. could model. (c) Care ""rationing"" does not occur in all forms of UHC. Canada is a flawed example, and care does happen in UHC. She says that people receive not care because the rich skip ahead. This really is warranted, especially insofar as ""wait times"" do not mean ""no care."" The rich will abuse either system, and as yet, she has offered no evidence as to why that abuse will be more egregious in the Pro world than in the Con world. Finally, there are severe wait times in the U.S. too: ""The uninsured are 3-4 times more likely than those with insurance to report problems getting needed medical care, even for serious conditions. In one study, more than half of the uninsured postponed needed medical care due to financial concerns, while over one third went without a physician-recommended medical test or treatment due to financial concerns."" (Kao-ping and Casoy) (D) I explained how neither Obamacare nor lower drug prices solved. In which case, there""s not solvency on the Con side either, and if the burden is shared, she should have some level of solvency. I didn""t explain why people should have to pay for others because that is not necessarily going to happen on the Pro side. I don""t have to defend a specific form of UHC, and thus, I don""t have to offer a means of funding it either, as each system is funded differently. MY CASE Ultimately, my opponent never rebuts that actual evidence I provide as to the added costs of uninsurance. She just offers some competing statistics that fail to address the specific point I raised. Thus, those points can be extended across the flow. Furthermore, the source she cites is largely specific to Sweden, and what goes on in one nation is not necessarily characteristic of what goes on in most. And, while the U.S. may have some high survival rates among those who are treated, the evidence I provided shows how many are untreated or seek treatment to late due to a lack of insurance. She says that the failures of Obamacare are unverifiable, yet, the CBO is a highly reliable source that is non-partisan and has a huge amount of information to draw on. It seems far more reliable, therefore, than pro-conservative LocunTenens.com. If most doctors, as you can see if you pull the actual survey report from their social media pages, southern doctors were polled slightly more. That demographic is likely to skew the results = methodological flaw. Furthermore, Con literally provides no warrant at all as to why most people would choose to be uninsured under Obamacare. Con drops my points about the need to eliminate the emotional suffering of the uninsured. Con drops the additional information I offered to support the Thorpe study. Con also never addressed the Murray evidence. Con drops my turn of her Cato evidence, showing how it could bolster the pro position. REASONS TO VOTE PRO (1) Con drops my analysis of Germany""s healthcare system (round two), in which reforms were made to stabilize it. The wait times there are small, and it""s economically viable. This illustrates that UHC doesn""t necessarily have to entail the economic harms she forecasts. Germany represents the possibility of success. (2) Con""s economic analysis, particular that of the ill-defined risk of a credit downgrade that she cannot link directly with a warrant to UHC, fails to show undue risk of economic harm through UHC. Furthermore, many of her arguments only rely on a few examples. Just because 3 or 4 nations have some issues, that does not mean that UHC, which is practiced in dozens of nations, is bad. (2) UHC is economically beneficial. The dropped Thorpe and Murray analysis shows, clearly and with solid methodology, how UHC could save up to 1.1 trillion dollars, and would contribute to lower absenteeism, etc. (3) Con cannot solve. Obamacare would only reduce uninsurance rates by a measly 40%. Even with lowered drug costs, this is not enough (as my earlier analysis shows.) (4) I do solve""though I don""t need to. By virtually eliminating uninsurance and its incumbent harms (bankruptcy, emotional distress, communicable disease, 25% greater likelihood of mortality, etc.), I do solve for the problem posed within the resolution. Con, thank you for an amazing, polite, and high-quality debate!"	PRO	997
997	Saf28e840-A597a6720	The U.S. ought to guarantee Universal Healthcare to its citizenry	"I’ll go over major issues in the round, pointing out why I’ve won them. -Solvency- Pro argues that morality doesn’t necessitate consequences, however he doesn’t offer any other kind of moral system. He contends that he didn’t have to provide a specific system, which is why my criticisms were about UHC in general rather than, say, just the UKs’s system. UHC solves the issue of uninsurance in name only, as you can see from my case it leads to worse outcomes, death, delay, and corruption, which obviously isn’t moral.—the problem is not uninsurance in itself, but a lack of medical care which is a problem that will only increase under UHC. It’s nonsensical that the US should offer its citizens a system that fails. -Obligations- Throughout the debate, I repeatedly asked Pro to explain why people are obligated to provide others with insurance, with no response. You can vote Con right here as this pretty much takes out Pros arguments. -Survival rates- Pro makes no serious response except to state that the uninsured get less care. The problem is, even with the high amount of uninsured people in the US the US still has significantly higher survival rates in critical diseases than nations with UHC. Check out the numbers and you’ll see that the 15% difference between US and UK survival rates for Cancer alone, for example, amount to around 90k people, far outweighing any impact Pro brings up, not counting other diseases the US leads in. The sheer amount of waste in UHC systems, and the shortages of doctors that will occur in the US with UHC lead to waiting lists, causing death. Remember that in the UK 21% of curable lung cancer patients become incurable while waiting for care. Pro tries to argue that the US system is riddled with medical errors, but without a comparison to nations with UHC this is entirely irrelevant in the round. Survival rates are the best way to judge the quality of care in a system since they are actual measures of the goals of the system—to deliver care. Pro says that I only mentioned 4 diseases, but these are among the leading causes of death and thus the most likely for governments to collect stats about, moreover cancer alone outweighs everything Pro has argued. Pro drops my arguments for why the WHO evidence is completely bunk. -Obamacare- Pro only argues that Obamacare doesn’t solve because it doesn’t insure everybody. The problem is, since Obamacare mandates that everyone buy insurance or pay a tax, vastly lessens the financial burden of doing so, and has more companies providing insurance via the private market. While this doesn’t insure everyone, you can see pretty clearly from this debate that insurance is no guarantee of care in countries with UHC. Pro argues I don’t explain why people uninsured under Obamacare lack it by choice but Obamacare REQUIRES people to purchase medical insurance and makes it affordable. The status quo is solving the issue of health care. -Costs- Pro argues that UHC will be cheaper. Nevermind the fact that this is empirically falsified by the vast costs of UHC systems bankrupting other countries, this is contradicted by my logic that was completely dropped about how people will waste medical care since it’s free (refer also to the evidence I gave in the UK as). I’m the only one with a verifiable study, which showed that a UHC system in the US based on the Swedish model would cost the average taxpayer $17,200. Pro argues that this is only one system, which is true, but it’s a cop out for Pro to just say “oh actually my system wouldn’t do that” without explaining what his would do. If it’s fair for Pro to not defend any specific system, it’s fair for me to level my criticisms based upon all UHC systems. Pro argues the German system is economically good, however according to WSJ[1] Germans pay 15% of their income for their system that is ""on the brink of financial shortfall"". Even Pros model system can't be properly funded. Moreover Pro provides no logic what so ever for why UHC would be cheaper. His only card argues it would be cheaper assuming: “significant systemic changes including administrative simplification, computerized physician order entry, an automated patient safety/error reporting system, reduction in inappropriate clinical practice variation, and controls of provider payments and premiums”. Face it, this isn’t going to happen and Pro hasn’t proven it will. Pros only economic impacts come from people leaving their jobs where they’re experienced and trying to start new businesses, and Pro doesn’t give you any dollar amounts of revenue that this will generate. It’s literally impossible to weigh. It’s also unfair for Pro to keep citing evidence without linking it in round for review—compare this to my 30 external sources. Thus the cost argument flows clearly to Con. From this you have increased costs of care with lower quality of care. Remember that Canadians desperate for care come to the US. My credit and heg argument stands as well. There’s no way to predict the future, but having the US acting in the exact opposite manner that S&P suggests is no way for credit success. Even if you buy his arguments that UHC is good, the risks are too high right now. -Doctor shortages- Pro never properly responds to the fact that 20% of doctors would quit if we implemented UHC, only arguing that slightly more southern doctors were polled. This however makes sense in a random sample as the south is by far the most populace region[2]. Experiences from countries with UHC also confirm the fact that doctors would quit, creating even more waiting lists. -Rationed care- Pro never provides evidence contrary to the waiting lists that occur in countries with UHC, along with the courruption that happens on these lists, and the deaths that occur while waiting for care. You never see Americans going to Canada for care, you see the opposite because a private sector solution to healthcare is clearly superior. Vote Con. 1. http://tinyurl.com...; 2. http://tinyurl.com..."	CON	998
998	S40d0b8cb-A14e7480	Resolved: The USFG should replace its welfare program with a Negative Income Tax	"I thank my opponent for the challenge and wish him good luck in this debate. Contention 1: Freedom of Choice For a better explination of the NIT (Negitive Income Tax) is shown above where the simple equation of (Income*0.25)-$10,000 to reveal what the family would owe in taxes each year. For this to come out we can see that the average income in the US is actually $51,939 [1]. This would show and disprove that a great deal of Americans would be receiving this kind of income, but it would still have massive affects on the US financial institute. The United States was founded on the aspect of Democracy and a key aspect of that is the ability to vote. The ability to vote with your money is key as it helps generate economic profits and helps to tell producers what the consumers want and these things are made as a response. A huge problem with Welfare is several of the government programs with it. One of which is SNAP, or more commonly known as Food Stamps. The issue behind SNAP is that it distorts the market by forcing those who recieve them to purchase only healthy foods even though there's a demand for junk foods and other items that are not permitted under SNAP [2]. This forces the market to have to move away from its true equalibrium as under the normal market without SNAP the Demand Curve would shift outwards, but under the status quo, Equalibrium has not been met and there is a market ineffiecency due to the government intervention. NIT would eliminate Food stamps as people would be able to spend their money on whatever they please. This would increase market effiecency as they would buy anything they want and many things they would have been unable to buy under the status quo. Doing this would allow the market to effectively be able to communicate prices and in doing this, people would become more informed as to what to buy and what not to buy based on the increase on prices that would not have occured under the status quo. The reasonsing is that the lack of demand would mean that the product for each set of production would have been bellow what it should have been and the new and actual demand would force these producers to increase production to the market Equilibrium which it should have been. This would cause a rise in prices which would make consumers go to other products and the cycle of increased demand and Equilibrium in the market would persist. Another baffle in the system of welfare has been that of Section 8 Housing. The system started off with good intention, but has began to degrade as waiting lists became longer and the Neighborhoods that they were moved into became poorer and poorer and filled with more and more violence [3]. This has become extremely problematic as people under this program are suppose to be moving away from this. The Bureau of Justice has reported that this poverty in these areas has doubled the crime rates as areas where there is a Medium or rich neighborhood [4]. NIT has been shown to help increase migratory rates as it was shown in the Seattle-Denver Expirament that this rate was 50% higher than normal cities [5]. This has helped increase people moving into better neighborhoods which has not only made them safer, but has created a better living envirnment for them. Contention 2: Welfare Trap Over the years, welfare has been gathering more and more people ensnared in the welfare trap as many found it better to not work and stay in poverty. Much like the ""Welfare Queen"" who recieves over 1 grand a month on welfare people do not find it reasonable to get off welfare once they begin to recieve benefits. Now we know that not everyone on welfare is as lucky as her nor in the same sitaution. The DoHHH has reported as of 2011, that 23% of the US was on welfare which is the highest that they have ever recorded [6]. Mathematically, a single person on welfare can get up to $1,400 a year while a family of 4 can get $16,800 [7]. Both of these are under the poverty line, but people are still finding ways to survive under this prgram. When people begin to work, they loose their benefits and the only jobs that may take them is those for unskilled labor which might not even equivalate up past their benefit levels which harms the average person on welfare, so they elect not to go and find a job as it would decrease their income. NIT provides an incentive to work while they may still recieve benefits from the government. While on comparrison, at no income, they would recieve $10,000 vs. welfare's $16,800, assuming it's a family of 4, but as the work increases, the NIT stays and they earn additional income while they would normally lose welfare. We could see, using the Phillip's Curve, we can see that by reducing unemployment under this plan it would raise inflation [8]. Normally people would object to this, but we do have to realize that the Federal Reserve is currently trying to get inflation rates back to their normal rates as they are way below expectations as they are only 1.1% [9]. By instigating NIT, more people will have more money and this would increase the amount of money available in the market and people would create more jobs to increase production, effectively reducing employment, creating an endless loop. Under the status quo, many minorities are well under much of the white populace in income. According to a Pew Research on income inequality it has shown that not only is the gap between white and minority income is widening, but the average minority family has an income that is under the average Family 4 welfare that I had brought up earlier [10]. Under the NIT system, the medium Affrican-American family would recieve $7,250 while the Hispanic-American family would recieve $6,575. Both of which would help these families out of Poverty. This is a key thing and would be doing more to help in the ""War on Poverty"" than the program we currently have. This would help move these minorities out of poverty and begin to create equality in a way as it will help better the US. Sources 1. (http://tinyurl.com...) 2. (http://tinyurl.com...) 3. (http://tinyurl.com...) 4. (http://tinyurl.com...) 5. ( http://tinyurl.com...) 6. (http://tinyurl.com...) 7. (http://tinyurl.com...) 8. (http://tinyurl.com...) 9. (http://tinyurl.com...) 10. (http://tinyurl.com...)"	PRO	999
999	S40d0b8cb-A69d64ff7	Resolved: The USFG should replace its welfare program with a Negative Income Tax	"This is a part of famousdebater's tournament. The resolution is ""The United States Federal Government should replace its welfare program with a Negative Income Tax."" -Pro argues that the United States Federal Government should replace its welfare program with a Negative Income Tax -Con argues that the United States Federal Government should not replace its welfare program with a Negative Income Tax Rules... Round 1: -Con gives definitions and sets up debate -Pro provides opening argument Round 2: -Con gives opening argument and refutes Pro's Case -Pro refutes Con's Case (feel free to address rebuttals as well) Round 3: -Con responds to what Pro argued -Pro responds to what Con argued Round 4: -Both debaters conclude their arguments and finish responding to what each other wrote. Definitions: United States Federal Government (USFG)-Government established by the Constitution of the United States (http://definitions.uslegal.com...). Should-""used to indicate obligation, duty, or correctness, typically when criticizing someone's actions"" (https://www.google.com...). Welfare-""Welfare is a government program which provides financial aid to individuals or groups who cannot support themselves"" (https://www.google.com...). Negative Income Tax-""a system of income subsidy through which persons having less than a certain annual income receive money from the government rather than pay taxes to it"" (http://www.dictionary.com...)."	CON	1000
