	id	conclusion	premises	stance	rank
0	Seed3e468-A174d3bf9	Poverty means more crime	Does poverty cause crime, or does crime cause poverty? Poverty does not in all cases create crime. Bhutan is a poor country but the state department reports “There is relatively little crime” (1). When there is crime skilled people are more likely to emigrate and trust relationships are destroyed making businesses risk averse. At the same time outside businesses won’t invest in the country and neither will individuals because they fear they won’t get their money back. Finally crime almost invariably means corruption which undermines state institutions, trust in the state and ultimately democracy (2). Crime therefore leads to poverty more than the other way around. Neither does poverty have much to do with armed anti-government movements, terrorists or militia. Terrorism is an inherently a political struggle. Almost every major terrorist organization that exists has emerged from a conflict revolving around the subject of sovereignty and defending of their culture. Al Qaeda was created after the soviet invasion of Afghanistan and ETA fights for the independence of the Basque county so groups in Africa are ethically or religiously based. The needs and desires of the poorest are much more short-sighted, such as having enough to eat and somewhere to sleep. They would much rather stability. A 2007 study by economist Alan B. Krueger found that terrorists were less likely to come from an impoverished background (28% vs. 33%) and more likely to have at least a high-school education (47% vs. 38%). Another analysis found only 16% of Palestinian terrorists came from impoverished families, vs. 30% of male Palestinians, and over 60% had gone beyond high school, vs. 15% of the populace.(3) Moreover a rebellion, even if it involves potential financial gain, is not a good long term prospect. In the long term the government tends to win. For example with FARC in Columbia a security build-up over the past decade has reduced the rebels from 18,000 fighters at their peak to about 10,000 today (4) The idea of fighting a war against an army which is bigger, better funded and better equipped isn’t exactly thrilling. (1) U.S. Department of State, ‘Bhutan’, travel.state.gov, 2013, http://travel.state.gov/travel/cis_pa_tw/cis/cis_1068.html (2) United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, Crime and Development in Africa’, gsdrc, 2005, http://www.gsdrc.org/go/display/document/legacyid/1592 (3) Levitt, Steven D.; Dubner, Stephen J. , Superfreakonomics: global cooling, patriotic prostitutes, and why suicide bombers should buy life insurance, (William Morrow 2009) (4) “To the edge and back”, The Economist, 31 August 2013, http://www.economist.com/news/americas/21584384-hiccup-serves-confirm-government-and-farc-are-making-progress-edge-and	CON	1
1	S117fcf66-A3177721d	The statistics about poverty and crime show correlation, not causation.	While it is true that crime is correlated with people coming from poorer socio-economic backgrounds this does not in itself prove that poverty itself is the cause of crime. A lack of education or bad parenting might be equally, if not more convincing explanations for both phenomena. The causation may even be reversed, with those who indulge in violent behaviour and who seek illegal short-cuts to success rather than being prepared to hold down a steady job being more likely to end up poor. For example, recent studies have found that street-level drug dealers make less than the minimum wage.[1] So poverty is not a cause of crime in itself, but might merely be associated with other factors which cause it. In order to tackle crime, therefore, we don’t need to eradicate poverty, but improve people’s internalization of social norms through law enforcement and education. [1] Levitt, Steven D. and Sudhir Alladi Venkatesh, ‘An Economic Analysis of a Drug-Selling Gang's Finances’, The National Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No. 6592, (1998). 	PRO	2
2	Seed3e468-A296e16d1	Poverty means more crime	Despite many problems that Africa has to face, one of the biggest is its extreme poverty. Currently more than 48.5% of the population of Sub-Saharan Africa lives on less than 1.25 dollars a day (1). As a result of this poverty people’s security is being threatened on two main levels. On the first level of analysis, poverty can lead to crime. Poverty can create desperation to provide for family or yourself. As poverty is widespread in Africa, there are many people who are willing to steal, threaten, abduct or kill someone, in order to have something to eat. At 17.4 per 100,000 citizens, more than double the world average, Africa has the highest homicide rate among all regions of the world.(2) The other side of this is that a poor state can’t provide the level of policing that richer states can, a people in poverty usually results in a poor government. This in turn means that the police force is small, badly trained and underfunded so not fit for preventing crime. On the second level of analysis, desperate people are much easier to manipulate. This makes them easy targets for military groups in Africa who are searching for members to fight for their causes. It is not coincidental that we have so many militias and juntas in Africa, such as Somali Pirates, AQAP, AQIM, Al-Shabab, Touareg( Mali), Boko Haram(Nigeria), M23 and dozens of others. The militias offer those in poverty what they need most, food, shelter, and protection in return for their “services”. Poverty provides an additional benefit for these groups due to the stark difference between potential reward, such as from piracy or winning control of mines, and a normal income. As with the drugs trade the lure of the fast buck can be used to encourage risk-taking. In conclusion, poverty both enables crime and encourages militia groups. (1)    The World Bank, ‘Poverty’, data.worldbank.org, 2013, http://data.worldbank.org/topic/poverty (2)    Me, Angela, et al., ‘2011 Global Study on Homicide trends, contexts, data’, United Nations Office on Drugs and Crimes, 2011, http://www.unodc.org/documents/data-and-analysis/statistics/Homicide/Globa_study_on_homicide_2011_web.pdf	PRO	3
3	Seed3e468-A1211fe39	Poverty creates a vicious circle	Unfortunately, there is a vicious circle, caused by poverty that many poor countries find themselves in. A poor country also means a poor, ill-funded government. Such an institution is either unhelpful in preventing poverty or a road block to poverty alleviation. A poor population is also unfortunately more likely to lead to an autocratic government. This phenomenon can be shown by looking at decolonisation. Poor countries when decolonised, even if they initially had democratic aspirations quickly fell to dictatorship. There are very few exceptions such as India that have managed to continually maintain a democratic government while poor. Wealthy countries when decolonised are much more likely to become democracies and once poor autocracies become rich the pressure for democratisation usually becomes unstoppable so countries like South Korea democratised as they became wealthy. There might be considered to be a wealth threshold about which states will become democracies.(1) The reason why poverty is likely to lead to dictatorship is simple; a lack of an educated, effective civil service. When the government is very small it can’t effectively control the whole country or ensure accountability. The result, especially when civil servants are poorly paid is corruption and an opening for the army, or any populist who appears to offer a solution to take power. Once dictatorship occurs it can usually be maintained by force until the population is educated and connected enough to engage in a democratic revolution. There is then a free pass for those in power to exploit their position through corruption. Many dictators, including in Africa have become very rich indeed. Mohammed Suharto, Ferdinand Marcos and Mobutu Sese Seko( the former dictators of Indonesia, the Philippines, and DR Congo)  extorted up to $50bn (£28bn) from their impoverished people (2). A vicious cycle is created whereby the government needs money, so corruption and extortion are rampant. Those in power are more concerned with their own wealth than the people which makes the government poorer and less efficient so providing more incentive to resort to illicit means of funding. (1)    Cois, Carles; and Stokes, Susan C., ‘Endogenous Democratization’, The University of Chicago, 3 June 2003, http://www.researchmethods.org/boix-stokes.pdf (2)    Denny, Charlotte, ‘Suharto, Marcos and Mobutu head corruption table with $50bn scams’, The Guardian, 26 March 2004 http://www.theguardian.com/world/2004/mar/26/indonesia.philippines	PRO	4
4	S3be9f012-A3b86959d	The USFG should ensure the welfare of families living in poverty	I am PRO in this debate; I will be arguing that the topic above is true. This round will be for definitions, I will begin my argument in round 2. :: DEFINITIONS :: D1: USFG -The USFG is the United States Federal Government D2: Should -Ought. This simply means that it is the correct course of action. This is not a moral issue, it is an economic and social issue. D3: Ensure the welfare -To ensure someone's welfare will mean to make sure that person can afford basic necessities - a healthy diet and a place to live. If the person is having trouble affording these things, the government should make sure that person can get by. D4: Families living in poverty -I am talking about people living at or below the official US Census Bureau's poverty line, which is different depending on where you live and how many people are in a family. An obvious note - this refers specifically to families in America. ::ADDITIONAL COMMENTS:: If my opponent has a problem with these definitions, he or she can feel free to offer new ones in R1, which I will either accept or show to be inferior to my definitions. I ask that my opponent does not make arguments in R1, either. It would be very difficult to, anyway, since I have not yet made my case. Thank you.	PRO	5
5	Seed3e468-A9c4a10cb	poverty is the most important security issue facing Africa	Poverty creates a vicious circle	PRO	6
6	Seed3e468-A76449b6	poverty is the most important security issue facing Africa	Poverty means more crime	PRO	7
7	S3be9f012-A1c22274c	The USFG should ensure the welfare of families living in poverty	"D1: accepted, nothing but a mere technicality it seems to be D2: accepted that this isn't a moral issue. accepted that it is on basis of economics. but I do have a problem with the social aspect, since that usually involves morality. it's fine by me to leave it in the definition, but if morality is involved when being called upon, the fact that this isn't a moral issue should prevail D3: I interpret this as the government giving the things mentioned, but nothing more (so it isn't about increasing the targeted group's welfare, but assuring certain needs are fulfilled). if this should have been interpreted in a different matter, please elaborate. D4: to prevent any mistakes, I'd like to ask to post the definition. although I believe it isn't an essential part of the discussion, since morality isn't involved and there is no objective definition of poverty (any official definition being artificial). with this in mind, a general 'definition' of poverty should work (I won't try to deny any existence of poverty) Furthermore: When you make your case, I'd like to see clearly what you see as parameters to measure the effect of USFG action. (or the lack of it) Also, I'm fine with definitions being used to make sure we know what we're talking about, but I want to point out that I'm strongly opposed to combating with definitions themselves, the debate itself should be about the ideas, the positions, not about nitpicking dictionary definitions. I also hope this won't be a ""find the loophole""-debate, since those are a waste of time. debating should be about clashing ideas, not about putting sophist techniques into practice. This being said, I'm looking forward to the case of the Pro side. I also want to point out that it can take long before I post an argument, I'll try to reply swiftly, if possible."	CON	8
8	Seed3e468-Ad045ba4c	Poverty creates a vicious circle	Poverty may have something to do with countries becoming dictatorships but little. That it is about the efficiency of government is much more credible, this is partially why India, with a large native civil service at independence is one of the exceptions. In practice the reason here is that these nations were subject to being downtrodden through colonialism. There was little opportunity provided to create native institutions so any cobbled together rapidly at independence collapsed. Many of the countries that were poor at independence are still poor now, yet the story of Africa is no longer one of constant violent dictatorship but increasingly one of stable democracies with reasonably fair elections. The number of democracies in Africa has increased from three in 1989 to 24 in 2008.(1) This transition then benefits the economy. An analysis by The Economist finds that over the ten years to 2010, six of the world's ten fastest-growing economies were in sub-Saharan Africa.(2) The Arab Spring meanwhile demonstrates that the population in poor countries can be organised enough to oust authoritarian leaders through large scale protest. Since they are the ones who suffer from corruption there is no inherent reason why poorer peoples should be more likely to submit to a dictatorship. (1)    Freedom House, ‘Electoral Democracies in Sub-Saharan Africa’, African Election Database, accessed 22 November 2013, http://africanelections.tripod.com/electoral_democracies.html (2)    Graphic detail, ‘Africa's impressive growth’, The Economist, 6 January 2011, http://www.economist.com/blogs/dailychart/2011/01/daily_chart	CON	9
9	S3be9f012-A27922c88	The USFG should ensure the welfare of families living in poverty	"OBSERVATIONS I won't make a huge point out of it, but I still feel the need to remark that a tax system is an inherent part of welfare programs. How to obtain the funds for a program can have a significant effect. Since taxation also gives very important incentives. But like I said, I have no intent in tying you up to this constantly, since it would need a separate debate. P1: I contend that crime is a problem. I have certain doubts on the issue of crime being related to poverty, but I'll let my opponent have it, since it isn't the main issue. P2: My opponent makes a grave mistake here, turning around cause and consequence. People aren't unproductive because they're poor, they're poor because they are unproductive. To support this claim, 2 notes, linked to each other: 1. An employer can never pay an employee more than the worth he produces. The reason for this is that if the employer would pay more than what the employee produces, he wouldn't make a profit any longer, but a loss. First of all it is the goal of almost all employers to make a profit, second, a company simply can't keep operating for long when they suffer losses. 2. Taking point 1 into account, if people would be unproductive because they're poor, the poor would be totally unable to get rid of the living situation defined as poor. Since they can't earn more than they produce, they can't get out of the 'poor' category and hence can't get more productive. It is quite clear that this totally isn't the case, poor people are able to make a better living over time. (for this, I'd like to refer to statistical claims by T. Sowell, who pointed out that almost nobody stays all his life - in fact not even a decade - in the same income brackets) So hereby I state that people are poor because they are unproductive. (the contrary of what my opponent claimed) P3: I oppose this claim, my opponent just stated this by fiat. While there certainly will be people who fit into the description, there is nowhere any indication whatsoever that we're not talking about a minuscule group which wouldn't be representative enough to take into account. One could argue that the second form exists, cause they have a direct disadvantage since they pay for it. But if you opt to argue the second form this way, it would make the tax system a relevant part of the whole plan (especially since Pro claims that he won't cause the second type of resentment), but he wanted to stay clear of it. So either tax system gets involved, cause it would become relevant or my opponent has to support his claim (for the second type of resentment) with a different reasoning. SOLUTION/PLAN (of the Pro side) I take note of this plan and I suppose Pro will defend this plan and the criticism I'll offer concerning that plan. Since rounds are limited, I'll elaborate two cases against it in 1 round. If the proposing side wants his plan to be passed, it is only fair to expect him to refute both ways of thought in a decent manner. S1: This plan actually rewards having a lower income. Whether your personal input is 760 a month or 800 a month. So as long as you can't obtain an income that is more than the minimum wage, you're better off doing as little working effort as possible. (as long as you're entitled to the services mentioned in your plan, naturally) Second, there is moral hazard (the risk that they spend the money on other things than agreed on), especially since the following-up happens only 4-6 times a year, numerous expenses can be hard to check. Third, the whole is subject to personal input and fluctuations. People do have different preferences, by default they're the best judges themselves on how it's best to spend their money to obtain maximal 'utility' (satisfaction). Also, different advisers will give different advice, so there is no equal treatment. Fourth, people willing to deny themselves more than the default, risk getting punished by the way this system works. For example the food. If a person holds less value to his food and hence buys the cheaper products, if this allows the person to stay within his budget, he doesn't get the financial support. Furthermore, if the person spends the saved money on something he does value a lot, but isn't part of the necessities (eg: cigarettes), the person gets punished for it. S2: Limitations are quite artificial, nothing either of us can do about that. I could go argue for different terms, but I wouldn't know on what basis (since there isn't much basis for such a debate right now), so I'll just leave this be. The essential part of S2 is that it includes limits of use. S3: This assumes that people don't eat healthy because they don't know how to. However, the media communicates quite regularly on the problems of certain foods and the better alternatives for it. Also, the nutritious values are almost always communicated by the package. (especially the 'not so healthy' foods, but that is a personal impression) H1: The control on their budget can prove an incentive to steal/commit crimes. Since they aren't free to use their own official resources the way they like, they can only obtain certain goods with money that the control doesn't know of, crime can prove the way out to that money. Besides that, it gives a clear incentive towards moonlighting, since the more people earn in this system, the less support they get and it is a 1:1 relation, so there is no net gain for them at all. H2: Again the assumption is made that people actually want to eat healthier but aren't able to do so for a reason (2 mentioned by my opponent: lack of money, lack of knowledge). It may very well be that they simply don't want the healthier food. So either they won't eat healthier because of the plan, or if you force them to, the loss of liberty over ones own live can lead to unhappiness, which may lead just as well to reduced productivity. ""The cost of losing your job is bigger"" this statement appears incompatible with H3 where actually a closing of the gap between poor and rich is assumed. Also, the wealth gap isn't the threat itself. Only if people get stuck in the situation, an upraise is what one risk, because there is no other way in that case to have upward social mobility. However, that upward (and downward) mobility does exist. (as mentioned earlier) SECOND APPROACH The second route to turn this down is that such a system can't increase welfare of the state. We can't know the preferences of the people. The only way we learn their preferences at a given time is by the way they act. This means that any adviser can't decide on priorities like quality and abundance of food, transport etc. the only way he could learn what those people want is by observing what they choose. But he can't improve it, cause they choose already the things they prefer the most. For the same reason, there is no objective criterion to accept a higher real GDP as a good thing, since it will inevitably involve a trade-off with something different. It can very well be that people actually prefer more leisure time or a more moderate workload instead. And again, the only reason we can learn about these preferences (at a given time) is by observing how people act. If some people eat unhealthy food, we learn that they prefer it above the alternatives, forcing them to healthy food would actually reduce their well-being. Likewise, the fact that some people don't take extra measures to be more productive, learns us that they prefer to be less productive than their full potential, because they prefer other things above extra productivity. (like the unhealthy food for example) Even the fact that less crime at this cost (the cost - in the broad sense - of the plan that is) is good is a mere assumption that you can't know for sure. It might very well be that not having the plan and so having more crime (if that really gets reduced by this plan of course) is preferred."	CON	10
10	S7a99f4c0-A87c243e1	Video games cause violence	"Hello again. Your argument thus far is simple: Violent crimes have gone down while video game sales have gone up, showing an apparent inverse correlation of these two statistics. My counterargument, too, is simple: The apparent inverse correlation of these two statistics mask the causation that is actually there is some cases. Your statistics, at best, show that the spread of video games has not increased the number of violent crimes. This is a fair point (though I would point out that there were MANY other factors at play in contributing to the violent crime rate's decline) but my case does not contend that the spread of video games increase the number of violent crimes, but that they do indeed influence the lives of players and that they can and do at least partially cause violence. I will focus on HOW video games cause violence as well as reference incidents of publicized, mass shootings in which video games clearly played a role. First of all, video games are addictive. A study and discussion by the American Medical Association discussed the fact that video game addiction (VGA) was a real and prominent issue in the health of many Americans. Psychotherapist Shavaun Scott said that those who suffered from VGA created a separate world from reality, extremely similar to that of drug users. He elaborated that if there were conflicts in this world or if the addict became without his game, they could suffer from withdrawal or depression. These users become distant from their families and from the real world, which can lead to other mental health issues. As stated by the U.S.'s Department of Human Services, ""Psychopathology, substance abuse, poverty, cultural factors, anger, stress, and depression often are thought to cause domestic violence. While there is little empirical evidence that these factors are direct causes of domestic violence, research suggests that they can affect its severity, frequency, and the nature of the perpetrator's abusive behavior."" So, to summarize my first case, my argument is that ""Video games > Video game addiction > stress, depression, and mental health issues > domestic violence."". Still, this is just one way that video games are detrimental to relationships and cause violence. This increase in severity and frequency of domestic violence is not show in your original argument's statistics, as the number of violent crimes would not increase just because their severity and frequency increased within isolated incidents. http://serendip.brynmawr.edu... https://www.childwelfare.gov... On the subject of violent video games, I will argue that violence in games normalizes violence in real life and teaches children, teenagers, and adults the basics of shooting. For example, the U.S. Military has used and even helped develop games that simulate warfare in order to acclimate soldiers to violence and help them become more ready to pull the trigger. Soldiers interviewed by the Washington Post say that the games help them feel more normal while fighting, and that to them, shooting and killing even felt like a game after all of their years of playing. My argument here is that teaching people to be killers, as the games have obviously done, as attested to by U.S. Army soldiers, will make violent crimes with weapons more severe. The people that do play these games and then become violent will have virtual practice with weapons, and thus they will be more effective and in turn do more damage. This may not be the direct cause of violence, but it could indeed be a secondary cause. What if someone was contemplating violence, but they were unsure that they would be able to effectively harm anyone, thus making their attempt at violence useless? With video games, they are allowed to practice violence BEFORE they attack anyone, thus building their confidence that violence will be successful and convincing them to try it. http://www.washingtonpost.com... Lastly, I will provide specific examples of cases in which video games were at least a contributing cause of violence: Adam Lanza, the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooter, was an addict of both violent and nonviolent games. Data taken by a GPS device his mother had given him showed him playing Dance Dance Revolution for long periods of time on weekends. He played between 4 and 10 hours a day on Fridays, Saturdays, and Sundays. Other video games, including the notorious Call of Duty games, Grand Theft Auto, Halo, and Splinter Cell games have all been found at his home. Many news outlets have speculated that video games could have created a rift between himself and the real world, and maybe even outright trained him to believe that killing was normal. In Vietnam, a 13 year old boy murdered and robbed an 81 year old woman. He said that he needed the money to fuel his addiction to online games. Back in the States, A Jacksonvillian woman pleaded guilty to shaking her baby to death, a second degree murder charge. She told investigators that it was because the baby would not stop crying, interrupting her addiction to Farmville, the game she was playing at the time. An Ohio teen, Daniel Petric, shot and killed his mother and shot and wounded his father because they took away his copy of Halo 3, thus interrupting his video game addiction. The judge said that he ""firmly [believed] that Daniel Petric had no idea at the time he hatched this plot that if he killed his parents they would be dead forever."" It is a common element in violent video games for characters to ""respawn"" after dying. Another Vietnamese teenager murdered a 7 year old girl by bashing her head in with a rock. Police say he planned to kill the girl while they were picking fruit, stealing her gold ear rings to pay for computer games. There are at least 10 deaths that have occured because infants and small children have been left unattended for extended periods of time in heat or without food/water while the parent played addictive video games like World of Warcraft. It is not my argument that these deaths have been violent deaths, and thusly they are not direct examples of video games causing violence. Rather, they are examples of how extreme video game addiction can become, which could easily lead to violence. http://kotaku.com... http://www.news.com.au... http://jacksonville.com... http://news.softpedia.com... http://www.cbsnews.com... In summary, it is my argument that video games are addictive and destructive. I have presented examples of how this addiction can become destructive, of how it can lead to stress, anger, and domestic violence, of how it leads to irrational violence by those who are desperate to continue their addiction. I have presented an example of how it allows soldiers to normalize and prepare for violent war, and provided a hypothetical of how this could affect civilian people. Video games are AT LEAST a secondary cause of violence. Video games make violence that does occur more severe and makes those who commit it more effective. They are detrimental to society and they CAN cause violence. That will conclude my opening argument. Thank you again, and I wish you luck."	PRO	11
11	S3be9f012-Afc8560b9	The USFG should ensure the welfare of families living in poverty	"Thank you for accepting my challenge. ::DEFINITIONS:: RE D2: --I assure my opponent that I will not be making arguments based on the moral aspects. The social aspects I will refer to are things like crime, etc. RE D3: --As my opponent suspects, I am indeed referring to helping families get at least this bare minimum - a healthy diet and a place to live - but not helping them past that. RE D4: --For a family of four, poverty guidelines for 2008 set the poverty line at $21,200 annual income. This is for people living within the 48 contiguous states. http://aspe.hhs.gov... ::OBSERVATIONS:: O1: Things unrelated to this welfare policy do not necessarily have to be the status quo. For example, my opponent cannot argue that since the current tax system is unfair and this policy will require tax money, therefore this policy promotes unfairness. This policy could work under any tax system, so the unfairness of the tax system could be removed without changing my plan at all. ::PROBLEMS:: P1: Crime Crime is a problem, especially among those in poverty. Not only do those with the least have very little to lose, but they have the most to gain; stealing, for instance, can mean the difference between starving/suffering and not. P2: Low Productivity Productivity is probably the most important economic factor for a country. More productivity means higher real GDP. Higher real GDP means more economic influence in the world, a higher average standard of living, and many other economic bonuses. Those in poverty are usually very unproductive, and this is a problem my plan seeks to fix. P3: Resentment The poor currently resent the middle and upper classes because of how much the poor suffer. Under most welfare plans, the middle and upper classes resent the poor because of how much assistance the poor currently get for being lazy, wasteful, etc. My plan seeks to fix the first issue without causing this second form of resentment. ::SOLUTION/Plan:: S1: Economic Advice The USFG will utilize the expertise of economic advisors to help the families living in poverty to make a proper budget. These families will be required to meet once every 2-3 months with a budget advisor to make sure superfluous spending is extremely low. The advisor will help the family to use the most of the money they already have. If the family can do well enough on this alone [afford a good diet, afford an acceptable place to live], there is no help past that. Here is an example of some budget cuts a hypothetical family could make: Let's say I make 800 a month. That's 9600 a year, which is under the poverty line of 10,400 for families of one member. Let's say my expenses are as follows: OLD BUDGET Rent [includes electricity, water, internet, cable]: $535/month Gas [~25 miles per day, ~30 miles per gallon, ~$4 per gallon]: $100/month Car Insurance [Liability coverage]: $50/month Maintenance [Average cost per month of car repairs, etc]: $50/month Food [Crappy diet, 5 bucks a day]: $150/month Total: 885 I'd get some changes like the following: Rent, other bills [Another roommate]: $350/month Gas: same $100/month Car Insurance: same $50/month Maintenance: same $50/month Food [Good diet, 10 bucks a day]: $300/month Total: $850 Ouch! Now, I'm obviously not a budgeting expert, one could almost certainly have cut costs further, but I wanted to make the point that sometimes people will still be in need of assistance. Also, in cases where people are already rather frugal, the end result budget might actually be higher than the former one, due to food increasing in cost. This is all the help the ""Economic Advice"" will do us. S2: Getting the extra cash For the example budget I gave above, I make $800 a month and should be spending $850. Once I moved into my new apartment, that is. At that point, the Government would give me $50 in a kind of food stamps. The current food stamps system would probably suffice. This would allow me to have a balanced budget, have an adequate roof over my head, and get a good diet. In the rare cases when these [modified?] food stamps aren't enough to make a balanced budget, the government would use cash. There is a limitation on how long these systems can be used by an individual. The food stamps system would have a limitation of 7-10 years reliance. The government would only give cash to a family past the food stamps for a maximum of 2-3 years. The budget system could be used as long as someone wants to use it. Families that no longer qualify to receive the food stamps would not be given as high quality of diets on the budget, unless they can actually afford it. Further, people will only qualify for these systems if they are working or are verifiably looking for work. S3: Diet Advice People in the program would receive either emails or real mails with healthy eating advice - what foods to buy, healthy recipes, etc. This would ensure that people would be able to eat healthy with little to no knowledge of culinary arts. ::HOW IT WOULD BE BENEFICIAL:: H1: How it would reduce crime By making the lives of the poor easier, they have less incentive to commit crime. Families will not be struggling to put food on the table, so they will have much less incentive to commit crime than they would with no welfare system. H2: How it would increase productivity It is a well-known fact that healthy workers are more productive than unhealthy workers. This is why many companies pay their workers efficiency wages. Here are two reasons this plan raises productivity: Avoiding Shirking: The cost of losing your job is bigger [since the jobless are not given the same benefits], so people work hard to make sure they don't lose their job. Sociological and Nutritional theories: People will have higher morale than if they did not receive welfare, and will be better workers. They will also be healthier, due to a better diet, and will be less likely to get sick or be too ill-bodied to work well. These are two of the benefits of efficiency wages, which many companies have. The problem with efficiency wages are that they create unemployment by limiting the number of people a company can hire. This is not an issue with my plan, since companies still pay the same wages [since the benefits are given by the government, not the company]. Overall productivity rises as a result. H3: How it would reduce resentment The poor would not have such a large gap between themselves and the middle class. The size of this gap is largely the size of the resentment. Too much difference in the placement of wealth causes people to become more and more unhappy. At the extremes, it can even cause mass uprisings by the poor against the middle and upper classes. My plan reduces the wealth gap, so it reduces resentment. However, the poor are still forced to live uncomfortable lives, due to strict personal budget cuts that would occur. Thus, the middle and upper classes do not have much reason to feel resentment. The resentment itself is a problem my plan fixes/lessens, as is the possibility of revolt. And that'll be all for this round. Thanks again to my opponent for accepting this challenge. I hope it's a good debate for both of us."	PRO	12
12	S117fcf66-A6ea26a80	The statistics about poverty and crime show correlation, not causation.	This is ridiculous. Why is the drug dealer a drug dealer? Because he is poor and has few other prospects. He is not poor just because he is a criminal as something had to get him in to crime in the first place. In many cases that initial motivating factor was poverty or a lack of prospects. If it was true that the causation was reversed then there would be much more social mobility because those who started poor and deprived but wanted to work and were fundamentally honest would be socially mobile. 	CON	13
13	S3be9f012-A3d5f75b6	The USFG should ensure the welfare of families living in poverty	Sorry for the forfeit last round, I was away for the weekend and thought I had more time than I did. A few hours later I posted the following comment. I'll leave it unaltered and we'll call it even as far as forfeiting goes. Hopefully my opponent makes it to next round. I'll just defend H's, since they are the real points. For H1, how my plan reduces crime, I do not completely follow my opponent's argument. Lowering the wealth gap in any respect will reduce crimes committed by the lower class. I am lost when my opponent brings up 'moonlighting.' What is this, and how does it negate the reduction of crime? For H2, I'll first point out that my opponent is correct in saying that unproductive people are poor because they are unproductive. However, with no welfare system, they become even less productive due to being generally unhealthy. My opponent says that not everyone wants to eat healthy. This may very well be true, however little sense it makes. However, for my plan to be superior economically and socially to no welfare, it simply has to have an _overall_ positive effect on productivity [the best real indicator for the health of an economy] and on society, with no negative effects in these areas that outweigh the positive effects. Even if only 10% of poor people my plan assists eat healthier and are therefore more likely to be more productive, that is an overall positive effect. And like I said, only people with jobs are helped by my plan, therefore the VALUE of a poor person's job = SALARY WELFARE benefits, whereas VALUE = SALARY with no welfare. For H3, my opponent's only point seems to be that social mobility exists, and therefore people won't uprise no matter how big the wealth gap gets between rich and poor. However, without welfare, many poor people really don't have the possibility of upward mobility. This is because poverty leads to being unhealthy, not getting enough energy, sleeping a lot, and therefore not having the time or will necessary to achieve that upward mobility. Not only that, but the claim that uprisings cannot occur as long as there is upward mobility is on very shaky ground, and only has the weight of my opponent's assertion behind it.	PRO	14
14	Sd98be76b-A112a31ed	Resolved: When in conflict, the United Nations should prioritize global poverty reduction over envir	"His first contention is that the United Nations is corrupt. 1. His only evidence suggesting this are these examples that these things still happen. Ofcourse there will always be problems. We can't make the world perfect. The fact that it doesn't do enough has no clear link to that it is 'overwhelmingly a podium for authoritarian nations seeking to suppress human rights and keep dictators in power.' The United States supports and works in conjunction with the UN on peacekeeping missions and diplomatic missions across the globe. Obviously the general concensus is that they can atleast do something and that they aren't corrupt. To prove otherwise, he's going to need more than 1 or 2 examples that are barely related to the issue he adresses. 2. Stopping these crimes against human rights is not even one that the United Nations is required to do in the first place. We have an International Criminal Court (ICC) for that, which works in conjunction with the UN, specifically designed to prosecute crimes against humanity, for example the ones he uses in his examples. I can give examples of my own of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the Central African Republic, and even his own example of Darfur, Sudan, where the ICC has already stepped in and intervened. This is the opposite of corruption, all of these leaders who have actually committed crimes against humanity are either fugitives or in ICC custody. http://en.wikipedia.org... 3. Even if for some reason you didn't buy the first two arguments, this is irrelevant. Regardless of what the current situation is now, the argument is over what they SHOULD do. If they are doing good, then they should keep doing what they are doing. If they are doing harm, they should change. Whether or not they are or aren't currently doing good or bad, corrupt or otherwise is irrelevant to what they SHOULD do and what is best overall. This isn't a reason why they SHOULDN'T do good by prioritizing poverty reduction so it is totally irrelevant. This entire point is just completely absurd. He tries to back up a baseless claim with example that don't even really support what he is saying, misinterprets what the UN actually needs to do, and isn't even arguing on the topic of what we should or shouldn't do i.e. the resolution. *Knock Knock* ""Who's there?"" ""United Nations"" That's not funny. Obviously the United Nations is not a joke, his second contention. 1. This veto ability is part of a fair system of checks and balances that prevents the corruption that he claims in his 1st point. It is exactly what he was arguing for. It prevents human rights abuses and the 'power of the majority'. For example, in strict democracy, if the rest of the world agreed to enslave US citizens, according to democracy, they could. It's in the majority interests. There need to be checks and balances on this 'majority vote' system to prevent these abuses which is exactly what this system does. http://en.wikipedia.org... 2. There is no reason that this would ever make a decision on poverty reduction or environmental protection impossible. The ability to 'veto' is given only to 5 of the top world powers, all respected nations and all nations who deserve to have a major say in the global community. There is no reason why we can't trust these other nations, as logical human beings, not to agree to allow us to make the morally right action regarding poverty reduction. My opponent never gives a reason why they would ever abuse this veto power or even have a reason to abuse this veto power, so this claim is completely unwarranted. 3. Same argument as above. What the United Nations currently does has little to no bearing on what it should do. You can refer to the 3rd point against his 1st contention for this argument as well. This has no bearing at all on what should be done so it is irrelevant. This is a logical fallacy of 'It is; therefore, it ought to be' or in this case 'It isn't; therefore, it ought not be'. The two are not related. Contention 3 of his case: 1. Doesn't even support his case. This shows that we should make a decision based on the reduction of poverty. This would make poverty the priority, thus proving my side of this case. 2. His only real example, which he reasons is 'good' proves my case. We prioritize poverty reduction in his example by allowing the poor access to water, firewood, plants, etc. This puts poverty reduction before the environment, because a. In this example the environment is harmed. Trees can be cut down and plants can be killed. b. Poverty reduction is benefitted. We fulfill the needs of these people in poverty through use of the environment. This is a scenario that he implies is good (he says it is bad that water polution etc. makes this scenario no longer possible) and this scenario at the very base of his example for reasons a and b obviously puts poverty before the environment. 3. Look to my last contention. It is basically the contradiction of this and presented in a logically correct format. Under his arguments, the ultimate ends he achieves in this example is poor people being able to use resources (poverty reduction; a vote for me) while in my case I argue that valuing poverty reduction has other benefits besides just reduction of poverty, while environmental protection has unintended harms. The major difference is on how the decision is ultimately made, and in his example as well as my contention, the decision boils down to helping the poor, my stance in this case. Contention 4 1. I shouldn't even need to adress this because he contradicts himself. He tries to argue that the UNs job is simply to achieve world peace, but then he talks about, in the center of the paragraph, how the UN can form treaties on human rights and pollution control. He also says it is basically a world government. A government's only obligation is not simply to promote peace nor is it to implement pollution control. He has atleast 3 different definitions of the 'main purpose of the UN' all of which are logically contradictory to each other. 2. The UN doesn't simply promote world peace. The first one is the official UN site. Obviously not exclusive to 'world peace.' http://www.un.org... http://en.wikipedia.org... 3. This isn't even a point for his case. Find anywhere in this contention where he remotely makes the link to the resolution. The contention itself is 'Main Purpose of the UN' and he seems to imply that that is simply world peace. He doesn't give any justification or even explain why that matters in the context of the debate. This entire contention is useless to him aswell. Summary: His contentions are all based on flawed logic and distorted facts and they don't even prove his side of the argument. None of them contain within them any reason to vote for him even if he could prove them true. He has no case at all. Mine is the only one in this round."	PRO	15
15	Sb17e194f-A52267996	parental irresponsibility is the cause of the high rate of school dropout	Section 1 (Defense): Parental Involvement is the Most Paramount Factor to Academic Success My opponent has falsely implied that a death in the family implies that one parent (or both) are deemed irresponsible, which is a complete fabrication of this section, and not even mentioned in my argument frankly. My argument addressed how a lack of responsible parental involvement attributes to the factors that my opponent claims outweighs parental irresponsibility itself. But to refute, death isn’t even the major cause of such single-parent families anymore. By 1996 in the United States, the single-parent home was expected to include a never-married individual as a divorced parent. Unmarried women in the United States are responsible for approximately 1/3 births in 1995, compared with 1/5 in 1980 and 1/10 in 1970[1]. Therefore, we have single parents (mostly women) that never married, and have their children out of wedlock, which leads to such single-parent households with an absent father not due to death, but irresponsibility in their own sexual conduct. I then challenge my opponent’s claim he makes in his first section: “ most students drop out of school because of poverty” Where is the statistic that shows poverty makes students drop out? Poverty itself isn’t a reason that makes students drop out, that’s just a broad brushstroke for a possibility of other certain factors, and what seems to be an unreferenced one at that Section 2 (Defense): Many Other Contributing Factors have a Direct Link to Parental Involvement in Regards to Academic Success The dropout rate for African-Americans reached a momentous trough of 8% in 2013, whereas rates amid Hispanic students also attained a significant low of 12% in 2013. In spite of this, the enduring decline is at least in some measure related to enlarged incarceration rates among young black and Hispanic males, which disproportionally affects dropout rates, as it has more than doubled between 1980 and 1999, eliminating them from the statistical count[2] This indicates that the “dropout” rate is still plagued by students, predominantly Hispanic and African-American, due to higher incarceration rates of such potential graduates. But again, as I said in the last round, such a factor can be greatly reduced due to a better family structure in the home of the student. Gottfredson and Hirschi (1990) assert that bad parenting has one criminogenic significance, which is low self-control in children. They also affirm that low self-control is not a learned trait, but rather children unconsciously progress such low self-control because poor parenting produces an unruly home life. A dysfunctional home life fails to indoctrinate in children the required internal social controls that will help them avoid them from participating in criminal (or similar) behaviors impulsively. This study affirms that ineffective parenting is the primary source of low self-control and, therefore, self-control facilitates the consequences between parenting and crime. Therefore, this coincides with my Second Section very nicely, in which we have a superficial factor (incarceration due to crime) that is pertained to students not completing high school, and it is sufficiently linked to poor parenting examples in the child’s home. So when my opponent continues to assert that bad parenting and a dysfunctional family structure is not the ultimate cause of such high dropout rates, or takes a back-seat to other factors, he fails to recognize where such superficial factors are generated from. Moving along, my opponent has clearly missed my example with teenage pregnancy, as my opponent actually brought it up as one of his factors that, (in his view), outweigh parental irresponsibility as the cause of high school drop-out rates. I clearly stated that women with absent fathers have a significantly higher chance or teenage pregnancy than those that have fathers that are actively present in their lives. Now in the second round, my opponent clearly stated teenage pregnancy as one of his contentions for dropout rates, so would my opponent be backtracking his previous statement? Section 3: Rebuttals to my Opponent’s Previous Claims An 8000 character limits me from debating my opponent’s individual claims contently, but since he boasts that they are uncontested, I must address them as concisely but adequately as possible Teenage Pregnancy: Already discussed The Urge of Pursuing Their Talents/ 'Get Rich Quick' Attitude/ Lateness Absenteeism: What are these referring to? Who’s urging who? Teachers? Parents? This is a broad generalization of a claim that seems to be false, and used to stuff the numbers of the “9:1” ratio against ineffective parenting Lack of Proper Teacher-Parent-Interaction: If a teacher is not communicative, then yes I agree that it can be a problem. However, I would ask the opponent how many teachers does a child go through in his/her years? One teacher? For the 12+ years it takes from the beginning of education to the end of high school? My opponent apparently knows something we do not or this is again another tactic of a broad brushstroke claim that is unfounded in terms of high school dropout rates. Psychological Disorders or Other Physical Diseases If a child has psychological conditions from birth, or is held back due to a medical condition, then yes I am sure that a child could be left behind in some cases. No one doubts that such exceptions should be made in terms of medical conditions. However I contest that this would top parental irresponsibility, or else perhaps my opponent’s argument would then be that a sizeable percentage do not finish high school because of medical concerns? This by no means outweighs the percentage of my argument of the family environment of the student. The Will of the Child: I challenge what my opponent refers to here? Again, this is another cause of my opponent making a broad brushstroke of an unfounded claim to stuff his “ratio” for such flawed support for his argument. What does my opponent exactly define by the “will of the child”? The Influence of the Media/ Bad societal values/ Peer Influence: My opponent still fails to see my argument of Section 2, which is that many factors are in fact caused, promoted, or limited by the family environment of the student. I agree that media has an influence in all of us, but there are ways that parents can block negative influence or promote positive external influences in their kids through media. For example, if a kid is watching most media through a TV, there is research and methods that indicate how parents can reduce the influence of media on their children[4]. Simple measures such as reduction of television viewing, discussing about violence or other negative behavior with children, keeping violence out of the home (which is even more of an influence that a plain media influence) and consistency in discipline. So yes, my opponent’s “9:1 ratio” is simply illogical to defend. I will then refute his claim that students will act like “angels” at the home, but then for some reason will turn into some “demons” in the classroom. I challenge as to what he is referencing here. A study? A statistic? His own personal account, which would most likely not be representative of a sample population? ----- References: [1]: http://family.jrank.org... [2]: http://www.childtrends.org... [3]: Unnever, James D., Francis T. Cullen, and Robert Agnew. WHY IS “BAD” PARENTING CRIMINOGENIC? A TEST OF RIVAL THEORIES* [4]: http://www.apa.org... ----- Thank you again to chezbona for his participation, his rationale, his effort. Best of luck to him in voting and all his future debates.	PRO	16
16	Sb17e194f-A64522c0d	parental irresponsibility is the cause of the high rate of school dropout	#PARENTAL INVOLVEMENT IS THE MOST PARAMOUNT FACTOR TO ACADEMIC SUCCESS. totally wrong parental involvement is a factor, but not the most paramount factor to academic excellence. My opponent talks about single-fathers or mothers which does not point out the irresponsibility in the motion If parents die due to illness or an accident and their children drop out of school to cater for themselves. Do we term the parents as irresponsible. If there is no life, there is no responsibility. My opponent mentioned a lot of statistics which gives me the right to argue nationally. In Africa, most students drop out of school because of poverty. No country is fully developed in Africa with an exception of South African and a few. Citizens live in harsh economic conditions. Even Abraham Maslow, an American sociologist made us understand in his theory of needs that education is not one of the primary basic need of a child. Considering his physiological needs, parents need to provide food, shelter, security, housing. If then parents find it difficult to see their children through school should we therefore equate POVERTY to IRRESPONSIBILITY. #MANY OTHER CONTRIBUTING FACTORS HAVE A DIRECT LINK TO PARENTAL INVOLVEMENT IN REGARDS TO ACADEMIC SUCCESS Most parent wakes up every morning and prepare for work with their children as their main priority. Parents wants their children to become successful in life and they are literate about the fact that the surest way to attain that is through education. My opponents argument on 'teenage pregnancy' is totally absurd. Is it the intentions of parents to see their children become pregnant. Is my opponent saying that peer influence has no contribution to the increase in teenage pregnancy. How about adolescent sexual behaviour, exploitation by men, socio-economic factors and inadequate knowledge about sex ? Some students play angel-demon cipher, they tend to behave like angels and put up bad behaviours at school. In school, students get intimidated, some wants to be noticed. They therefore follow companies(good or bad -mostly ones that put them on the spotlight). Students inculcate different kinds of bad habits which have no traits from their home so my opponent should not tell me that the first step in addressing those factors starts with family. So it is quite clear that opponent has not been able to refute any of my points. All his statistics just compromises 1% of the cause of the HIGH RATE of school drop out as compared to the remaining 9% nationally. My ratio still stands. According to DAILY GRAPHIC PUBLICATIONS. In USA, Only 56% of students from high school actually go to college. The world evolves, students are given much freedom than they deserve. Parents can even be sued for attempts to discipline their children. The present generation must pave way for the future generation so when students decides to drop out of school and pursue their dreams which out boxes education, Do we blame parents. Certainly not! My opponent would definitely agree to that. My opponent only raised teenage pregnancy which means he agrees with the remaining points. He clearly stated that they link to parental irresponsibility but the HOW aspect was difficult to find. Most students drop out of school for the following reasons #1 Illness #2 The urge of pursuing their talents #3 will of the child #4 Teenage pregnancy and a lot more reasons that i have mentioned in round 2. 1:9 1 for parental irresponsibility, 9 for the other causes Thank you. References: [1] http://www.princeton.edu...... [2] https://www.google.com...	CON	17
17	Sd98be76b-Af7020100	Resolved: When in conflict, the United Nations should prioritize global poverty reduction over envir	Sorry about not having this argument up yesterday like I said I would. I accidentally deleted the entirety of what I had written and had to start over. The ultimate goal of both poverty reduction and environmental protection is the welfare of people. Both poverty and poor environment make life worse overall for the people they affect. First, the environment fixes itself while poverty entrenches itself. The environment in general has the ability to 'bounce back'. For countless years the earth has been plagued by natural disasters, plagues, droughts, people, etc. After all of this, the environment comes out fine. Nature adapts rather well to attacks on it and survives. On the other hand, poverty tends to create more poverty. Entire continents like Africa fell behind the rest of the community and from there look how they've ended up. Most minority communities in the United States came here with very little money. 100 and 200 years later, look where they've ended up. Poor neighborhoods and ghettos are filled disproportionately with minorities. What example can you give of a society where poverty just worked itself out? There are none. Therefore we can come to the conclusion that; when in conflict we ought to prioritize global poverty reduction over environmental protection because it is a more urgent need and will compound more quickly if not fixed. Second, much of modern environmental protection is at the expense of people. Two recent example I've heard of are these: 3 people died fighting a forest fire in California. They didn't have enough water to adequately squelch the fire because of restrictions on using a nearby river in order to save a certain species of fish. Also, we have the more recent and publicized issue of the farmers versus the smelt. Water supply to multiple farms has been cut off in order to protect a species of fish of relatively little importance. It is too often that 'protecting the environment' ends up hurting people. Therefore we can come to the conclusion that; when in conflict we ought to prioritize global poverty reduction over environmental protection because, while poverty reduction will always be to the benefit of people, protection of the environment can sometimes lead to our harm. In these cases, people are being valued below animals, which is, for obvious reasons, bad. Third, global poverty reduction can easily lead to environmental protection. Subsistence farmers in Brazil cut back the Amazon Rain Forest to make farm land. Poor Africans kill elephants for their valuable tusks. Native tribesmen of both the African and South American rainforests cut down valuable trees like teak and mahogany. Poor children burn electronics releasing toxic chemicals into the air in order to gather the precious metals inside. They do all these things for the same reasons. They have to feed themselves and their families. Every one of these groups of people mentioned is among the poorest on our planet. These environmental atrocities are commited not out of hatred, but out of desparation. If we provide relief to those in poverty, we can avoid this destruction of the environment. However, if we maintain some strict standards on environmental control, these people are going to be subjected to malnourishment and starvation because we will have taken away their only way to live. Therefore we can come to the conclusion that; when in conflict we ought to prioritize global poverty reduction over environmental protection because putting environmental protection first will lead to more global poverty, while valuing poverty reduction can lead to environmental gains.	PRO	18
18	S2250950f-A705f0d7e	Arming the police does not deal with the causes underlying violence	The real issues that cause crime usually lie in societal issues and a lack of a proper rehabilitation effort in the justice system. The root problems are therefore not being solved by arming the police. This policy only masks the problems societies face. Governments need to make more long-term, sustainable investments. They should be attempting to change the culture that creates violence, providing jobs for those who are in poverty making sure that everyone feels they have a stake in society, rather than rely on a “quick fix” plan that tackles none of the real issues.	PRO	19
19	Sd98be76b-Aa42d51e8	Resolved: When in conflict, the United Nations should prioritize global poverty reduction over envir	"UN: knock knock Myanmar Junta: Whoï¿½€™s there? UN: Itï¿½€™s the United Nations Junta: who? Un: this is the United Nations we need to talk! Junta: Oh Yea ï¿½€"" youï¿½€™re the guy who tried to sell us democracy and human rights last year ï¿½€"" Iï¿½€™m sorry we donï¿½€™t accept solicitors on a Monday. I stand in Negation of the Resolution Resolved: When in conflict, the United Nations should prioritize global poverty reduction over environmental protection. Definitions: Poverty: a certain level of material deprivation below, which an individual suffers physically, emotionally, and socially Environment: the area in which something exists or lives United Nations ï¿½€"" An international organization committed to preserving peace through international cooperation and collective security Contention 1) The United Nations is Corrupt The United Nations as constituted is profoundly corrupt. In a world filled with war-mongering dictators and suppressing regimes who know that the UN lacks any real power, regimes are almost completely free to do whatever they want. It is funded by the lavish UN bureaucracies that are rank with bribery and bid rigging. The UN supported Saddam's regime by allowing oil-for-food money to be channeled away from the people to the government of Iraq. The United Nations is structured in a way that allows non-democratic nations to block advancement of the interests of democratic nations. It does things like elect Libya, ""One of the world's worst abusers of human rights"" to chair its Human Rights Commission. It cannot even pass a resolution condemning genocide in Darfur or Zimbabwe, let alone do anything about it. The UN is overwhelmingly a podium for authoritarian nations seeking to suppress human rights and keep dictators in power. Contention 2) The UN is a joke The United Nations is unable to take direct and independent actions without support from its members. In other words, the UN is completely powerless and pacifistic. For example the UN has five nations with veto powers. These veto powers give these five nations the ability to disagree with anything that does not help them. This fails for many reasons. One is a true democracy among nations is unbiased and fair. Thus the structure of the Un needs a major overhaul. This too is not likely to happen since the countries with vetoing powers are unlikely to unanimously agree to give up there right to veto for fairness sake. As stated previously the United Nations has proven itself as a failure for its entire history and will continue being useless. Maybe if peaceful countries withdraw their membership and stop participating in the UN as a protest it will force it to adopt new methods and stop dealing with non-peaceful and non-humanitarian nations. Contention 3) Environmental degradation causes poverty and should be the first priority Poverty is increasingly caused by environmental scarcities. Awareness and concern about environmental degradation has grown around the world over the last few decades, and are currently shared by people of different nations. The poor feel the negative impacts of environmental degradation. The poor often rely on natural resources to meet their basic needs through agricultural production and gathering resources essential for household maintenance, such as water, firewood and wild plants for consumption and medicine. Thus the depletion and contamination of water sources directly threaten the livelihoods of those who depend on them. Contention 4) Main purpose of the UN The United Nations provides a place for the countries of the world to do two things. First and most important it allows countries a neutral means of communication. This is important because most conflicts that don't involve fighting over things can be resolved if both sides sit down and talk it out. Second the United Nations is in a basic sense is a world government. That being said the amount of power the UN can exert on a sovereign nation is basically up to that nation, however, the UN is a place where treaties can be agreed upon, such as human rights issues, or pollution control. To avoid country's from going to war . The United Nations (UN) generally works towards world solutions to avoid more serious problems and to work toward the world getting along better. In other words, the UN tries to achieve world peace. Conclusion Thus I negate the resolution on the fact that the UN is a joke, it is corrupt and it is not the United Nations responsibility to fight poverty or environmental crisis. Also I negate the resolution When in conflict, the United Nations should prioritize global poverty reduction over environmental protection because environmental degradation causes poverty."	CON	20
20	Sd98be76b-Aac20c89d	Resolved: When in conflict, the United Nations should prioritize global poverty reduction over envir	"First I shall extend my case. I concede my points about the U N being a joke and corrupt 1) because they are not important and were just used to get the aff to go on a tangent and not extend his case. 2) they really have nothing to do with case. My definitions stand because they were unrefuted and the affirmative failed to provide them/ My Contention 3 is where I shall start as it is most vital to the resolution. Environmental Degradation leads to poverty is the main point of my case. This is because it is one of the sole causes of poverty and death. According tn AFP article air pollution in Iran's capital of Tehran killed 3,600 people in one month. A new study determined that unseen and odorless, microscopic particles of air pollution wafting overseas and across continents kill 380,000 people each year. Once again I am going to talk about Darfur. The conflict in Darfur has greatly accelerated the processes of environmental degradation that have been undermining subsistence livelihoods in the area over recent decades. The debate over Darfur illustrates a huge conflict. The lowest neighboring tribes and villages displaying a difference in livelihood as resources become scarcer and scarcer. Traditional rules of environmental management have been thrown away and weakened causing more poverty and more death. A study done last year shows the death due to the ozone layer had researcher 2.7 million across the country every year.That is a lot of people that could be saved if we focused on the environmental protection. 29,000 children die every single day because of environmental degradation. What that means is these deaths are avoidable if we could focus and save the environment. Thus environmental degregation causes povety and death, through a negative vote you save lifes and help to end poverty at the same time. I want to go to my 4th contention. The real purpose of United nations is to bring all nations of the world to work together for peace and development, based on the principles of justice, human dignity and the well-being of people. These means they are trying to keep peace throughout the world. Develop friendly relationships between nations. and work together to help people better their lives and to stop environmental destruction. That is taken directly from the UN charter. Notice how nothing is said about poverty? Well, that is simply because poverty is preventable through saving the environment from degradation. I will now go to my opponents case. His first contention about the environment fixes itself while poverty entrenches itself is completely dropped. Therefore, I urge that you strike it from the flow. His second contention about the modern environmental protection is at the expense of the people. I am sorry but this was also stricken from the flow as it was not extended. However, I could see as to where one could almost see if they looked hard enough that he did extend it. So to be safe I shall answer it as concisely as possible. In the Nov. 8 Lancet, the Lancet, The British medical journal established in 1823, published weekly from New York and London. Its founder and first editor, Thomas Wakley, considered at the time a radical reformer, stated that the intent of the new journal was to report on hospital lectures and In the Nov 8 the Lancet, the working group predicts that ""700,000 avoidable deaths will occur annually"" from particulate exposures by 2020 ""under the business-as-usual forecasts, when compared with the climate-policy scenario."" The cumulative impact between 2000 and 2020 of not adopting sharp climate protection policies could be some 8 million premature deaths, most of them in developing countries. This is important notice how those 8 million deaths are AVOIDABLE by using environmental protection. Thus we can conclude that environmental protection is not at the expense of the people unless you want to be dead. If that be the case then by all means vote affirmative. His refutation on my contention 3 is inadequate. He states that my conention supports poverty reduction and he is absolutely correct but not quite the way he says. Through my contention 3 of protecting the environment we limit poverty. When the environment is harmed it causes death and poverty as shown above. My opponents basis that poverty reduction becomes the priority with this contention is false. It is false because we are focusing on the environmental aspect and by doing so we are able to overcome poverty at the same time. Thus urging a negative ballot. Now seeing as I still have characters left we shall again extend my 3rd contention. That is environmental degradation causes poverty. Both environmental degradation and poverty alleviation are urgent global issues that have a lot in common, but are often treated separately. Consider the following. Human activities are resulting in mass species extinction rates higher than ever before, currently approaching 1000 times the normal rate. Human-induced climate change is threatening an even bleaker future. Nepal and Bangladesh have suffered from various environmental problems such as increasingly devastating floods, often believed to be resulting from large-scale deforestation. Nepal is the poorest country in South Asia and ranks as the twelfth poorest country in the world.Bangladesh belongs to the poorest group of countries in the world.The World Bank's World Development Indicators puts Bangladesh in 170th place (out of 207 countries) in the global ranking. Thus we can see the link from environmental degradation to poverty.Therefore if we save the environment we save the people from poverty. I urge a negative ballot on the resolution Resolved: When in conflict, the United Nations should prioritize global poverty reduction over environmental protection Because the affirmative did not extend two arguments. The affirmative attacked the weaker parts of my case that did not matter to the resolution. The main reason to vote for the negative saves lives and stops poverty as well as saving the environment. Thank you, and happy voting"	CON	21
21	Sfffd366c-A2322a6b1	Being Religious in America: Does Not Make You More Likely To Commit Crimes.	Being religious does not {on average} make you more likely to commit crimes in America. If anything, I would argue some aspects of it, probably make it less likely for you to commit crimes. I don't think prisoners citing a religion can be used to prove religion is the cause of crime {in most cases}. I would say there are many more causes behind crime.	PRO	22
22	Sd98be76b-A7b488008	Resolved: When in conflict, the United Nations should prioritize global poverty reduction over envir	"Since this is the last speech, I will try to keep all of my arguments strictly to reasons why to vote for me. I will be giving 5 specific voting issues that will justify an affirmative vote. I'll win all five arguments, but in reality, you could just find the one you most agree with and read the impact. Winning any one of these will easily justify a win for me, and I'll certainly explain how. ONE: My opponent is abusive Debate is: 1. Competitive 2. Educational 1. Competition My opponent throws out multiple straw man arguments with no purpose except to waste my character space. By the time I have given good responses to these pointless arguments, I don't have enough character space left to address the real points of his case. If you subscribe to this win-at-all-costs logic, debate becomes simply throwing more arguments out there and extending whichever one(s) the opponent couldn't cover. This takes the competitive value out of debate because it becomes a race to the bottom. The less evidence you provide, the more arguments you can fit in, so the more you win. This means there is no intellectual competition going on, and winning the debate equates to nothing because all you prove is that you could put more arguments out there. 2. Education His strawman UN-is-evil arguments take a topic that is supposed to educate us on the debate of poverty over the environment, and center it on whether the UN is corrupt. He admits that his UN points are obviously incorrect, so debating them has no educational value anyway. Next, we have this issue of evidence. Read his original third contention. It is poorly put together, has no warrant, and is the shortest of his four contentions. There really wasn't anything there for me to rebut except his poorly put together logic. Then in his last speech, he gives evidence to support his claim (with no links at all to back it up!), giving me only a single speech to respond. By doing this, I don't have time to have a full debate on this issue. These arguments will never be able to be fully developed and debated like they would be if he made them in his original speech, so there is a significant educational loss here because of his underhanded tactics. IMPACT: Regardless of whether or not he wins that the environment supersedes poverty (he won't), he is doing it in an unfair way that is harmful to debate and abusive to me. He can never justify a vote in his favor by using underhanded tactics, because if we were to conform to his tactics, there would be no real debate going on at all. TWO: His 4th Contention, Purpose of the UN He argues in both speeches that the United Nations is only going to do what it was designed to do. I TOTALLY AGREE. Now look at the warrants on both sides. I give you two links showing that the UN clearly makes efforts to reduce poverty. He gives absolutely no examples of the UN prioritizing the environment. IMPACT: Read his definition of UN, read his 4th contention and the place he re-extends it. He clearly proves that the UN isn't going to act outside of its game plan. I prove that the UN does help the poor, he doesn't prove that the UN helps the environment, so by HIS OWN LOGIC I win this debate because my side is the only one the United Nations could feasibly enact. THREE: His third contention Look at my first rebuttal where I turned his third his 3rd contention into a reason to vote for me. What is so awesome is that he helps me by strengthening his original claim with more evidence, without ever addressing the turn I put on it proving it is a reason to vote for me. You have a contention, ironclad with his own evidence, that conclusively proves that environmental protection is a vehicle we can use to reach the goal of helping the poor. His contention says this; rebuttal says this. He never denies it. His only offensive argument in this case values protection of the poor as the ultimate goal and only looks to protecting the environment as a means to reach that goal. This is clearly prioritization of my side of the resolution, because his justification of his methods as good is that the help the poor. IMPACT: 1. You have a plan of action, given by my opponent and not me, that the United Nations should take. Throughout the entirety of his case, his justification of this contention is that it will lead to helping the poor. I pointed out the fact that this means he is prioritizing poverty reduction as the ultimate goal. HE NEVER ADDRESSED THIS. Therefore, he concedes that his only relevant contention is in actuality a reason to vote for me. 2. This was the only argument that he ever claimed was a reason to vote for him. I've disproved this so there's no reason he has left to win him a vote. --- My final two points are my first two contentions. He makes the argument that you can drop them because they weren't 'extended' by me. Think about what he is saying: He didn't make a rebuttal of any sort on these contentions, and none of his contentions remotely clashed with my first two. There was nothing that he ever said that would make my first contentions untrue, so there was no reason I needed to waste space rejustifying arguments you could already accept as true. If what he was looking for was some confirmation that I was still using my case as a means to win the round and not doing some underhanded burden-shift like he was, then you can look to, for example, the very last sentences in my rebuttal where I say ""He has no case at all. Mine is the only one in this round."" I explicitly put forth the idea that my case was the only case that held any weight as a reason to vote, so I fulfilled my obligation in 'extending' it. There was nothing further I needed to do to prove it true because he never came remotely close to rebutting it in his first speech. FOUR: My First Contention He never gives any intelligible reason anywhere in any of his speeches why my first contention isn't true. I'll simply restate it, so you don't have to scroll back up and reread. Poverty is a vicious cycle. Those in poverty are dug further into poverty, I gave examples. The environment is a virtuous cycle. Even when beaten and battered, it comes back as good as new. I gave examples. If you had two debts (say, for example, $1,000 each) and you needed to decide which to pay off, would you pay off the one that increased by $100 dollars every year, or the one that decreased by $100 dollars every year. IMPACT: It's simple logic and something he never disproved. The fact that he doesn't address this means he concedes it as true. We choose poverty reduction because it is urgent and compounding. It's as simple as that. FIVE: My second contention He simply gives one example (with no reference to site) as a completely rebuttal of this point. I still win this point because: 1. I have numerous examples (you can apply the ones in my C3 also) from across the globe with clear links and impacts. He has one. 2. He doesn't show how his solution would ever fix poverty in the slightest, so it doesn't refute to my point. 3. He doesn't address the logical arguments I make about the necessities of the poor superseding the environment. IMPACT: This one is obvious. I proved his side harms people and my side helps people. I disproved his rebuttal, so you can vote for me on the basis that my side is the clearly superior choice for humanity. Summary, ONE: He is cheating and ruining debate TWO: His own definition and C4 prove my case is the only feasible one. THREE: He drops the argument that his only 'true' contention actually proves that you should vote for me. FOUR: He drops the argument that my side ought to be prioritized because it is urgent and compounding. FIVE: My side is the only one that benefits humans. His harms them. He couldn't disprove this. Like I said, any of these 5 is reason alone to vote for me. Side Note: I'm the only person with links to any evidence at all."	PRO	23
23	S117fcf66-A5f31e7f2	Some of the biggest crimes that affect society the most are committed by huge multinational companies or wealthy individuals.	Tax evasion is costing the developing world around $160 billion a year[1] to those who most need it (incidentally this is more than the entire global aid budget). These are huge, global crimes that have effects of billions of people. It does not take a stretch of the imagination to illustrate how some of the tax evaders can cause poverty, illness and even death to others; as the money they do not pay in tax can therefore not be used for road safety, pensions, healthcare, world aid or many other institutions (that the tax evaders are still able to make use of). This illustrates how the crime of tax evasion can have serious consequences. In the US the most common tax evader is a male, under 50 and of the highest earning bracket. Globally the most common tax evaders are large multi-national companies. This illustrates that these large scale crimes are not being committed by those from deprived backgrounds, but rather from the greed of the wealthy to have more wealth. [1] Christian Aid, ‘Christian Aid urges G20 to crach down on tax dodging pinstripe ‘pirates’, 3 September 2009.	PRO	24
24	S7a99f4c0-Aff955c7f	Video games cause violence	Do video games cause violence in our society today? I will be against and anyone who wants to can be for the argument. (Please note that I am new to this site, so if I do something wrong during set up, please let me know) Round one will be for acceptance. May the best arguments win!	CON	25
25	S7a99f4c0-A677267b4	Video games cause violence	First of all, I would like to state my appreciation and respect for the opponent. I believe this is the first debate for both of us. I will be presenting my case that video games do indeed cause violence in our society today. Thank you again, and I will see you in Round Two.	PRO	26
26	Sb17e194f-A919f5b43	parental irresponsibility is the cause of the high rate of school dropout	According to a research conducted in the university of Cape Coast, South Africa. to determine the cause of the high rate and percentage of school dropout in the country. The school drop out rate was 51%. Their statistics explained that 5% dropped out because their parents were irresponsible and showed no care about the consequences of their actions. Considering the remaining 46% who dropped out for other reasons such as; lateness absenteeism, teenage pregnancy peer influence the urge of pursuing their talents, Bad societal values, 'get rich quick' attitude, lack of proper teacher-parent-interaction, psychological disorders o other physical diseases, the will of the child, the influence of the media, The ratio of parental irresponsibility to the other causes, 1:9. Totally incomparable. So therefore, if parental irresponsibility were to be decreased. It would not cause any intense or much alteration in the high rate of school dropout because only very few number of students drop out of school because of their parents irresponsibility. It is neither the sole nor the major cause. It is biased for parental irresponsibility to be blamed for THE cause of the HIGH RATE of school dropout. That is what the motion should be based on. In High Schools and Tertiary level, a very large proportion of students live in the boarding house and hostels respectively. These students for a greater part of the year, live outside the influence of their parents, their behaviors,actions, deeds thoughts,choices are influenced by their peers. Those they regard to as' school mother' or 'school fathers' when these students acquire bad habits, which causes disillusionment, resulting in poor grades and eventually causing them to drop out of school. This can not be blamed on the parents. It is also unfortunate that most often, society accords so much respect to the rich irrespective of how their wealth was acquired. Everybody therefore wants to be rich. This is the obscuring agent that beclouds the mind of an intellect, confusing him as to what be wants to become in future and the way in which he should attain that position. That is why you find so many children engaging in armed robbery, cyber crimes, kidnapping and even prostitution. Coping with their education would no longer be an existing option for them. God didn't create humans and said 'do only good' No, we have a choice, to do good or bad. our line of actions determines the consequences. A great number of students drop out of school for reasons other for the unwillingness of their parents to perform their parents to perform their duty. period.	CON	27
27	Sb17e194f-Ab59b693d	parental irresponsibility is the cause of the high rate of school dropout	Parental irresponsibility is the cause if the high rate of school dropout. I greatly disagree to the motion. parents can sometimes cause their children to drop out of school but that doesn't mean the cause of the high rate of school dropout should be solely attributed to them	CON	28
28	Sd98be76b-A6ab92c6d	Resolved: When in conflict, the United Nations should prioritize global poverty reduction over envir	Resolved: When in conflict, the United Nations should prioritize global poverty reduction over environmental protection. I will go Con. The Affirmative may present its case in the rest of round 1 and I will then lay out my case round 2 Then the affirmative can atttack/build their case in round 2 I will build my case/attack their case in round 3 Then can then attack my case and pretty much its the last rebuttals/conclusions so no new data	CON	29
29	S4381b332-A12582be1	I think it does	In my opinion violent video games do cause crime because I have heard news that there was a guy that was playing Call of Duty Modern Warfare 2 and he ran away from home. It was caused because he was playing Call of Duty when he was on Xbox live. He was missing for 2 weeks and his parents didn’t check up on him or cared about him. 2 weeks later they found the child dead in the forest. But I do think that it only accrues to different types of children. So I do think that violent video game cause crime.	PRO	30
30	Sb17e194f-A5b48c37a	parental irresponsibility is the cause of the high rate of school dropout	"Although there can be many existential factors that can lead to a normative high school drop out rate, I argue that ""parental irresponsibility"" is the factor that chiefly contributes to this phenomenon. I agree that the dropout rate is not *solely* attributed to parental irresponsibility, but the main point should be that addressing this cause as the chief factor for such high dropout rates will significantly decrease such dropout rates better than any other factor, even existential ones."	PRO	31
31	S117fcf66-A379a9c23	In an age of consumerism, the primary cause of crime is a greed or desperation to ‘fit in’, or ‘have it all’.	This opposition argument two is not as clear cut as it seems. While it is true that society encourages us to value material goods, and that this encourages crime, it is also clear that this effects those from socially deprived areas much more than those from stable or wealthy backgrounds. In many socially deprived societies, the lack of education and resources invested in the younger generation mean that the poverty cycle continues to define how well these young people will do as adults. The family they are born into is still the biggest predictor of a person’s life trajectory. If social mobility is not a truly viable option for young people from impoverished backgrounds to succeed, they may see crime as the only way to reach the material goods that so commonly are associated with personal achievement. One current example of this is the riots that occurred in major cities throughout the UK in 2011. Perhaps one of the most notable acts of the riots was the looting, particularly as the majority of looting was from high street stores not for necessities or for high end goods, but rather for average things the looters wanted. Zoe Williams explains the riots as such ‘this is what happens when people don't have anything, when they have their noses constantly rubbed in stuff they can't afford, and they have no reason ever to believe that they will be able to afford it’.[1] Therefore in this case criminality is caused by consumerism as the opposition argument two suggests, but this is compounded by the cyclical nature of social deprivation that looks unlikely to be solved. [1] Williams, Zoe, ‘The UK riots: the psychology of looting’, guardian.co.uk, 9 August 2011.	CON	32
32	Sabaa6f17-Aefefcee	Gun control does not reduce crime (USA only)	"Thank you to my opponent for some of his thoughtful points! I hope I can counter him! My fellow DDOians, let me be the first to say that I want to stop crime as much as possible. My vision is that we all live in a world free from fear, harm, and that we all need to work together to ensure every american family can feel safe within their homes. Which is why I personally support gun control laws. I couldn't imagine the pain of losing a loved one to a shooting, and I think we all agree that we do not want to see criminals getting guns, but the question thus becomes, how do we best stop criminals from getting them? The answer is regulation, in my opinion, which we already have. So let's examine my opponents case and counter them. C1: Correlation is not Causation My opponent is trying to show a correlation between several factors: location and gun laws. However, correlation does not establish causation. As such, my opponents case is dead on arrival. Many factors goes into the crime rate, including but not limited to: poverty rates, child upbringing, avalible social services, ghettoization, policing, laws, enforcement, etc... Thus, my opponent at best has established a questionable cause fallacy. Because gun laws are already in effect and my opponent is challenging the status quo, I don't believe he has established enough to hit his BOP. C2: Cherry-Picked Evidence My opponent selects Vermont, and compares it to D.C. This is an odd comparison. D.C is unique in that it is not technically a state in the first place. Vermont boarders along Canada (which has crazy strict gun laws in and of itself), is one of the least populated states, it has one of the lowest poverty rates, and one of the highest rates of personal income in the country. An odd comparison when D.C Has ghettoization, is under supreme control of Congress rather than a Mayor and City Council, and is subject to national political issues rather than local, a frequent issue with D.C politics. D.C also has a higher unemployment rate overall, and less income with its people. Really, one would be safer to compare a steak to a watermelon, just nothing in common and kinda unfair. Source: http://en.wikipedia.org...; http://en.wikipedia.org...; C3: Legal Owners are Not Harmed by Gun Laws My opponents claim that ""criminals will continue to get weapons on the black market illegally, will mean gun laws harm legal gun owners"" makes several fundamental errors. For one, criminals are criminals because they break the law, by very definition of being a criminal. For this logic, shall we legalize murder because people will still kill people, despite it being against the law? The reason why we make laws like this, is because laws can be an extention of our values as a society, and does not always have to be about impacts. I for one, do not value people who are mentally unstable from operating a gun, for instance, regardless of the potential impacts it may have, even if we do assume my opponents assertion is even correct in the first place. Thing is, is that several organizations have pointed out that gun laws work. Which is why the U.S Government continues to impliment them. Gun laws can make potenital criminals reconsider their actions, not be able to obtain a gun in the first place, gives police enhanced powers to investigate potential gun issues, and a variety of other impacts. Even if in theory it didn't prevent criminals from getting a gun, gun issues are a huge burden on the healthcare industry in terms of costs annually. Harvard's School od Public Health has extensive studies on gun laws, due to the problems and impacts guns have on health. Sources: http://smartgunlaws.org...; http://www.hsph.harvard.edu...; C4: Case Studies Proving Gun Laws Would Have Worked (Naval Yard Shooting, and Fort Hood Shooting) With the Naval Yard Shooter, the perputrator Aaron Elexis could have been stopped the entire time, should a simple background check used on him. Aaron thought he could actually talk to microwaves, cited for misconduct issues in the military, and even former shooting issues that turned out to be non-fatal. The fact that he was even in another former shooting incident should have resulted in a red flag being raised when he purchased a gun legally. Because the background check on him did not go far enough (not enough gun regulation), lives were lost as a result. Worse yet, even his own doctor was perscribing him medications out of fear that Aaron would harm someone. Nidal Malik Hasan, the perp of the Fort Hood Shooting was also known to frequent terrorist sites that preached extreemism, and promoted suicide bombings. Mainly, he was in touch with several known, and highly dangerous, Al-Qaeda terrorists. One of the most noted was his Imam Answir Al-Awlaki who died in Yemen as a result of a drone strike (youtube video is on him and is impact before becoming deceased). ; It becomes pretty clear that he was an extremist who gradually worked up the courage to do the shooting in the first place. Despite these suspected affiliations (later confirmed as a result of the crime), a simple background check could have also prevented this shooting. Alas, the lack of information in the background because the gun control laws didn't go far enough, also resulted in the deaths of many in the Forts' shooting. Nidal has since been sentenced to death as a result. Source: http://en.wikipedia.org...; http://en.wikipedia.org...; C5: Lawlessness in Society, and Bad Gun Ownership Lets be honest here, every gun owner one meets is a self-reported ""good gun owner"". How many criminals are voluntarily going to give up their guns on the basis of being admittedly ""bad gun owners""? I can't find any research on the matter, so I'm going to speculate none. As for the claim that gun laws will mean less being able to protect oneself. That's a slippery slope argument indicitive of a lawless society. Otherwise, why would we even need a police force if everyone can simply govern themselves? As the Harvard School of Public Health points out, most acts of ""self defence"" are actually illegal as judges have pointed out, even if the story is true and the law was followed, the claim of self defence won't normally hold up. Self defence laws are far more complex than what most people tend to think. Whats the difference between self defence in a situation with a gun owner shooting a criminal, and manslaughter? You have to use other means, and self defence is a last resort. With guns, you make it a first instead. But we don't go into a lawless society. We do expect citizens in distress to call police, and not utilize their guns. Worse yet, when guns were used, it was used as a baragining chip to the situation for more power, not to deescalate the incident. In other words, when more guns come out, the situiation got worse, not better most often times. And few criminals are actually ever shot. When they are, they normally are victims in the eyes of the law than actual perputrators. Source: http://www.hsph.harvard.edu...; Thank you to my opponent for this debate Your turn bud! Good luck!"	CON	33
33	S7a99f4c0-Ad3b1c909	Video games cause violence	Thank you sir, and best of luck to you also. In the past two decades, crime rate has been going down, including violent crimes. Meanwhile, video game sales have been going up dramatically. The violent crime rate has gone down from 1,932,274 crimes in 1992, to 1,203,564 crimes in 2011, showing a drop by about 36500 violent crimes per year. (Source: http://www.fbi.gov...) While that was happening, video game sales has increased rapidly, from close to 2.6 billion dollars in sales in 1996, to about 11.7 billion dollars in 2008. (Source: http://www.forbes.com...) There is yet to be a study that conclusively proves that video games influence people to be violent, and many studies that try to prove it are biased in favor of video games causing violence.	CON	34
34	Seed3e468-A21e7ea4f	poverty is the most important security issue facing Africa	Ethno-religious divides are a bigger security threat	CON	35
35	Seed3e468-A4568e4f	poverty is the most important security issue facing Africa	Society cant function when the population is divided	CON	36
36	Seed3e468-A46f75723	poverty is the most important security issue facing Africa	Poor states have trouble providing security	PRO	37
37	Seed3e468-A71933e50	poverty is the most important security issue facing Africa	Identity issues are very difficult to solve	CON	38
38	Sb17e194f-A6fb6307d	parental irresponsibility is the cause of the high rate of school dropout	"The Con Side accurately reports various factors in why a high school student may drop out prematurely from high school, and yes that is correct. However, what the Con side fails to realize is that those factors he lists from his South African study are still in fact CAUSED by parental irresponsibility. Section 1: Parental Involvement is the Most Paramount Factor to Academic Success Parental involvement is one of the most important contributors to school completion and success. The most accurate predictor of a student’s school achievement is the extent to which his/her family encourages learning. Success is more likely if the family communicates high, yet reasonable, expectations for the student’s education and future career and becomes involved in his/her education. Middle school and high school students whose parents remain involved tend to make better transitions maintain the quality of their work, develop realistic plans for their future, have higher graduation rates, and advance to post secondary education (Clark, 1993; Henderson & Mapp, 2002; Mapp, 2004; Schargel & Smink, 2001; Williams Bost, 2004)[1]. An article from Princeton University[2] also highlights that although there are again various factors that lead to such dropout rates, family intervention is deemed the most decisive factor in determining academic success in a student. “Students' family background greatly affects their educational outcomes and is commonly viewed as the most important predictor of schooling achievement. Among the strongest family domain dropout predictors are parental education, occupation, and income—in other words, socioeconomic status. Although students who need to take a job to help out the family are more likely to drop out of school, Stephen Cameron and James Heckman find that long-run factors associated with parental background and family environment matter the most for students' schooling progress, including graduation from high school."" The Gates Foundation[3] also notes that the level of parental involvement was low in children that did not succeed in high school. In terms of high school drop-out respondents, 59% reported that their parents/guardians were not involved in their schooling, with more than half of those parents who were actually involved were so because of “discipline reasons”. Furthermore, 68% of respondents said their parents had become more interested in the students when they were immediately informed about their child dropping out, indicating the parents were just “not aware”. So this should contest the Con’s argument that parental involvement only accounts for 5%, when it is in fact felt by the vast majority of students who do in fact drop out, which coincides with my thesis that parental involvement is the most prominent factor in academic success. Section 2: Many Other Contributing Factors have a Direct Link to Parental Involvement in Regards to Academic Success The Con side states that there is a ""9:1 ratio"" against absent parents as the cause of high school drop out rates, which is a mostly false statement. Although parental irresponsibility cannot account for all environmental factors, many of the factors that the Con side claimed can be actually traced to absent parents. For example, to take a look at his assertion of “teen pregnancy” as one of the causes, an article from Psychology Today[4] successfully links teen pregnancy with absent fathers. The research states that girls with fathers that left before or up to the age of 5 were 7-8 times more likely to achieve early pregnancy as compared to girls living with their fathers, where a departure between the ages of 6-13 indicates a 2-3 time greater risk. So if the Con side argues for other factors that lead to high school drop out rates, the Con side must also validate that some, perhaps even most, of those factors are highly influenced by the lack of a responsible family environment for the child to thrive in. The Pro side has not said that the lack of parental involvement is solely attributed to the drop out rates, but that addressing this factor as the chief contributor will help promote policies to decrease such dropout rates in our high schools. We can even link this to crime with students with one or more absent parents, or those that are too irresponsible enough to be involved with the student. According to Demuth and Brown, research has shown that “mean levels of delinquency are highest among adolescents residing in single-father families and lowest among adolescent in two-biological-parent married families” [5]. So we can see that when both parents are involved and take an active role in their child’s development, we see that the level of delinquency of a child is reduced. So when the Pro side wonders why children are “engaging in armed robbery, cyber crimes, kidnapping and even prostitution”, it can be clearly seen that the first step in addressing those factors starts with the family. ---------- My next round will be to respond to the next round of the Pro’s argument, and for solutions on making parental responsibility a priority in promoting educational success in our children. Thank you to the Con side for this debate and a great Round 2 References: [1] http://www.ncset.org... [2] http://www.princeton.edu... [3] https://docs.gatesfoundation.org... [4] https://www.psychologytoday.com... [5] http://ejournal.narotama.ac.id..."	PRO	39
39	S3be9f012-A30efa1db	The USFG should ensure the welfare of families living in poverty	Like beem0r, I apologize for missing last round. I've been sick and lost a bit track of the things I kept myself occupied with. :x Now back into the debate: H1: moonlighting is working without ever giving noticing government of the obtained income that way. (not declaring income. it's an official term, was part of the courses economic English I had last year ;)) I do note that my opponent simply states that a smaller wealth gap will reduce crime, but doesn't provide a basis for this assumption. Moonlighting, as said in round 1, will get a greater incentive if you reward people for not earning much. But aside from that, I'm still waiting to see a reasoning established why the wealth gap stimulates crime. H2: It makes sense to note that there are people that don't feel a need to eat healthy. People are less concerned with such things than is often by fiat assumed. I'd like to point to smoking, which is objectively a bad very thing for ones health, but still something that quite some people do. The proposed plan gives the impression that people have to follow the budget advice in order to get the support. (so they'd had to eat healthy) So they'd be (as I said earlier) forced to do things they don't want to. Not quite a positive incentive. Now the wording used in round 4 seems to suggest that people can opt-out, if that'd be the case, there is no real so called stick behind the door, coming along with the benefits. Which would make this end up in being normal welfare support. H3: The point I made was that there is social mobility. (something pointed out by economists like T. Sowell) This was made in the context that if there is decent social mobility, it prevents uprises, not that it was a goal on itself. It's true that this is based on personal assertion, but the claim that the gap induces crime, made by the Pro camp is just as much based on his own assertions. I regret that my opponent skipped the S points, especially S1 needed to be addressed in my opinion, since it clearly points out weaknesses in the practical execution which may lead to this plan ending in abuse. Also the second route that was elaborated, remained untouched by Pro, although it contained criticism on the indicators used to measure advance and made clear that it is near impossible to make better decisions for people than they do for themselves. It's regrettable we both missed a round, this discussion feels like it needs another round to elaborate further. But well, things aren't always our way in life. Thanks for the discussion. Kind regards, Shorack	CON	40
40	S117fcf66-Af0ad4d2a	In an age of consumerism, the primary cause of crime is a greed or desperation to ‘fit in’, or ‘have it all’.	We live in a culture where success and personal achievement is measured on a material scale - what you own, how much you make, what car you drive, what clothes you wear. This means that it is the way society is structured to make us crave material objects which is the primary cause of crime. As society values wealth and material goods over everything else people might turn to crime in order to acquire these much-vaunted markers of personal achievement, to which they feel entitled. Seeing no other avenue for personal and financial success, they might easily choose to get involved in illegal but somewhat profitable activities — like drug dealing, theft or burglary, running prostitution rings, racketeering, etc. However if society was to value traits such as honesty, hard work or loyalty over personal holdings then perhaps the levels of crime would not be so high. 	PRO	41
41	Sf9e149b9-Aa0410d0e	Expiring the Tax Cuts Would Cause Investor Movement Abroad	As mentioned in the previous arguments, the expiration of Bush tax cuts would firstly cause investors and people in the upper brackets to resort to tax avoidance methods, such as placing money in foreign accounts and using legal lacunae to reduce their tax liability.   However in a world where the upper management of most businesses can be handled from other countries, it is prudent for those facing higher taxes in the U.S. to move away to avoid them. Most countries in the U.A.E, for example, have incredibly low tax rates for the entire population.   The reason that many American taxpayers in upper brackets have not moved away to take advantage of this is because the tax cuts and the Republican government have kept them satisfied enough that there is no reason to go through the inconvenience of moving.   The removal of the tax cuts could easily provide this impetus owing to the fact that they might result in further higher taxes for the rich down the line. As such, tax increases of this nature could cause the rich to leave the country and cease paying tax altogether.[1] [1] Bruner, John, “Where America’s Money is Moving,” Forbes, 14/06/2010 http://www.forbes.com/2010/06/14/where-the-rich-are-moving-business-belt...	PRO	42
42	Sb1a6f17a-A3b8648bb	Violence in video games does not significantly contribute to real world violence.	"Thank you debatability for challenging me to this topic. It's been a pleasure. INTRODUCTION I think pro has came at this debate the wrong way. Since the start of round 3 she has been on the defensive, which is really bad. The reason being is because, depending on the judge's voting style she'll typically either have the full burden of proof or at least share it with me. She has spent most of this debate attacking my arguments while barely defending her own and at the end of the day when the dust clears. My arguments still stand and hers have completely fallen. AFFIRMING THE DISJUNCT My opponent claims she hasn't committed this particular logical fallacy, and she is absolutely wrong. She has on multiple occasions stated that video game doesn't significantly contribute to real world violence because poverty does or because videogames cause aggression not violence. What she doesn't realize is that every statement she made could be true and it wouldn't show that violence in videogames doesn't contribute to real world violence. Remember pro has a certain amount of burden to show that videogames in fact do not contribute to real world violence. She hasn't met it. Revisit her arguments. They all make use of the logical fallacy I've mentioned. some arguments from pro; In round 2 pro asks ""What really causes violence in teens?"". She answers this by saying serious crimes and aggression does. The truth is this doesn't rule out violence in videogames being a significant factor. This is her first real argument and is entirely affirming the adjunct. The 2nd argument in round 2 discusses a chart which she admits after posting it means absolutely nothing. her 3rd and final argument discusses "" Video game's effect"". summed up she says that people play video games to release aggression and also that people who love violence may be attracted to them. This is yet another case of Affirming the Adjunct. Just because violent people are attracted to them (which she hasn't proven) and they help release aggression doesn't mean that they don't significantly contribute to real world violence. These are her opening arguments. This is the foundation for her entire case. Her case is a chart she admits doesn't mean anything and 2 arguments affirming the adjunct. She has some BOP in this debate and she has came nowhere near meeting it. NOT BORN TO KILL My opponent misses the point with the government training. I'll take this point by point. PRO-""The first thing to look at here is the difference between video games and these ""killing sessions."" My opponent essentially drops this argument."" I never dropped this argument at all. I attacked it head on. Go ahead to the last round and reread what I said. The differences made in training to up kill rates was a replacement of circle targets with human looking ones. Not only in the shooting range, but also the ones that pop up in simulations. Also video games that soldiers participate in to simulate killing. This is science at it's best, in practice. A bunch of people noticed a problem. The problem was a huge amount of soldiers not killing in battle or police officers not taking out a suspect who is an imminent threat. After seeing the problem, they came up with a hypothesis that if true could help. hypothesis- Simulating killing humans will desensitize people and make them more likely to kill. test- This hypothesis was tested out by replacing shooting range targets with human shaped targets and the popup targets in simulations with human looking pop up targets. Also some videogames were added in. repeat- This test was repeated with several government organizations and proved successful. That is the scientific method and the scientific method is common knowledge so I won't cite it. The scientific method has proven that simulating violence causes people to be more likely to act on violence. Videogames simulate violence. Those simulated experiences desensitize people to violence and makes it more likely that they'll commit acts of violence. "" The reason firing rates went up is because of the implementation of a method known as ""point shooting."" This is a new argument and should be completely disregarded, but I will briefly touch on it. My studies have shown that people in the civil war weren't even firing their weapons but only pretending. I can buy that point shooting will increase accuracy in close combat situations, but it isn't increasing the percentage of people pulling the trigger. DESENSITIZE ME ""My opponent points out some flaws in my desensitization study."" Yes, and I urge voters took look at the prior round to see those flaws. None of them have been addressed. ""1. My opponent's study has multiple variables since it involves the actual playing of a video game. Essentially, the competition factor is very present in this study. There is no way of knowing whether the violence, the desensitization, or the competition caused the willingness to push the button."" It wasn't the competition that caused it. There was a close to an even number on each side. Half being avid violent video game players. Half not being. They all participated in the competition, so it's not a factor. The violent gamers were more willing to dish out physical pain to their opponent. They all participated in the game. If competition was the only factor than significant differences should not have been noticed in their willingness to dish out pain. The study proved that people who play violent videogames have less qualms about hurting you. That part is indisputable and has been shown in several similar studies. ""We can't look to a study with multiple variables that shows, at best, a correlation rather than a causation. My study further weakens this point by disproving the correlation between desensitization and violence in video games."" I've shown the flaws in your study, and they were ignored. I welcome the voters to take another look at the previous round. The study alone may be brushed away as correlation, but when taken with all the other evidence It serves as some damning evidence in my favor. DR BRUCE What I've tried to get across to the voters as well as my opponent, is that Violent video games contribute significantly to an overall culture of violence. In the famous Kitty Genovese event what is known as the bystander effect took place. Though the concept known as diffusion of responsibility certainly played a factor it wasn't the only factor. As Dr. Bruce mentions in the article I cited. Growing up in rough urban environments can cause desensitization, just like videogames. A lot of people just didn't give a damnn if that girl was being murdered outside their windows. CONCLUSION My opponent hasn't really upheld her BOP in this debate. She is attacking my arguments but not doing enough to defend her own. I should win this debate, because I've proved that violent videogames have increased state violence. I should win, because I've shown it increases not only the likelihood somebody will engage in violence, but also that it contributes to a culture of violence. My opponent has largely ignored my arguments concerning the overall culture of violence and psychopathy. For all the reasons mentioned."	CON	43
43	Sabaa6f17-A1f039fdc	Gun control does not reduce crime (USA only)	R1: Correlation is not Causation My opponent agrees that correlation is not causation in his R3. Yet it continues to be argued that a statistically significant relationship exists, but the factors between the two states that differentiate one another remain unaccounted for. Again, correlation is not causation. The information is anecdotal in nature. That's awesome that we can compare two states, but what makes them similar enough, minus the one variable that needs to be changed (in this case gun laws) to be able to compare them? It seems as though the two states compared are cherry-picked, rather than done to control the other variables (poverty for instance) to show a relationship. R2: Hawaii vs New Hampshire My opponent compares these two states, and claims that homicide rates differ: the tighter gun regulated state has more homicides than the non-gun regulated one. Except, with all due respect to my opponent, again this is anecdotal. Homicides can be committed with a wide variety of tools. Knives, vehicles, fists, etc... can all be used in a homicide. Even if we take this relationship at face value, it does not show that gun-related crimes are somehow more desirable in a more gun friendly state than vice-verse. Again, correlation is not causation. R3: Psychopaths by Nature Lack Empathy/Fear My opponent cites response times in the Virginia Tech Shooting as justification for a more armed populace. Fair enough, however even if the school had armed guards, it would not have mattered. That's because psychopaths, literally by virtue of being a psycho, lack empathy and fear by their actions. That's part of the purpose of being diagnosed with being a psychopath in the first place. Furthermore, my opponents argument means taking the actions of a shooter, and making vigilante justice happen. While police are certainly not perfect, the police by nature are suppose to enforce the law. The very purpose of their being. The claim that police cannot always help ignores the fact that no one can ever be somewhere in an emergency fast enough, and that the argument itself is a slippery slope to lawlessness. If police are never fast enough, why even have a police force? As for my claims, I showed with two cases (Fort Hood and Naval Yard) that if background checks (a form of gun control) went farther, those shootings could have been prevented. When a shooter is able to legally purchase a gun, even though he thought microwaves could talk to him, we have a serious issue here. Source: http://en.wikipedia.org... R4: Source Issues For some weird reason, DDO coding is not giving my opponent the proper coding to see the sources. I'll repost them here: http://smartgunlaws.org... https://www.kellogg.northwestern.edu... As for my Harvard Health source, it actually does link each study in a peer-reviwed journal showing without question causation links between gun crimes and relaxed gun control laws. The main reason behind it is simple: guns are emotionally empowering. When guns are used in a “self defence” claim, the Harvard Journals pointed out that most folks used them ended up escalating violence instead of stopping it. Worse yet, it almost always was done illegally in the first place. Source: http://www.hsph.harvard.edu... Even in cases where one claims self defence, how do we know? No one actually wants to go to jail (unless they do not care of consequences) ergo we must look ourselves with an objective eye. What we see...isn't good. Its rather frightening. Furthermore, my opponent claims it only shows higher rates of suicide. That isn't true. It clearly shows higher rates of both suicide and homicide. Otherwise, here is another study proving my point further: https://www.kellogg.northwestern.edu... R5: Cases Here my opponent conceeds that if background checks (a form of gun regulation) were to have been furthered, both the Fort Hood Shooting and Naval Yard Shooting would have been prevented. In fact, he almost furthers my case: Hasan had people investigating him, same with Alexis. The failure of the military and FBI to deem them unfit for weapons carry results in them gaining and utilizing their arms. Other factors were an issue here (personal psychology) however, in both cases, both were displaying troubling behaviour, which caught attention, and no one decided to act on it. This argument highlights why gun control needs to go further. They both had guns, and should not have been able to aquire them, and if they were unable to have posessed those weapons in the first place, the crisis could have been averted. Worse yet, personally, I cannot think of a more bold move than having a shooting right where the military is. Literally, the most armed group one can find. If the logic of my opponent was correct, this would never have happened, as the military is most heavily armed. It still happened regardless. In particularly bold fashion too for both cases. R6: Causation I just wanted to remind everyone reading his, that causation can be established through several methods when statistical significance is shown. If we were to roll dice over 100 times, we would have an equitable distribution among numbers, meaning no statistical significance is shown (its falling where its suppose to with chance). If thew dice were loaded, then statistical significance would appear, thus showing something is up with the data, the distribution isn't being hit, and thus we have to examine the dice. My Harvard studies show statistical significance with gun control. Its pretty clear: less guns, less crime. http://en.wikipedia.org... Meta analysis on the issue: http://jonathanstray.com...; And for your comedic pleasure. Please enjoy this (funny) comedian take on gun control. Cheers guys! (source: ) Over to my opponent	CON	44
44	Sfffd366c-Ad5bb9195	Being Religious in America: Does Not Make You More Likely To Commit Crimes.	I agree somewhat, there are many factors that may come in to play. I think when religious groups try to suggest atheists are going to be bad because they don't have a fixed moral code from God that is ignoring the evidence. Bad does not usually happen because someone does not have a God based moral code. There are many factors that might come into play. Drugs, bad role models, etc. On the flip side, the fact that there are many registered Christians in US prisons does not prove that religion makes them more bad. Just that there are many more Christians in the general population and thus are likely to also be a big chunk of the prison population.	PRO	45
45	S96ec5615-A1f34d241	"""Hate Crimes"" should not be a factor in the administration of justice"	"First, let me get some definitions out of the way. Crime - an action or an instance of negligence that is deemed injurious to the public welfare or morals or to the interests of the state and that is legally prohibited. Hate crime – Said to occur when a victim is targeted because of a perceived membership in a certain social group (of race, gender, age, etc.) I'll introduce a term here that I will use quite often in my contention. Balance in society – A situation wherein every member of society is ""adequately"" compensated for any injury (physical, mental, economical, psychological, etc.) caused by other members, such that it does not further cause injuries to any other member, other than the prime injuring party. Of course adequately might mean different things for different injured parties, but I think we can work with the normal sense of the word. (If my opponent is not satisfied with these definitions, he is free to define them in his own way.) I'll begin. Whenever a crime is committed, there is an injured party. This may consist of one or more individuals, affected directly or indirectly, immediately or over a period of time. This may cause the injured parties to take immediate steps towards addressing this issue. The usual homily is ""an eye for an eye"", but things could go wrong in so many ways during the taking of that criminal eye. To ensure that this does not happen, society has put a law and order machinery in place. Every member of society is expected to buy into this impartial arbiter who will decide, in due course of law, how exactly to provide reparations to the injured parties. For purposes of this debate, I'll substitute society for the law and order machinery, since society has created this instrument to better serve its own purpose (insofar as society is said to have a purpose.) C1. Justice is about maintaining balance by fair compensation Whenever there is talk of crime, invariably there will be talk of justice. How will justice be served? An eye for an eye sounds good, but only if the concerned individuals are living in isolation. As long as they are part of a society, every discordant act has effects for all members of society and cannot be treated on an individual basis. Society should be (and is) more concerned with finding a correct balance so that it can continue functioning smoothly, rather than with delivering justice. True justice is impossible for human faculties to deliver. Only fair compensation can be sought. C2. Crime = Creation of imbalance. Justice = Restoration of balance For example, it might be called justice for a victim of murder to have his murderer dead. But from the point of view of society, having lost a contributing member, it doesn't make sense for it to lose the ""services"" of another. It is better served by having the murderer continue performing services for it (in a controlled manner, by restricting his freedom, taking steps to rehabilitate, reform him); maybe even the share of the lost member. But such an act might cause the well-wishers of the victim to ""decrease their output"" (due to a reduction in their mental well-being), so this should be done in a manner that they feel adequately compensated. Thus, balance has been achieved, in a way. C3. Greater the imbalance, greater the effort needed to restore balance In light of this view of crime, justice and society, let's take a look at the motives of crime and their effects. If the motive of the crime was money, revenge, food or such ""normal"" issues, this would affect only the involved individuals, or a very small part of society. Such crimes are indicators of society's well-being. (Crimes for money – poverty, crimes of revenge – an inefficient law and order machinery, crimes for food – hunger, etc.) It might be worthwhile for society to treat the symptoms than to cull the effect. Also, human life has to be held in high regard and all possible steps have to be taken to preserve it. Of course, the injured parties may not be concerned with all these, but society has to draw a line somewhere as to what is adequate compensation. (For example, an individual might think it's only fair to take the life of a person who ""misbehaved"" with his daughter.) However, if the crime was a hate crime, quite a large stratum of society (the specific social group to which the victim belongs) is affected, other than the concerned individuals. Their well-being will be diminished if they feel threatened. Thus, in order to achieve balance here, a larger group of people have to be adequately compensated as they too are a party to the injury (although indirectly) (Also, as we saw in the definition of crime, public welfare is a factor). If this means a greater punishment for the perpetrator, so be it. If that ensures the proper functioning of a greater number of people, it's a fair trade for society. This is why any crime that has a ""terror quotient"" deserves a stricter punishment, as the injured parties' number in large groups. However, if society deals differently towards each ""group"" of injured parties, that would also create a loss of balance. It has to be fair in its dealings. Summary Thus, every crime should be dealt with according to its magnitude, crimes of a similar nature should be dealt with in an equal manner and victims should be compensated adequately in such a manner that the balance in society is maintained. As hate crime creates a larger imbalance in society, it should be approached differently and SHOULD be a factor while administrating ""justice""."	CON	46
46	Sabaa6f17-A8355f422	Gun control does not reduce crime (USA only)	Rebutalls R1: Correlation is not Causation I’m not sure what Pro is trying to say here. When I compared Hawaii and New Hampshire, I made sure that other variables such as poverty, income was very similar to each other so that when I compared both of the states. So In my opinion, me comparing the two states made sense. R2: Hawaii vs New Hampshire This comes to my other point. Since Hawaii’s homicide rate is higher than New Hampshire, it proves that gun control didn’t prevent overall crime from happening, because criminals resorted to other methods. Lets look at more in depth look at how many people were actually killed by guns in Hawaii. Out of the 24 murders that occurred in 2010, guns did only 7 of them. If I compare that to New Hampshire, it had a total of 13 murders in 2010, and 5 were committed by guns. So, yes if I look at it by %, You’re less likely to be killed by a gun, but that doesn’t necessarily mean you won’t be killed at all. Remember, I’m trying to prove that gun control did not reduce crime, not gun crime. I’d like my opponent to know that I didn’t try to nitpick a bad example, as Hawaii’s has to lowest homicide rate, among states with strict gun control. So I feel like this was a good comparison. R3: Psychopaths by Nature Lack Empathy/Fear Pro is saying that the right to self-defense should be revoked, because we have law enforcement to deal with the threat. My point wasn’t to say that we should get rid of police, but rather to take measures to reduce causalities as much as possible. If CCW owners were allowed to carry guns, there could have been a chance to reduce the causalities. To address the Fort Hood and Naval Yard shootings, my job was to prove that gun control did not reduce crime, and in these cases it didn’t. Pro however conceded that gun control failed in this case, and is insisting that had gun control gone further, there might have been a chance to stop the shooter. The problem with this argument is that Pro never specified how gun control could have gone further. In the Naval Yard shootings, Alexis was deemed mentally fit to wield a gun. If Pro is insisting that the gun seller or the employer should have done a better job, there is no way people could regulate that, because gun sellers who are assessing buyers are indeed human, and humans cannot be 100% perfect. R4: Lawlessness in Society, and Bad Gun Ownership So I said I would refute Pro’s argument so here it is. According to this source, High gun ownershi	PRO	47
47	S7a99f4c0-A4b28fe73	Video games cause violence	"I would like to commend you for a very good argument for round 2! As for your statements ""First of all, video games are addictive. A study and discussion by the American Medical Association discussed the fact that video game addiction (VGA) was a real and prominent issue in the health of many Americans."" Soon after the meeting that the AMA had in 2007, they retracted their statement on the matter, and many addiction experts were strongly against the notion that video game addiction should be considered a real addiction. (Sources: http://uk.reuters.com..., http://www.theguardian.com...) ""Video games > Video game addiction > stress, depression, and mental health issues > domestic violence."" I must point out an issue in this reasoning. This statement you have made make the impression that you think that video game addiction leads to stress, depression, and mental health issues. In fact, many experts believe that stress is a major factor leading to video game addiction (and a big one too). (Source: http://www.healthxchange.com.sg...) ""I will argue that violence in games normalizes violence in real life and teaches children, teenagers, and adults the basics of shooting"" Many studies have also shown that violent video games do not desensitize kids and those most liable to have their minds altered. The studies would show kids who play non-violent and violent games different pictures, some showing graphic scenes (like a man holding a gun to a woman's head). The subjects would have their reactions to the photos monitored and recorded. They found that there was no difference between the violent game players' and non-violent game players' reactions. Many kids recognize and respect the boundaries between the virtual and real world, and would not cross them when it comes to violence. (Sources: http://health.usnews.com..., http://gamepolitics.com...) As to the specific cases, there is no proof that Adam Lanza, Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold, and other mass murderers like them were influenced by video games. Studies have shown that many video games can be calming, and that huge amounts of people use video games to calm down and relax. They see it as a way to escape the harsh realizations of reality and to enjoy themselves. The cases of violence related to video games are minuscule in number, and usually are more because the perpetrator has a mental illness than because of the video games themselves. May I wish you good luck, and Merry Christmas!"	CON	48
48	S7a99f4c0-Aa61e3658	Video games cause violence	I will extend all my arguments.	CON	49
49	S7a99f4c0-Ab44ee11	Video games cause violence	I will extend all my arguments. (I'm kicking myself in the rear because of my awful 2nd round! XD)	CON	50
50	Sf9e149b9-Ad3c4ba4	Expiring Tax Cuts Would Cause a Double Dip Recession	Whilst the rich spend proportionately less of their income than the poor, the rest of their income is often invested in other areas and financial vehicles, boosting the economy in both the short and long term. In the short term this money allows businesses to take more risks owing to a greater pool of money to offset the risk, alongside lower interest rates. In the long term, these risks often lead to innovations that help the economy overall.   In increasing the tax burden on the rich, the spending and investment that wealthy individuals partake in is cut off, preventing these areas of the economy from growing. Recessions and recession prevention are often reliant upon public perception of an economy’s general health and the extent of its exposure to less stable economies. Due to this feedback mechanism, it is possible, therefore, that an unfounded belief that tax rises could obstruct economic growth might cause panic amongst the media and the populace. A recession might come about through the mere expectation that there will be a recession.   In fact, given that the majority of the media is controlled by the rich, it is within their best interest to report that there will be a crisis if there is a tax increase so that they can claim the policy was at fault in the future.[1] [1] Vaughan, Martin and Mckinnon, John, “Democrats Dissent on Bush Cuts,” Wall Street Journal http://online.wsj.com/article/NA_WSJ_PUB:SB10001424052748703954804575381...	PRO	51
51	Sb1a6f17a-Ab372f529	Violence in video games does not significantly contribute to real world violence.	"Thank you Wylted for your arguments. I'll go ahead and attack each of my opponent's claims. Trained to Kill Here, my opponent basically explains the arguments that he will run during the debate. He brings up two points: 1. Kids are desensitized by playing video games. 2. This desensitization contributes to violence. By the end of this debate, I aim to prove both of these things untrue. Not Born to Kill For this point, my opponent explains that humans do not like killing. He gives an example of the kill rates before and after the beginning of training soldiers with killing simulations he claims that are similar to some of the video games played today. Here is why this argument doesn't hold up. Firstly, we have to realize that these killing simulations are not as similar to the popular video games children play as my opponent makes them out to be. Shooting targets while listening to ""kill kill kill"" over and over in one's head is more likely to result in acts of violence than popular video games such as Call of Duty and Grand Theft Auto. Gilsdorf explains, ""They offer a hunt/shoot/kill scenario as a way to solve problems (1)."" So we see that today's violent video games provide a scenario that involves thinking and problem solving rather than just repetitive killing. Another thing to look at is the various factors involved in this killing simulation besides violence. Ultimately, a system that rewards points will lead to some degree of competition. This is part of what may have caused the added motivation from the soldiers to kill. It may seem a bit extreme to suggest that competition leads to violence (or in the case of the military, murder). Psychology Today explains, ""Competition among men leads to a high level of violence (murder, assault, and battery) among them (2)."" Essentially, men are motivated to be more violent due to various sources of competition (such as women or sports). Killing simulations that promote competition can have the same effect. So, it may not necessarily be the violence in the simulations that made the kill rates go up; it could be the competitive factor. Desensitize Me My opponent begins by explaining that video games desensitize individuals. However, from a psychological standpoint, this is not necessarily the case. A study was conducted by Reyerson University. Two large groups (active gamers and non-gamers) were shown various images with good, bad, and neutral connotations. Many of these images could be considered violent. It was hypothesized that the gamers would be less sensitive to the bad pictures, especially the violent ones. However, it turned out that both groups had similar reactions. Bowen notes at the end of the experiment, ""The findings indicate that long-term emotional memory is not affected by chronic exposure violent video games (3)."" My opponent's next point brings up various figures of authority who support the idea that video games significantly contribute to real world violence. This is a common logical fallacy known as appeal to authority. Just because someone important believes something, doesn't mean that the belief is correct. This point ultimately falls because no evidence is provided as to *why* these people support con's stance. Looking at my opponent's last point, we can see a study is cited that is rather similar to mine above. There are a couple problems with this study: 1. The sample size is very small. 30 people (probably 15 gamers and 15 non gamers) is not enough to measure whether or not video games desensitize (or cause violence). 2. This study involves a large amount of competition. This is what really makes this study invalid. The competition is what could really be promoting the regular gamers to push the button. When constantly being exposed to competition via video games, one is more likely to show aggression, as I have proven in my constructive. So, rather than the aggression being caused by video game violence / desensitization, it is caused by the regular competition provided by video games. Dr. Bruce My opponent addresses some claims made by Dr. Bruce Perry; I'll go ahead and cover each the claims that are relevant to this debate. 1. Desensitization causes violence (desensitization comes from video games). I'll begin by cross applying my point that explains how video games do not result in desensitization. What I'm going to focus on is the claim that desensitization causes violence. Let's take a look at exactly what desensitization is. It can be defined as, ""the potential for reduced responsiveness to actual violence caused by exposure to violence in the media."" So, desensitization (if indeed caused by video games) results in reduced responsiveness to actual violence, not violent crimes themselves. For this point to stand, my opponent must prove that (a) video games actually desensitize individuals and (b) desensitization significantly contributes to violence. 2. Video games help kids become efficient killers. Now, I would agree to an extent that video games are a way of teaching kids how to handle various combat situations. However, this does not mean that such a game will give kids the desire to use an actual gun. I'd like to bring up my point about releasing aggression from my constructive: ""Logically, if violence in video games makes inmates less violent, they won't have an opposite affect when it comes to kids."" If children are interested it weapons and violence, it is much better to allow them to play video games than to let them store up such aggressive feelings up to the point where they can gain access to a real weapon. My first source continues, ""If some of these men are hopelessly mentally ill, then we need to do all we can to prevent their access to real guns. But sane or depressed, many men feel powerless. Many feel angry. Many feel disengaged. They just want a stake in the action. Video games might be the best outlet they’ve got (1)."" My opponent ends this point by explaining that video games are effective in teaching by showing an example of a man who saved lives using a technique he learned in a video game. The problem with this point is that it actually has nothing to do with video games teaching violent practices. The given video game in this example has promoted something useful, as opposed to violence. Fact or Fiction This last point does nothing to further my opponent's case. My opponent explains that a large amount of people cannot tell the difference between reality and fantasy saying that, ""These people are at particular risk of going too far after being pushed (by video games)."" I have proved through my rebuttal that video games don't actually give this extra push; rather, they can discourage it in some cases (through aggression release). To sum everything up... The violence in video games isn't what actually causes violence. What really causes violence is various factors such as delinquent peers, depression, abusive family, and (as I have stressed on in my rebuttal) competition. Video games can give already aggressive individuals a way to release their aggression. Surprisingly, video games don't actually cause desensitization; moreover, desensitization hasn't been proven to cause violence. For these reasons, I am pro. (1) http://cognoscenti.wbur.org... (2) http://www.psychologytoday.com... (3) http://www.newswise.com... (4) Freedman, J.L. (2003). Media Violence and its effect on aggression: assessing the scientific evidence. Canada: University of Toronto Press Incorporated."	PRO	52
52	S6f7068a6-A5b2b16bf	Hate crime enhancements cause inter-community tensions	By defining crimes as being committed by one group against another, rather than as being committed by individuals against their society, the labelling of crimes as “hate crimes” causes groups to feel persecuted by one another, and that this impression of persecution can incite a backlash and thus lead to an actual increase in crime.(1) These effects spread beyond the hate crimes themselves. By prosecuting high-profile cases of white hate crimes against blacks, for example, it encourages blacks to see themselves as part of a distinct community different from the white community and whose relations are marked by crimes committed by one against the other. This is especially true when one community seems to perpetrate more hate crime (or at least more convictions thereof are secured) against another community than visa-versa. An analysis of hate crime date from the USA examining how hate crimes against whites are viewed with respect to hate crimes against blacks has  hypothesised that the prevailing view in the minds of the public is that the crime that whites are most likely to commit against blacks is a hate crime, and that it is hard for most Americans to envision a white person committing a crime against a black person for a different reason. The only white people who commit crimes against black people, goes the public belief, are racially prejudiced white extremists, and in contrast the very idea of hate crimes committed against whites is met with scepticism and disbelief.(2) There have been several high-profile cases in the USA where some individuals have argued actual hate crimes against whites were not treated as such as a consequence of such public disbelief.(3) This can lead to an unjust situation where hate crime enhancements are (or are perceived as being) only applied “against” one community by another, despite hate crimes actually being committed by individuals within both communities against other individuals. Therefore hate crime enhancements are unjust.	PRO	53
53	S6f7068a6-A4bd2f54d	Hate crime enhancements cause inter-community tensions	In almost every case where hate crimes are committed, the communities involved already perceive themselves as distinct and opposed, mostly because they already believe that their communities have been sundered by structural inequalities and hate-motivated crimes. Simply ignoring hate crimes will not make these communities stop perceiving them. Rather, it could lead to some communities feeling that their concerns and grievances are not being properly addressed, and lead to more inter-community violence as they seek to ensure 'justice' is done by their own hands.	CON	54
54	Sc48592d0-Ae7cfd2c7	Libertarians are right on crime-- No gun control laws an no victimless crimes	"I must admit, the argument from my opponent was far more formidable than I was expecting. CON I: ""Prohibition effect"" Let's talk for a bit about the prohibition effect. This is the effect where illegalizing something increases its usage, and makes it more dangerous. Let's think for a moment about WHY prohibition did what it did to the alcohol moment. Before 1920, Alcohol was legal. And then, suddenly, the government decided to take that away from the people. THIS is what caused the prohibition effect. That is to say, while the initial generation might rebel against the new law, each suceeding generation will conform more and more, and eventually, the overall effect will be a good one. People don't react well when the government suddenly tells them ""You can't do this,"" but they accept it a lot more easily if they've been raised by the media and their parents to accept that they cannot do whatever it is (especially if there are harsh consequences to doing the thing). Thus, while the illegalization of prostitution/gambling/drugs may be a bad thing in the short run, in the long run, it actually ends up having a positive effect. Since there are likely no figures to support me, I've just used reasoning to do it for me. CON II: ""Prostitution / Casinos lessen productivity"" There are a great many things that actually make America more prosperous. Most jobs help accomplish this, while some service industries simply don't help our standing within the global economy. Gambling and prostitution are among these service industries. Most jobs help create or maintain something we can trade with other nations. Most service industries increase the standard of living of Americans by giving them a new service. HOWEVER this is hardly the case for Prostitution and Gambling. Prostitution doesn't benefit anyone who's in a committed relationship, and it actually lessens the incentive for people to seek out a committed relationship. Since committed relationships are a huge investment in the future [brings healthy, well-adjusted kids and stable, happy, working parents, etc.]. Basically, it helps productivity in the long run for Prostitution to not be as common or easily available. And gambling certainly doesn't help society. For some, it throws them into a cycle of poverty, and for some few others, it allows them to reap a large amount of wealth without contributing anything to society. This overall lowers productivity. People in the first group are left more often begging, gambling their money away, etc. rather than finding a stable job they can be productive in. Their mind is on gambling, not on what they should be doing. And for those others, they no longer have the incentive to find a productive job, since they already have a fat stack of cash. Thus productivity suffers. And with it, society too. Other service industries tend to not make people less productive. For instance, a barber. He cuts your hair, you give him some money. That's it. There's nothing inherent in what a barber or a McDonal's floor mopper does that makes people less productive. CON III: Response to ""Our police could be stopping thefts and murders, crimes with victims, instead of entrapping workers who are making people happy and not hurting anyone at all."" A> They DO stop thefts and murders. B> I have shown that prostitutes are hurting society, by removing an incentive to find a committed partner by being completely useless for anyone who's in a committed relationship. Since our society thrives with committed relationships, this is decidedly bad for society in the long run. CON IV: ""Drugs"" My opponenet claims that the prisons are filled with drug dealers, but also claims that law enforcement is ineffective against drugs, and it would be no easier to get them if they were legal. As my opponent has shown, a VAST number of people get arrested every year for drug possession or drug dealing. Let's think about what that means with some reasoning. A> The use of drugs is detrimental to society. B> Many people who use drugs are penalized for it. C> People who are penalized, by having to pay fees and/or getting misdemeanors, will be less successful in life, and less likely to have children. D> From B and C, people who don't do drugs will have more children on average than people who do do drugs. E> This leads to drug-using being slowly eliminated from society. Not only that, but we can cross-apply CON I here. Thus, there will be a long-run trend away from drug use if it remains illegal, for both these reasons. Also, consider that all these fees and such that are paid for drug possession go to the government. Thus, they usually end up at least paying for their own burden on the system. And if it's not quite enough to pay for it, the fees could be increased. That would be a better plan. Also, consider that drug dealers/users are often killed in the status quo over drugs, which leads to an even less drug-prevalent future. Also, Amsterdam is a very different place than the USA. Simply showing that Amsterdam has lower drug usage than the US does not show that the drug policies are the cause. Association does not imply causation. What would be much better in showing causation would be a study comparing Amsterdam's drug usage pre-legalization and post-legalization. CON V: Conclusion Response I have shown that prohibition does indeed work, just not in the short run. [CON I] I have shown that prohibitions are not always costly, since they generate income [CON IV] While prohibition might usually cause crime, it only does so in the short run, which is insignificiant in the big picture. It matters not what America is rooted on. That is an appeal to false authority. Just because the constitution says X, or the founding fathers would say X, does not mean X is right. I have argued why prohibiting certain 'victimless crimes' is a good practice."	CON	55
55	Sb1a6f17a-Ad4f213d5	Violence in video games does not significantly contribute to real world violence.	"There is possibly some things I didn't bother to clarify enough in my arguments. Particularly how desensitization caused by violent video games leads to an increase in violence outside of a military setting. I'll get to that and we should be crystal clear after that. Another thing I'll be hitting on is a logical fallacy my opponent has been using, which is basically her entire argument. AFFIRMING A DISJUNCT My opponents logical fallacy is called affirming a disjunct. Affirming a disjunct would look like this: Either A or B since A it's not B. Or if I wanted to write a more easy to understand example, here it is: Me or Debatability are debating. Since Debatability is debating it must mean I'm not. Anyway I'm not the best at writing examples, so if you're confused read the link that I'm using as a citation to prove my opponent's logical fallacy. http://www.fallacyfiles.org... Here is how my opponent has used this logical fallacy. ""A common argument against violence in video games is that violence in video games cause aggression. This is actually not the case. Carol Pichefsky notes that aggression is not caused by violent video games; rather, it is caused by a competitive environment "" This doesn't prove that violent video games don't significantly contribute to real world violence. It merely shows that competition contributes significantly to real world violence. Both desensitization and competition can contribute significantly to real world violence. This isn't one of those either or situations. Competition is a huge reason for violence. If this weren't the case than evolution would have never occurred. VIOLENCE RATES The chart my opponent provided isn't really well cited. I can't pull up what those numbers even mean is it a chart showing international or national video games sales and crime? It doesn't even matter. Violent video games can contribute significantly to real world violence, while the crime rate decreases. The chart really just boils down to correlation stats as opposed to causation stats. VIDEO GAME'S EFFECTS ""Studies suggest that video games give individuals an outlets to release aggression; there was a study done on inmates. An observer notes ""If you give them video games, they""ll be less likely to start fights. So once a week we""d hook up a bunch of TVs in a classroom so all of the murderers and rapists could play Halo. There""s nothing more interesting than seeing guys who have killed multiple people deathmatching each other"""" The article referenced no such studies of inmates. The quote my opponent grabbed was on cited from an author of a cracked.com article. It's just a funny story a former prison guard was recounting. The article did cite a few articles that showed some positive effects of violent video games, but none showed a decrease in aggression or violence as a result of playing them. NOT BORN TO KILL ""Killing simulations that promote competition can have the same effect. So, it may not necessarily be the violence in the simulations that made the kill rates go up; it could be the competitive factor."" You miss the point these are training exercises and according to the research you've provided aggression is only increased for a short period after the competitive endeavor. The competition on the shooting range is always going to be there regardless of whether the target is shaped like a human or like a dart board with the red circle in the middle. According to my opponents own research showing that aggression only increases for a short period of time after competition, we must assume something else is going on there. I say and the research suggests it's desensitization. It's easier to shoot a real person when you've simulated the event 100s of times and have gotten rid of that natural repulsion of doing so. DESENSITIZE ME My opponent brings up a study that. Contradicts mine and suggests that very little if any desensitization occurs. Let's examine this study closer. ""The study involved 122 male and female undergraduate students who fell into two categories: 45 participants who had some video game experience within the last six months and 77 students who reported no video game exposure."" http://www.newswise.com... The students were asked this question on a survey. (Probably more, but relevant to this debate) 1. Have you played a video game within the last 6 months? So how many of these students only played 1 game the previous 6 months? How many had had less than 3 total hours of videogaming those 6 months? How many of the non videogames players were exposed to a ton of other forms of violent media, such as slasher flicks? These types of studies need to have participants chosen more carefully. The study I showed uses people that play videogames a lot vs people that play rarely or if at all. It's a far better indicator of the effects of violent videogames. The study I've shown indicates that a lot of exposure to violent videogames makes it more likely that somebody will pull the trigger. ""2. This study involves a large amount of competition. This is what really makes this study invalid. The competition is what could really be promoting the regular gamers to push the button. When constantly being exposed to competition via video games, one is more likely to show aggression, as I have proven in my constructive. So, rather than the aggression being caused by video game violence / desensitization, it is caused by the regular competition provided by video games."" The study I've shown though small indicates that exposure to a lot of videogames caused participants to be less concerned about the well being of their opponents. My opponents studies have shown that aggression is only temporarily increased due to exposure of competitive videogames. The study I linked to shows an increased willingness to pull the trigger. So something other than the temporary increase of aggression must be considered. That something is desensitization, as indicated by the decreased response to violent imagery. DR. BRUCE "" So, desensitization (if indeed caused by video games) results in reduced responsiveness to actual violence, not violent crimes themselves. For this point to stand, my opponent must prove that (a) video games actually desensitize individuals and (b) desensitization significantly contributes to violence."" What desensitization does isn't necessarily cause people who aren't predisposed to violence to become violent. It actually contributes significantly to a culture of violence. Psychopaths are about 1% of the population and have a lack of concern for other individuals. They also make up over 30% of the prison population. http://news.uchicago.edu... The 1% number is on the conservative end as well. Some psychologists have them at 4% of the population. These people will slice your throat and not feel an ounce of guilt about it the next day. Most of them probably won't do that, but they still account for a disproportionate amount if the violent crime taking place in the United States. Common sense tells you that with an increase in apathy about violence going on right in front of your face that more people inclined to commit violent acts will feel free to do so. We have what's called the bystander effect that occurs all the time and we keep seeing. New cases of it on television all the time. http://m.psychologytoday.com... Bystander effect is actually where witnesses to a violent crime, do nothing to stop it or alert authorities to the situation. Sure some of this is caused by fear, but a large amount is caused by apathy. People just aren't bothered watching a man knock a woman's teeth out and take her purse. Psychopaths now feel safe committing violent acts in front of others due to the bystander effect. Another violent trend taking place across the United States is called ""The Knockout Game"". This is where a group of kids go around punching people as hard as they can in hopes of knocking them out. The targets are usually little old ladies or other defenseless people. http://newyork.cbslocal.com... All it takes is one psychopath leading a bunch of desensitized teens just wanting to fit in, and committing the act of violence in front of a mixed crowd of desensitized and scared people. Half scared to step in the other half just isn't bothered by it. Desensitization creates a culture of violence. It makes people inclined to violence more likely to be violent and contributes by making violence less repulsive and by extension more acceptable. ""The violence in video games isn't what actually causes violence. What really causes violence is various factors such as delinquent peers, depression, abusive family, and (as I have stressed on in my rebuttal) competition. Video games can give already aggressive individuals a way to release their aggression. Surprisingly, video games don't actually cause desensitization; moreover, desensitization hasn't been proven to cause violence."" Those things mentioned are certainly factors, but just as important a those things is the culture of violence caused by desensitization. I've already proven that violent simulations (aka videogames) contribute to more violence on the part of the government and. If we look at the numbers to see how many deaths the government participates in, we can see that is a huge number. I've also shown that the desensitization caused by violent video games contributes significantly in direct and indirect ways."	CON	56
56	Sabaa6f17-A636ad245	Gun control does not reduce crime (USA only)	I will be arguing that gun bans do not reduce crime in the United States of America. My opponent will argue that it does. Good Luck	PRO	57
57	Sfffd366c-A30674d30	Being Religious in America: Does Not Make You More Likely To Commit Crimes.	Some religions say crime is ok like killing or other crimes.	CON	58
58	Sfffd366c-A949e181	Being Religious in America: Does Not Make You More Likely To Commit Crimes.	No doubt there are religious people who encourage or justify crimes via religion. Most religious people are not committing serious crimes like murder though and most of the people who do commit crimes would not be doing it because of religion.	PRO	59
59	Sc47177f2-A169c4ff9	Adolf Hitler Does Not Deserve His Reputation as Evil	Does it all revolve around the Jewish People?	PRO	60
60	Sc48592d0-Ad1833955	Libertarians are right on crime-- No gun control laws an no victimless crimes	"I: ""Prohibition effect"" >>> each suceeding generation will conform more and more +++ This is a foolish, unproven assumption. I have given multiple examples of how prohibition fails. The Harrison Act passed in 1914 to lower and eventually stop drug use. The War on Drugs started in 1972. Drugs are still prevalent in the United States. Prostitution has been illegal in almost all individual states since about 1910. Prostitution still often occurs in the United States. Gambling started going under fire in the 1800s. Gambling is still widely rampant. II and III: ""Prostitution / Casinos lessen productivity"" >>> [Prostitution and gambling are untradeable and do not help Americans.] +++ Prostitution and gambling is a way to help lower income Americans get a better income. And no one is harmed in the process. Prostitution is between consenting adults. If we outlawed all activities that we could not trade or were not overall helpful to society that would include: movies, parks, car shows, etc. THE FACT THAT SOMETHING IS UNTRADEABLE OR SOLELY FUN IS NO REASON TO OUTLAW IT IN OUR FREE NATION. >>> committed relationships are a huge investment in the future +++ Banning video games, large meals and theaters would make us more productive. But we live in a free society where our Constitution has the word ""not"" in order to restrict government 22 times. Our government is based off freedom, not on what will make us more productive. It is a nation for the people, not for the government. A nation that would prefer to be more productive as a society that give basic freedoms is the once Soviet Union or Cuba. Not the U S of A. >>> [Gambling] throws [some] into a cycle of poverty, and for some few others, +++ In this case, investing in a business should be outlawed. If you want to start a business, you have a great chance of not succeeding, which leads to a cycle of poverty. Americans are smart enough to make their own choices if it hurts nobody else. China and Cuba make decisions for their people not America. >>> People in the first group are left more often begging +++ Americans are smart enough to make their own choices that effect them. If you are doing something that hurts nobody but yourself, it should be your freedom, as our founding fathers wanted. Let's remember the Constitution uses the word ""not"" 22 times to restrict government power against its people. And remember that we are talking about America, not Cuba or China, who make decisions for its people instead of allowing freedoms. >>> they already have a fat stack of cash and no job. +++ What ever happened to liberty and for Christ's sake the pursuit of happiness? III: Police Productivity >>> They DO stop thefts and murders. +++ Police could, obviously, be more productive if they had more police and more financial resources to spend stopping victims from being robbed, raped, etc. >>> our society thrives with committed relationships, this [prostitution] is decidedly bad for society in the long run. +++ No. It's not. Prostitution is sex between consenting adults. Consenting adults have sex all the time. This is a basic right. The government does not have the right to hinder that and they have failed in trying to hinder consenting adults from having sex. +++ Maybe you prefer China where they meddle in family matters like how many children you can have. The government cannot decide for people how they run their love and family life. IV: ""Drugs"" >>> Many people who use drugs are penalized for it. +++ But drugs are still rampant. The prisons are small compared to the amount of people using drugs and dealing drugs. Besides, violence is increased due to drugs, like it was in prohibition. Gang drug wars exist because of the criminalization of drugs. >>> People who are penalized [are] less likely to have children. +++ This is wildly speculative. And how is this a good thing? Up there, you supported family life, in your prostitution arguments. >>> people who don't do drugs will have more children on average than people who do do drugs. +++ B is untrue. Therefore, C is untrue. Your links do not link. And this is wildly speculative. >>> This leads to drug-using being slowly eliminated from society. +++ The Century anniversary of the Harrison Act is quickly approaching and your speculative defense has yet to happen? Why would this happen? It will never happen. >>> [Fees replace the tax burden] +++ THEY NEVER DO! Tax revenue could be way higher. Drug usage is huge! The taxes on drugs could bring exorbitant revenue. And right now, the government is not effectively stopping people from using drugs. I don't even think you believe what you are saying. >>> the fees could be increased. +++ Why would increase fees on Americans who have not hurt anybody but just want to be happier citizens? What happened to freedom afforded by the Constitution!? >>> [Drugees are often killed, so less drugs] +++ That is a terrible thing to say! Are you advocating the death of drug using Americans? >>> Association does not imply causation. +++ Well, in cases of extremity it does. DRUG USAGE IN HALVED IN THE NETHERLANDS, AFTER MANY DRUGS WERE LEGALISED! This is a significant figure and to say there is no correlation is just a debate defense and contrary to common sense. >>> What would be much better in showing causation would be a study comparing Amsterdam's drug usage pre-legalization and post-legalization. +++ If this is true, then my other statistic is causaitive but [http://www. drugpolicy. org/ library/dekort2.cfm] proves that in the 1960s when drugs were illegal in Amsterdam, the usage rate was much higher and now it is much lower. SO, AS YOU ASKED, I HAVE PROVEN THAT LEGALIZATION IS MORE EFFECTIVE THAN PROHIBITION. CON V: Conclusion Response >>> I have shown that prohibition does indeed work, just not in the short run. +++ Amsterdam, Alcohol Prohibition, Gambling Prohibition, Drug Prohibition, and Prostitution prove that wrong. You even admitted that there are no figures to back you with your generational argument. I have all these on my side. >>> I have shown that prohibitions are not always costly, since they generate income +++ Prohibition is always costly. It takes away tax revenue and costs billions in law enforcement revenue. This is not made up with the fines. ALSO, IT TAKES SO MUCH MORE MONEY TO HOLD, TRANSPORT AND TYR A PRISONER: A LOT MORE THAN THE SMALL FINE THEY PAY. >>> While prohibition might usually cause crime, it only does so in the short run, which is insignificiant in the big picture. +++ This is never proven. YOU JUST CONCEEDED THAT PROHIBITION CAUSES CRIME, AT LEAST FOR A WHILE. I have proven with Amsterdam, Alcohol Prohibition, Gambling Prohibition, Prostitution Prohibition, and Drug Prohibition that even after a century, usage will be up and crime will dramatically increase. >>> It matters not what America is rooted on. That is an appeal to false authority. Just because the constitution says X, or the founding fathers would say X, does not mean X is right. +++ I think very highly of our Constitution. The founding fathers would be very upset to see the government they designed and the senators and presidents they essentially hired trampling all over the American people's freedoms. *** Victimless crime laws trample over Constitutional freedoms and philosophies. *** Victimless crime laws cost money in tax revenue, police personnel resources, police financial resources, court trial money, court trial time, and a lot more. *** Victimless crime laws are always ineffective. Legalisation actually lowers the use of said crime. *** Prisons will be less crowded with the few ""criminals"" that have been caught in the prison system. Rapists, murderers, and robbers will not be freed with parole. Thank you."	PRO	61
61	Sb1a6f17a-A39bc3110	Violence in video games does not significantly contribute to real world violence.	"What began the controversy: It is obvious that violence has been a major issue in society today. Events such as the school shooting in Newtown and the bombing of the Boston Marathon have made people begin to wonder what exactly pushed the guilty individuals to commit such atrocities. Many people have concluded that one of the major factors that promotes violence today are video games. Jay Rockefeller is one of the activists against video game violence. Minnesota Post explains that Rockfeller introduced a legislation instructing the National Association of Sciences to investigate the effects of violent video games on children, saying, “People believe that violent video games are no more dangerous to young minds than classic literature or Saturday morning cartoons. Parents, paediatricians, and psychologists know better.” (1) The effects of video games on the minds of young children has been studied for years, and the data quite contradicts Rockfeller’s conclusion. What really causes violence in teens: Serious Crimes Adam Lanza, the gunman from the Sandy Hook shooting, played violent video games regularly. This caused many to believe that this is why he committed his violent crime. However, this was not the case. Eric Huey explains, “It turns out that delinquent peers, depression, and an abusive family environment account for actual violence incidents…” (2) Obviously, mental disorders would be another thing that promotes such violence. Here we can see that video games did not compel him (or most other school shooters) to commit the crime. Aggression A common argument against violence in video games is that violence in video games cause aggression. This is actually not the case. Carol Pichefsky notes that aggression is not caused by violent video games; rather, it is caused by a competitive environment (3). So, a game of MarioKart would be just as likely to result in aggression as a game of Call of Duty. This is not exclusive to video games either, competitive sports and competitive debate (especially on this website) are just as likely to result in aggression. So, it is certainly not the violence in video games that causes such feelings. The last thing I would like to note is that aggression and violence are two different things. Aggression is an intention. Violence in an action (4). My opponent showing that video games cause aggression is simply not enough. Violence rates: Here is the most important point of this debate. Logically, if violence in video games significantly contribute to real world violence, violent crime rates would rise as video game sales rise. This, however, is untrue: Now, I don't claim that this decrease is due to video game sales (a lot of other factors could have affected the decline). However, this decrease makes mockery of the idea that video games have legitimately contributed to the rise of violence in society today (5). Video game's effect: Releasing Aggression Studies suggest that video games give individuals an outlets to release aggression; there was a study done on inmates. An observer notes ""If you give them video games, they’ll be less likely to start fights. So once a week we’d hook up a bunch of TVs in a classroom so all of the murderers and rapists could play Halo. There’s nothing more interesting than seeing guys who have killed multiple people deathmatching each other (6)."" The inmates clearly were able to release their aggression in a way that doesn't hurt other people. This can be applied to other people as well. Logically, if violence in video games makes inmates less violent, they won't have an opposite affect when it comes to kids. Enjoyment of Violence This is an important part of the debate. Many people don't become violent because of violence in video games. Rather, they play violent video games because they enjoy violence. In order for con to win this point, he must prove that the violence in video games causes the violence. A simple correlation between violent people and people that play violent video games is not enough. (1) http://www.minnpost.com... (2) http://www.sfgate.com... (3) http://www.forbes.com... (4) http://www.goodtherapy.org... (5) Chasing the Dream, “The Economist” (6) http://freakonomics.com..."	PRO	62
62	S96ec5615-A55dd031a	"""Hate Crimes"" should not be a factor in the administration of justice"	"I thank my opponent for his response and will proceed with my concluding round of arguments. -------------------- My opponent keeps coming back to the fact that the far reaching ramifications of hate crime are extra judicial and not in the interest of justice or our criminal system. It really seems that my opponent is arguing that hate crime legislature should not be formed. For as long as there are laws pertaining to hate crime, it is the function of the judiciary to apply those laws in cases. So, I'll just assume that my opponent is really arguing against hate crime legislation and not about judicial functions. Keeping that in mind, I just want to ask my readers some questions. What is the purpose of having a criminal system? Is it simply to judge on the individual incident in isolation? Does it not have any further intentions apart from that, such as deterrence, mitigation, rehabilitation? Having a criminal system in place, in the first place, means that we are shaping society to our needs, by removing harmful elements. Does not removal of weeds in a garden constitute as shaping the garden to our needs? So, when my opponent says helping shape society is not the function of the judiciary (legislature), I gather my opponent wants to say that the laws meant to shape society should not be allowed? But that cannot be possible, as laws, by definition (the condition of society brought about by the observance of rules), shape society.[1] My opponent also says that we should not look to solve society's problems via the judiciary(legislature). Well, how else does he propose those be solved, if not by passing such laws that would help solve them? By randomly shooting people who cause problems? If such laws should be passed, it then becomes the function of the judiciary, in a way. This in no way translates to ""expanding the functions of the judiciary"" as my opponent claims. Also, I feel the fears of my opponent that a political majority will form laws that it likes are unfounded. There is a process of repealing laws available. They only have to vote the right people in, unless my opponent also feels democracy is untenable? I don't really know what my opponent wanted me to see in the references [1] and [2] he provided in his round, as those don't seem to work. [1] just gave me a definition of the alphabet H and asks me ""What made you want to look up h?"" in the seen & heard section :) -------------------------------------- Regarding my example of petty and grand theft, I take exception to my opponent saying that it's a distinction based on a differentiation of the crime itself. I doubt that there were concepts of petty theft and grand theft before. There was only the crime of theft. A legislation introduced the differentiation. I mainly put this forward to make the point that a theft is not a theft. There's a difference. Similarly, the point that my opponent is making, viz. a murder is a murder is a murder, would fall under the same category, I feel. There are differences between murders and not every murder is the same. They differ in magnitude. ---------------------------- ""If such harmful thoughts are not to be eradicated through the process of law, how then does my opponent want it to be done?"" My opponent claims that this is an outrageous thought, and that he is perfectly fine with people holding harmful thoughts. He only takes objection to people having harmful behavior. Well, so do I. People are prosecuted for holding harmful thoughts only when they act upon them. As long as they don't act upon such thoughts, they are free to hold whatever they wish in their minds. In pretty much the same way people are not prosecuted for holding murderous thoughts, but prosecuted for holding such thoughts when they act upon them. It's a fine distinction. Every action springs from a thought, so you might console yourself that you are just reacting to the act, but the act is not isolated. It's the thought + the act. Not every person who holds a murderous thought is a murderer, but every murderer did have a murderous thought at that time. Where does hate crime law say that people are to be prosecuted just because they hold harmful thoughts? Also, if you will indulge me. What's the purpose of a deterrent? You must've heard the phrase, ""Don't even think about it."" (You are free to disregard this line if you want, but I just put it out there.) ------------------------------- Again, my opponent asserts that hate crime legislation is really thought crime. I'll respond in the same way. You are not deemed criminal just because you hold hate in your mind. Only when you act upon it. Is any crime committed without real thought? Is crime a reflex action? If it is, you really cannot punish it. Only when it's committed with thought and intent does it become liable for punishment. I also feel that it would not be beneficial in any way for society if a majority of citizens hold hateful thoughts. It just increases the probability of people acting upon it. If anyone commits a crime because of a social situation (poverty, joblessness, etc.), you can take steps to remedy said social situation and thus reduce the probability of such crimes occurring. But what steps can you take to remedy situations where people are hated for their gender? Or skin color? Or age? Change their gender, skin color, age? Yes, you can educate everybody. You can definitely try that. By all means. This law would just be an added safety valve. My opponent also forgets the fact that if such hate abounds (even if not acted upon), it really makes the life of the hated person difficult. Hating people don't need to commit prosecutable acts to trouble the victim. Really small things here and there make a huge difference too. What are the victims supposed to do then? It is always beneficial for society to maintain a balance, and this can be done if hateful thoughts don't abound, especially for things that can't really be changed. -------------------------------------- If my opponent really wants to bring abuse of interpretation in, I cannot help but state that almost every law is susceptible for abuse, if the lawyer is skilled enough. If a lawyer is definitely able to prove that hate exists when none existed in reality, nothing can be done. You cannot just say x person hated y without providing evidence for it. I'm really not capable of providing an argument against cooking up of evidence. ------------------------------ I'd like to conclude with a summary of my argument here as a response to the 5 points that my opponent has raised in his summary. 1. A deterrent is well and good, but if no expedient methods exist for reduction of incidence of crime, a stronger deterrent could well do the trick. 2. Legislation by definition is extra-judicial. The link [3] provided by my opponent himself says so, if I take judicial here to mean functions of the judiciary. I'll paste the relevant line here. ""Under the doctrine of the separation of powers, the judiciary generally does not make law or enforce law"" 3. Every legislation is subject to the capricious winds of politics and current events. Legislation has desired objectives in addition to justice, like shaping society to our needs. 4. Hate crime is not thought crime as criminals are prosecuted for holding those thoughts and then acting upon it. 5. Interpretational implications of every legislation open up great opportunities for abuse. Interpretation of law is a huge topic and there are books written upon it. --------------------------------------- I thank my opponent for an engaging debate and in light of the arguments urge the readers to vote CON. [1] http://dictionary.reference.com..."	CON	63
63	S4e909451-A619552e8	Obama does not have a history of being a bridge-builder	"""Obama’s Test: Can a Liberal Be a Unifier?"". New York Times. 25 Mar. 2005 - ""Mr. Obama does not come to the campaign with a reputation as one of the most accommodating bridge-builders in the Senate."""	PRO	64
64	Sabaa6f17-A2c1d0e65	Gun control does not reduce crime (USA only)	My opponent is having DDO coding issues. Its unfortunate. We agreed that I would allow him to post the remainder in the comments for me to rebuttal as a former round. R1: Correlation is not Causation Even though my opponent accounted for some variables, my point was he didn't use any statistical methods to account for all variables. For instance, New Hampshire has more guns and less murders, but its because the area is rural in nature. The state doesn't have a heck of a lot of hand guns, which are most commonly used to kill someone, unlike other states such as Hawaii. Source: http://nhpr.org... As criminologist in the article pointed out rather well, New Hampshire almost leads the all states in higher income per capita, employment, etc... Its no wonder that it doesn't have a heck of a lot of gun trouble. These factors are not accounted for when looking at Hawaii. Even then, even though the state has more guns, it also has a heck of a lot of gun regulations behind it as well. The state is a “may issue” state, meaning you still have to get a permit for a gun in the first place, as only suitable people in the state may posses a firearm. Source: https://en.wikipedia.org... As per my original point his source only accounts for homicides. Not gun related homicides. A huge issue. R2: Hawaii vs New Hampshire I believe I just answered this (above in R1). My correlation is not causation fallacy accusation of my opponent pertains to more than just one area, so I think its okay to leave this here, as it applies to both and I'm just essentially repeating myself. R3: Empathy/Fear in Psychopaths I agree with my opponent that we need to try and reduce casualties as much as possible, but again this is the very purpose of the police. These individuals are trained in handling these critical situations, something typical gun owners are not trained to do. Worse yet, because they probably do not have the same legal knowledge as someone in the law field, their claims of self defence might not actually be the same in the eyes of the law, and thus more crime inadvertently happens. In fact, I pointed this out in a previous round. In point 4, most judges who overlooked a case of self-reported self defence claims, claimed that they were not in fact self defence and thus liable for jail time. Source: http://www.hsph.harvard.edu... This unequivocally shows the problem with more guns, they do not reduce crime, they enhance it by empowering people with little legal knowledge to shoot first and ask questions later. As for the Fort Hood Shooter and the Naval Yard Shooter, again, we needed more, not less, gun control to have gotten guns out of their hands. My opponent just drops my whole point: the database is for convicted criminals. However, most databases also do not permit the mentally ill from having one either. Both shooters were suffering from psychotic breaks and thus, if flagged, would not have been given a gun. This is an argument for more gun control. Not less. This would prevent the seller from being liable as well because of the lack of information. I mean imagine the guilt of a gun store manager for selling one of these goofs a gun! How do they feel? R4: Bad Gun Ownership (comments) The source claims a majority. This means 50% +1. My opponent unfortunately plays semantics here. Further, in the scenario, my opponent proves my point. If he was correct, pulling out a gun and attacking the robber did not prevent a crime, for the shooter themselves has committed one: manslaughter. The problem being that the store owner committed an imperfect self-defence and thus has committed a crime inadvertently. Worse yet, because a thief only wants goods, the gun resulting in death just proves my point, the issue gets escalated to one of a loss of life. Source: https://en.wikipedia.org...(United_States_law)#Involuntary_manslaughter R5: Chicago Okay, my opponent brings this up and thus I need to as well. My opponent is simply wrong on Chicago. Again, because correlation is not causation, and again because the police powers are not given to seize illegal guns in the first place (a form of gun control) gang violence and organized crime runs rampant. This would be true regardless of if we were to hypothetically rid Chicago of all guns. Because most guns in Chicago come from out of state. My opponents claim fails to take this into account. Furthermore, because urban segregation is still an issue, along with poverty rates as well, a variety of other factors makes crime more complex than simply picking a state and comparing gun crime with gun laws. Source: http://www.huffingtonpost.com... In fact, even within my own source, if I were to take the same standard as my opponent, I could easily argue that gun control worked. Because in recent times, the crime numbers today compared to 1965 are still lower. Even though on the whole Chicago nationally has a pretty bad crime problem. Finally, and I quote my source: “ Chicago police instituted several initiatives in an attempt to reduce the bloodshed, including a “summer surge” of officers working overtime in high-crime areas and an expansion of its “custom notifications” program, in which officers knock on the doors of gang-affiliated individuals to put them on alert, connect them with social services and even set up meetings with family members of gun violence victims.” My opponent dropped my meta-analysis of gun control. My opponent dropped my point on statistical signifgance, and correlation as well. Thank you to my opponent for a lovely debate. I hope you audience will vote for me :)	CON	65
65	S2e729a4f-A1309f202	Assimilation does not mean abandoning cultural distinctions	Assimilation is often falsely characterized as the melting of cultural uniqueness into a single cultural identity. In fact, assimilation need not have anything to do with culture; that would be acculturation. A conservative approach to assimilation would see only a lack of legal and governmental distinctions between groups and might uphold a single national language, for example. It would attempt to foster a common set of economic standards and skills that would enable all citizens to take advantage of all the opportunities available to them. But, it need not force cultural changes upon anyone. While acculturation often does accompany assimilation, it is important not to confuse the two.	PRO	66
66	Sb1a6f17a-Af03f36cb	Violence in video games does not significantly contribute to real world violence.	"I'll do a couple short rebuttals and then move on to some voting issues. MY CASE Logical Fallacy- Affirming a Disjunct My opponent accuses me of using this logical fallacy throughout my case. The problem with this point is that in order for me to be using this fallacy, I would have to have no evidence which shows how video games do *not* cause violence. I have shown this in a couple places. First, lets look at my statistics point. There I illustrated that as video game sales have gone up, violence rates have gone down. This essentially makes mockery of the idea that violence in video games significantly contributes to violence. However, if you, as a reader, do not buy this point, I'll clarify for you a bit more in my next point. Second, look at my point which explains the aggression release coming from video games. This suggests that violence in video games can actually lower violence rates, which is supported by my statistics. Through these two points, I hope you will all see that I have not used this logical fallacy. Really, studies on video games alone have so many variables that could be causing violence. It is inaccurate to blame the violence variable for any aggression / legitimate crime that comes from gamers. Violence Rates My opponent explains that even if violence goes down as video games sales go up, the violence in these games could still be significantly contributing to real world violence. I would agree with this. These statistics are mainly there to support my release of aggression point. This point also illustrates how unlikely it would be for violence in video games to actually be contributing to real world violence in a significant way. I don't think my chart covers the military kill rate (I will talk about this soon). Later on in the voting issues, I'll elaborate more on the idea of significance. Video Game's Effects Basically, my opponent attacks my source, as opposed to my argument. I would agree that my source could be considered inaccurate; I'll go ahead and bring up a couple more points to further elaborate on the idea of violent video games being used to release aggression. My first source notes that 42% of boys play video games because it helps them release anger, and 65% of boys say these games help them relax (1). My Gilsdorf source elaborates, ""If some of these men are hopelessly mentally ill, then we need to do all we can to prevent their access to real guns. But sane or depressed, many men feel powerless. Many feel angry. Many feel disengaged. They just want a stake in the action. Video games might be the best outlet they’ve got."" OPPONENT'S CASE Not Born to Kill The first thing to look at here is the difference between video games and these ""killing sessions."" My opponent essentially drops this argument. We have to realize that the video games kids are playing today are quite different from the simulations used in the army. Really, my opponent has only proved that military murder simulations increase violence in the military. This is not the topic we are currently debating. Even if these simulations could actually be compared to common video games today, these activities didn't make officers more willing to shoot because of desensitization (as a result of violence). The reason firing rates went up is because of the implementation of a method known as ""point shooting."" Point shooting was effective (even without a video simulation) because it was similar to real combat situations (3). Essentially, my opponent has yet to prove that these simulations are (a) similar to real video games and (b) the violence factor of this simulation actually causes violence. Desensitize Me My opponent points out some flaws in my desensitization study. Here is why my study really is more accurate. 1. My opponent's study has multiple variables since it involves the actual playing of a video game. Essentially, the competition factor is very present in this study. There is no way of knowing whether the violence, the desensitization, or the competition caused the willingness to push the button. 2. The study basically admits that it shows a correlation, not a causation. Look at this quote directly from the study: ""These relationships do not establish causality, as desensitized children with lower empathy may simply be more drawn to violent games, or a third factor, such as suboptimal parenting practices, may be responsible for this relationship. Potential mediating relationships should also be considered. For example, children who seek highly arousing experiences may be especially drawn to playing violent video games."" and this quote: ""Children’s estimated exposure to video game violence was not associated with aggression vignette responses."" We can't look to a study with multiple variables that shows, at best, a correlation rather than a causation. My study further weakens this point by disproving the correlation between desensitization and violence in video games. My opponent also notes that while aggression is short lived, desensitization lasts a longer time. The thing is, since this study involves individuals actually playing some sort of a game. Obviously, spurts of aggression due to competition (or even violence) can be expected. Just remember, aggression is not the same thing as violence. Dr. Bruce My opponent brings up a new argument known as the ""bystander"" effect. He basically explains that this is caused by desensitization, and will ultimately contribute to real world violence. I'd like to make a couple points: 1. The bystander effect is not a new thing. It has existed way before the time of violent video games. ""In the famous 1964 “Kitty Genovese” incident, a young woman named Kitty Genovese was stabbed to death outside her home in Queens, New York. Many of Kitty’s neighbors heard her desperate screams for help, yet no one called the police until too late (4)."" 2. Let's get to the real question, ""What causes the effect?"" The bystander effect is certainly not caused by desensitization. It is rather caused by a term known as ""diffusion of responsibility."" To clarify my source continues, ""One reason that the bystander effect occurs is the social influence process known as “diffusion of responsibility”. Through numerous studies, psychologists have found that bystanders are less likely to intervene in emergency situations as the size of the group increases."" We can safely conclude that violence in video games does not contribute to such a psychological phenomenon. CONCLUSION Let me bring up a few points to summarize... 1. My opponent has made no empirical claims. This is perhaps one of the most important points. He cannot prove video games significantly contribute to violence if he fails to provide any numbers which show ""significance."" Elaborating on what I said earlier on, all my opponent has shown is an increased kill rate in the military due to kill simulations. In reality, these simulations are not what promote the elevation of the kill rate, rather it is the new training methods (whether they involve videos or not). 2. Video games don't cause desensitization. I have pointed out the various flaws in my opponents study. Essentially, there is no causation has been shown between desensitization and violence in video games. 3. Other factors cause (at best) aggression. There are too many other variables in video games to pinpoint violence in video games as something that significantly contributes to real world violence. 4. Video games can help release aggression. Hence, the lower violence rates. If you, as a reader, do not buy this argument, look to the fact that my opponent's case has not shown any significant contributions from violence in video games outside the military. 5. Already violent people (or at least those who crave violent / arousing experiences) may play violent video games, hence the added violence from gamers. My opponent's desensitization study even suggests this... ""Children who seek highly arousing experiences may be especially drawn to playing violent video games."" For these reasons, vote pro!! Thanks to anyone who reads this :) (1) Cheryl Olson, Lawrence Kutner, Dorothy Warner, Jason Almerigi, Lee Baer, Armand Nicholi, and Eugene Beresin, ""Factors Correlated with Violent Video Game Use by Adolescent Boys and Girls,"" Journal of Adolescent Health, July 2007 (2) http://cognoscenti.wbur.org... (3) http://cdn.paladin-press.com... (4) http://heroicimagination.org..."	PRO	67
67	Sd2f4b1cd-A611f46e4	Gay marriage does not devalue institution of marriage	"Ted Olson. ""The conservative case for gay marriage."" Newsweek. January 12, 2010: ""Another argument, vaguer and even less persuasive, is that gay marriage somehow does harm to heterosexual marriage. I have yet to meet anyone who can explain to me what this means. In what way would allowing same-sex partners to marry diminish the marriages of heterosexual couples? Tellingly, when the judge in our case asked our opponent to identify the ways in which same-sex marriage would harm heterosexual marriage, to his credit he answered honestly: he could not think of any."""	PRO	68
68	S2e729a4f-A13e5d110	Multiculturalism does entail the loss of culture; that of the host country:	While multiculturalism does attempt to protect the cultures of immigrants, by doing so, it diminishes the culture of the host country. Add a new culture into society and another culture loses out, finding less space to express and exercise itself. And, the cultures that lose out from the entry of new immigrant cultures may be historically-rooted and nationally-honored cultures. Therefore, multiculturalism has its cultural costs, just as assimilation has its costs. But, the distinction is that assimilation better protects a host country's historical culture, while multiculturalism better protects new-entrant cultures. If historically-rooted cultures are seen as more important to protect, than the assimilation model may have greater cultural preservation value.	PRO	69
69	S4381b332-Ae2f326d1	I think it does	Wow like 90% of the kids play CoD. Have any of them become serial killers? After what i know serial killers haven’t been playing much violent games, maybe if you don’t play violent games you become violent? ” In my opinion you become violent by drinking water. All the murders I ever heard about have been drinking water. ” Pretty much the same logic… BTW in your story the kid haven’t done anything wrong… But his parents that doesn’t seem to have been playing violent games have ensured that their son died. If there weren’t horrible at parenting the kid could still been alive and saved… Actually his parents are criminals that didn’t report earlier and get their own son killed.	CON	70
70	S2250950f-Ae2c95c65	Arming the police will cause an escalation in criminal violence	The British Crime Survey maintains that gun crime is very rare throughout the UK. The reason communities are so afraid is that the over-zealous media continually hype up individual incidences of gun crime in order to attract more readers. The statistics show that knife and gun crime are overrepresented in the news, with 25% of newspapers stories on average being dedicated to crime.[1] Because of this exaggerated coverage, there is a moral panic in which people think that if they are attacked it will be by a knife-wielding maniac. This is simply not true. There is more chance that you will be in a car accident than be attacked on the street. Introducing guns onto the streets, even in a legal and well-intentioned manner is a trigger for increasing the number of guns that gangs and organised crime groups bring onto the street. [1] Media Awareness Network, ‘TV Crime Facts – Teaching Backgrounder’ http://www.media-awareness.ca/english/resources/educational/teaching_backgrounders/crime/tv_crime_facts.cfm, accessed 20 September 2011	PRO	71
71	S2250950f-A1c985d67	Arming the police will cause an escalation in criminal violence	Violence is already escalating and we need a robust response. Many communities are vulnerable to postcode gangs comprised of young people aged 14 and upwards who are armed and dangerous and making their areas unsafe to live in. Only a robust and proactive response from the police such as patrolling such territories with firearms so as to protect themselves and innocent civilians will address this problem.	CON	72
72	S2e729a4f-Aeda5fad8	Multiculturalism can cause the false mashing of identities	Multiculturalism can create problems for various groups that do not fit neatly into the provided categories. In the UK, for example, individuals from the Middle East, but whom are not Muslim, may nevertheless be grouped into this category. This is wrong in principle, creates false distinctions and polarizations, and can create tensions where there were none before.	PRO	73
73	Sfffd366c-A9993fbf0	Being Religious in America: Does Not Make You More Likely To Commit Crimes.	Well it all comes down to how they react and what they really want, say someone killed you mother, you would most likely want justice of revenge. Or say your starving and need food, and you see a candy store closed. It will really com down to what they feel.	CON	74
74	S72f5af83-Ac452052d	Libertarianism does not allow for essential public services (i.e. roads)	Because Libertarianism does not allow for the collectivization of resources, it does not afford the sufficient resources to a public to provide essential public resources such as roads. While there are some examples of private roads or private fire-fighting services being provided, the problem is that the quantity and scale of these private services will always be insufficient for our needs.	PRO	75
75	S72f5af83-A18ece750	Making all government interaction voluntary would cause a huge increase in crime	All criminals would choose not to interact with government, and, as a result, no one is preventing them from committing crimes.	PRO	76
76	S87d0ccd3-Aacd72ab2	"Legalization does not ensure that prostitutes won't continue to work with ""pimps""."	The legalization of the ‘Bunny Ranch’ in Nevada did not prevent the majority of prostitutes from continuing to work outside of the licensed brothel, and remain dependent on pimps. This is because brothels are more expensive environments for prostitutes to work and clients to visit. Rent, health checks, and security, are some of the costs which make it uneconomic for some prostitutes to be employed in brothels. In Britain, where prostitution is virtually prohibited, some prostitutes use private apartments, whilst others work on the street. Legalisation of prostitution does not remove the street market, or the dangers associated with it. The dangerous street environment is generated by simple economics, not legal controls.	PRO	77
77	S4e909451-A54641908	War and senatorial experience does not give McCain leadership experience.	Just because McCain almost died in a war and has been a senator for a jillion years does not mean that he has leadership experience. Being the President of the United States requires a little bit more if you ask me. Obama has showed great power in the senate while McCain before 2 years ago has been pretty quiet. Obama is young and ready to make change. This change hasnt been the best, but could McCain have done better? I will let you decide.	PRO	78
78	S96ec5615-Ad14e96e2	"""Hate Crimes"" should not be a factor in the administration of justice"	I thank my opponent for his opening statements. I will follow up with my rebuttals. Motivation My opponent contends that crime committed, regardless of motivation, is harmful to society. The harm is not diminished or enhanced if the motivation behind it comes to light. I agree with him, to an extent. It's only on the basis of motivation that we can decide whether it's a crime in the first place. My opponent then gives an example where a brother being killed because he was gay, or during a robbery makes no difference to the nature of the crime and has to be punished in an equal manner. Deeming one to be a hate crime and treating it differently seems to my opponent as somehow legitimizing the murder committed during the robbery. I contend, however, that this is not the case. Where I would like to differ is that in the case of the hate crime, the injured party is not limited to the immediate family of the deceased and includes all the members of the perceived group of the victim. Thus, the magnitude is of a higher scale than the other case. It is this difference in magnitude that has to be addressed. For example, theft has been divided into two categories, petty theft and grand theft [1]. This division is of nothing but magnitude, as grand theft would cause a higher degree of injury to the victim than petty theft might. For this reason, petty theft receives a lesser punishment than grand theft. Does this then mean that it's more okay to do petty theft than to do grand theft, as my opponent says? No. My opponent also brings up the feelings of the affected family by saying that the family might not be comforted by the fact that their oppressor received lesser punishment due to it not being a hate crime. Well, if the feelings of the family are to be considered, shouldn't they then have a say in the punishment? Whether the aggressor should live or die? Why isn't that taken into consideration? External to justice My opponent then contends that the function of the judiciary is to provide a fair trial for a specific crime. Well, we all know that the function of the judiciary is to interpret and apply the law in the name of the state. So, when my opponent says that the objective of hate crime is extra judicial, it does not make any sense. The law is made by the legislature and as long as there is a separate law for hate crime, it's not extra judicial as far as the judiciary's concerned. The legislature will make laws that it thinks will be beneficial for the society, and thus, it cannot be called extra judicial. To remove certain laws, the citizens of the society have the means wherein they can elect representatives whom they think will repeal those laws. Until then, it would be the case that the laws are there because the society, as a whole wants them. Politicization Since we have entrusted the politicians to make the laws of the land, it doesn't make sense to say that the legislation is politically motivated. If my opponent wants legislation not to be politically motivated, he should have non-politicians make the laws. The judiciary is responsible for providing a fair trial for the defendant, but it's society (through its representatives) that is responsible for making laws. Society IS concerned, however, as to what kind of thinking leads to certain crimes. If it does not take that into consideration, it will never be able to eradicate such harmful elements from society. If such harmful thoughts are not to be eradicated through the process of law, how then does my opponent want it to be done? By processes outside of law? Or is it the case that my opponent thinks these are not harmful elements, but just criminals and don't need any extra forethought on the part of the society? Through the ages, we've seen how random elements of society have been targeted, for one reason or the other. People thought blacks are not equal to the whites, females can't decide for themselves, let alone for society, etc. Blacks received equal treatment through a process of law. Females became eligible to vote through a process of law. Society formed laws that would eliminate such kind of thinking. Would my opponent then say that these laws were extra judicial? Politically motivated? And hence should not have been done? Thought crime Contrary to what my opponent says, hate crime legislation is not legislation against thought. Nobody is convicted for what they think. It's only when they act illegally on the basis of those thoughts that they are convicted. It's the behavior of individuals that is a factor here. I believe that the behavior of a person who is acting on a hate of say, children, is different from the behavior of a person who is acting in a robbery. So, I'd like the readers to disregard this angle of thought crime legislation. Interpretational difficulties What my opponent says here is true. Hate crime should not be applied strictly for protected groups. Every crime that is perpetrated due to hate, whether it is on the minority or the majority has to be treated equally. Also, unless and until one is absolutely sure that the crime was committed due to the hate factor, it cannot be treated as a hate crime. There can be no interpretational difficulties here. The default should be just a crime, hate crime should be decided only with evidence. Summary All of the contentions that my opponent has raised doesn't consider the fact that there are groups of people that are being targeted for no reason other than the fact that they are perceived to belong to a specific group. Either my opponent thinks that such things don't exist (in which case [2]), or think that such things should be discouraged by some process that falls outside of the law. Unless he provides reasons as to why such practices should not be discouraged or ways to do it without mandating it, I'd argue that hate crime should be a factor during the administration of justice, as the harm caused to society by such crimes is way higher than can reasonably be caused by other crimes. [1] http://en.wikipedia.org... [2] http://en.wikipedia.org...	CON	79
79	Sc48592d0-A879706fc	Libertarians are right on crime-- No gun control laws an no victimless crimes	"I. Gun Control >>> Take note: Since my opponenet's resolution asserts two things with an AND [or a typo thereof], all I must do to negate it is negate ONE of these assertions. +++ :( That's just really not nice. II. Prostitution +++ My opponent presumes that prohibiting prostitution actually reduces it, this is untrue. Recall alcohol prohibition from 1920 to 1933. Home producers created whiskey and bathtub gin. The price of alcohol skyrocketed on the black market, which encouraged greed and inevitably violence. As a result prohibition did literally nothing to actually prevent alcohol from being consumed by the public. The government lost considerable amounts of tax dollars from bootlegged alcohol and it became impossible to regulate the quality, i.e. safety, of the product. This is also true of prostitution prohibition. It is very expensive, while being ineffective and causing violence to take place. +++ Also, In Las Vegad, where prostitution is legal, the prostitutes are checked for STDs. This could be put in place nationally and would be significantly more effective in the fight against STDs from prostitution. >>> Allowing prostitution creates an unproductive job +++ Oh please. Unproductive jobs are already in America. In debate, we call that non-unique. People will continue to play solitaire at work and go to the watercooler whether prostitution is legal or not. C'mon. >>> and promotes infidelity in society. +++ Bad songs, movies, and Bill Clinton promote infidelity in society. The American people can decide what to do with their sex organs! The option of prostitution is still out there and any person with a brain cell can find a prostitute. The prohibition on prostitution is ineffective and useless. If somebody wants to cheat on their spouse, they can manage to do it without a prostitute. +++ Prostitution legalisation would not promote infidelity. Prostitution is already around. The illegality of the practice makes it less likely to suspect. In a world, where it was legal, a spouse would suspect the practice more easily and therefore, it would be less likely and spouses would catch the adulterer easier. >>> Someone is spending time at work, but not truly producing anything useful for society as a whole. +++ It makes people happy. McDonald's floor moppers don't produce anything ofr society as a whole either but should we ban them? >>> Not only that, but it needlessly increases the risk of STD's spreading. +++ Prostitution is already around. The only difference is people will not get arrested and crowd the prison system for their job. >>> Also, promoting infidelity [or rather, not explicitly promoting fidelity] has its own problems for society. This leads to less stable families, which means kids are generally not raised as well, people are often less happy because they are upset at a spouse, and are therefore less productive, etc. +++ Um... This is wildly speculative, tremendously exaggerated, and the links do not link. Infidelity should be illegal, not prostitution. +++ Prostitution laws cost a lot of money that does not hurt anybody and limits freedoms. +++ The Constitution uses the word ""not"" in reference to restricting government 22 times. The founding fathers do not support victimless crimes, like prostitution. +++ Our police could be stopping thefts and murders, crimes with victims, instead of entrapping workers who are making people happy and not hurting anyone at all. III. Drugs >>> Because of the mind-altering effects of drugs, people will often make bad decisions while on drugs - decisions that are often hurtful to society. +++ Drugs will not be easier to get when legalised. I proved this earlier in Section II, with the Alcohol Prohibition model. The War on Drugs proves to be ineffective. We are all able to acquire drugs and never get caught if we wanted to. It is not even a serious crime. Often, cops will even let you off with a warning for small drug possession, but it is still tremendously costly. Cops can hardly stop prisoners from having narcotics, how can they stop the American public? They can not. >>> Also, Marijuana makes people less ambitious, and therefore less productive. +++ Only after long term use. And this presumes that legalizing marijuana will increase its use. It will not. The Alcohol Prohibition model proves that. So does the Amsterdam model prove that. In Amsterdam, they have proved that. MARIJUANA USAGE IS HALVED WHEN IT WAS LEGALISED IN AMSTERDAM. [http:// www. drugwarfacts. org/ thenethe. htm] [US Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, National Household Survey on Drug Abuse: Volume I. Summary of National Findings (Washington, DC: HHS, August 2002), p. 109] And many other drugs are dangerous, and their use runs the risk of prematurely ending lives, another loss for society. IV. Gambling >>> Casino workers get money, but they do nothing to add to the wealth of the country. +++ Yes. They do. They are just as influential to our economy as most other establishments. >>> By disallowing Gambling, our society is more prosperous, since these people might actually have jobs that produce something useful. +++ This is speculative and unproven. V. Conclusion I have proven that the prohibition of anything by the government does not work but only inrceases the usage. In America, the drug usage is double that of Amsterdam, where drugs are legal. Alcohol prohibition in America did not work and was repealed three years later. Prohibitions are always costly and always ineffective. They always cause crime. The United States is rooted on freedom of speech, religion and trade. End Prohibition! End Victimless Crime Laws!"	PRO	80
80	Sf832e1ca-Ae4fe3078	Does rehabilitation actually work?\If we could find a medicine that would ‘cure’ some offenders so…	Does rehabilitation actually work? While some rehabilitative programmes work with some offenders (those who would probably change by themselves anyway), most do not. Many programs cannot overcome, or even appreciably reduce, the powerful tendency for offenders to continue in criminal behaviour. They simply do not work. ‘Rehabilitation’ is therefore a false promise – and the danger with such an illusory and impossible goal is that it is used as a front to justify keeping offenders locked up for longer than they deserve and sometimes even indefinitely (‘if we keep him here longer maybe he might change’). We cannot justify passing any heavier or more onerous a sentence on a person in the name of “rehabilitation” if “rehabilitation” does not work. The question “does it work?” must be joined by a second question: “even if it does work, how can you tell, with each individual offender, when it has worked?” This provides further problems with subscribing to the rehabilitative ideal, argued below.	CON	81
81	Sf9e149b9-A8af9e5fc	Expiring Tax Cuts Would Cause a Double Dip Recession	As mentioned, tax cuts for the rich offer the least direct stimulus owing to the small percentage of their income that the wealthiest Americans spend on consumption. Often what is taxed is money that simply sits in bank accounts accruing interest. Given, then, that the super rich are a tiny portion of the population, despite their wealth, the immediate change the policy will have on the economy is fairly negligible.   Opposition may talk about investment in businesses, however the risks that businesses take and their benefits are only truly reflected in long term statistics, which are irrelevant in the case of recession prevention as in a few years it is likely that there will not be fears of another recession.[1] [1] “A Real Debate On Taxes,” New York Times, 23/08/2010 http://www.nytimes.com/2010/08/24/opinion/24tue1.html	CON	82
82	Sf9e149b9-Acc071575	Expiring the Tax Cuts Would Cause Investor Movement Abroad	There are a number of social ties that the rich have to the U.S.A. with many of them having inherited wealth or having families in the U.S.   Moving to another country is inconvenient as it leads to the removal of all of these social ties, further the actual cost of moving is often enough to prevent them from doing so.   Further, many rich Americans have an attachment to America itself, either as a land where their parents prospered or as a land where they managed to earn their own wealth. As such, there are emotional ties to the country. Many have political influence in the U.S. which they would be unable to take advantage of should they leave the country.[1]   Finally, it should be noted that states which routinely impose extremely low rates of personal income tax, or which refrain from taxing the bonuses paid to businesses’ senior managers obtain the majority of their state funding from natural resources revenues. Saudi Arabia is one of the largest and most active oil extractors and exporters in the world. It can make up for shortfalls in personal tax revenues by controlling the price and supply of the oil that it drills. [1] Confessore, Nicholas, “Taxes Not Seen as Making Rich Flee New York,” New York Times, 18/03/2009 http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/19/nyregion/19leave.html?_r=1	CON	83
83	Sabaa6f17-A129ac405	Gun control does not reduce crime (USA only)	My opponent has allowed me to post my arguments in the comments, as I'm very busy with school. Please do not take this as a forfeit. Thank you.	PRO	84
84	Sabaa6f17-A2b36490	Gun control does not reduce crime (USA only)	"I agree to terms. Gun Control: ""Gun control generally refers to laws or policies that regulate the manufacture, sale, transfer, possession, modification, or use of firearms."" Firearms: ""a rifle, pistol, or other portable gun"" For me, what is particularly interesting about this debate, is the fact that I too am American, but have been living in Canada for years. Its strikingly odd to me the American obsession with guns. None-the-less, I acknowledge that this debate shall be in the US only, and hereby look forward to the views of my opponent. Its a strikingly odd claim to claim that it works everywhere else, but not in the US. Either way, this is going to be fun. I further want the audience to note sources here. Lots of bad evidence, I have no doubt, tend to be used in debates like this, so audience please be objective as much as possible. Good luck, and let's do this!"	CON	85
85	Sabaa6f17-A96b2026d	Gun control does not reduce crime (USA only)	"I thank my fellow Canadian to this debate, Argument 1: States with strict gun control generally have high homicide rates. Many people are under the impression that gun bans will reduce crime. However, it is exactly the opposite. A good example would be the District of Columbia. The District of Columbia also has the highest homicide rate in the nation (compared to other states) at a 13.9 per 100,000 homicide rate [1]. Also, keep in mind, that D.C also has one of the strictest gun control laws in the nation.[2]. So, I believe it is safe to say that Gun control hasn't helped the U.S deter it's homicide rate. Let me take use the state of Vermont, a state that has much less restrictions on guns [3]. Its homicide rate in 2013, was 1.3 per 100,000 [1]. The gun laws of D.C The gun laws of Vermont As you can see, Vermont has nearly 0 restrictions on guns. Even allowing open carry. Yet, the homicide rate of Vermont is extremely low compared to D.C, which has restrictions on nearly everything. Argument 2 : Gun control only takes away guns from ""legal owners"" If strict gun control was enforced, it would likely produce millions more crime victims. That is because, legal owners would have no access to guns to protect themselves. With fewer people able to defend themselves, criminals would have an easier time getting away with crime, because most criminals will resort to the black market . Guns can be used for illegitimate purposes, but they can also be used for proper self defense. Studies found that approximately two million defensive gun uses occur each year[4]. In other studies it showed that between 800,000 and 2 million defensive gun uses are used per year[5], which show that guns save lives and protect against criminals. I'll provide my other arguments in the coming Here is a fun picture that demonstrates the results of gun control. [1] http://www.ucrdatatool.gov...... [2] http://handgunlaw.us...... [3] https://www.nraila.org...... [4]http://www.guncite.com... [5]http://www.guncite.com..."	PRO	86
86	Sb1a6f17a-A9e4989	Violence in video games does not significantly contribute to real world violence.	"I've been meaning to explore some things that coincide with my arguments and this is a great opportunity to do so. TRAINED TO KILL I'll explain this more as I go along, but the fact is kids are being trained to kill. Everyday they are on their video games simulating acts of murder over and over. Call of Duty, Grand Theft Auto all these games work to desensitize kids to violence and murder. It infects their brain and they lose their conscience. I hope by the end of this debate, I've convinced a lot of people to expose themselves and children to these violent forms of media significantly less. NOT BORN TO KILL Humans despite being a violent species are disgusted with violence. They can't bring themselves to kill people. Experts say that in World War 2 when solders would get within killing range of an enemy combatant only 1 in 5 would take the necessary shot. According to Army historian Brig. Gen. S.L.A. Marshall this has nothing to do with cowardice. Soldiers would still do feats of heroics, but just have a repulsion towards murder. Recovered muskets from the civil war showed that 90% were fully loaded. This means most of those simply weren't fired. Soldiers were pretending to shoot at the enemy. In the 1960s law enforcement was shown to have a similar problem. Cops just weren't shooting at suspects even when civilian lives were in danger. Psychologists stepped in to help the government create more efficient killers. How did they do it? Well look at a quote from the article this whole section is sourced from. ""Target practice on hollowed cabbages filled with ketchup to mimic the way a bullet rips open a human head. Marching to chants of ""kill, kill, kill."" Video game simulations that reward points for every successful ""shot."" These are among hundreds of techniques that experts say can recondition the human brain."" That's right. The government uses video games to desensitize soldiers to acts violence, so killing becomes more palatable. This stuff actually worked. By the time Vietnam rolled around the kill rate was at 90% and is likely even higher now. The kill rate jumping from 20% to 90% in military operations aided by violent video games meant to desensitize people clearly fulfills my portion of the BOP, but let's take it a step further. http://m.sfgate.com... DESENSITIZE ME It's not so much Video games being directly responsible for real world violence so much as violent video games being a major contributing factor. The more kids play violent video games the more they become desensitized to violence and the less empathy they have for victims of violence. http://static2.wikia.nocookie.net... It's simple. The more you see violent images, the less it bothers you to see violent images. This desensitization makes it easier to either commit violent actions or to stand by and do nothing when violent acts are being committed. So it contributes in 2 major ways. I'm not the only one that sees this connection between violent video games and real world violence. ""In fact the surgeon general, the National Institute of Mental Health and multiple professional organizations "" including the American Medical Association, the American Psychiatric Association and the American Psychological Association "" all consider media violence exposure a risk factor for actual violence."" http://mobile.nytimes.com... I'm not saying that an individual that plays violent video games is going to be violent, but it certainly increases their chance of becoming violent, which in turn has a huge real world effect when taking into account how many people are exposed to this desensitization. In one recent study over 30 people were exposed to different images before playing a game where they could harm their opponent by blasts of sound. The people exposed to the most violent images, were far more likely to punish their opponent more than the ones not exposed to them. http://videogames.procon.org... DR. BRUCE Dr. Bruce Perry an expert brain development in children provides a useful list of things that contribute to kids becoming violent scholastic.com z His first cause directly blames desensitization to violence as a result of violent media (aka video games). Number 2 is becoming detached from people which could also be a result of playing violent games too much. His number 5 reason is because we are becoming more practiced at killing and specifically mentions violent video games as helping with the practice. http://teacher.scholastic.com... If you think that video games aren't good at teaching anything check out this article. http://www.wired.com... A man actually saves a life from the practice he got on a military recruiting game called America's Army. FACT OR FICTION According to psychologists, up to 25% of the population can't tell the difference between reality and fantasy. http://healthland.time.com... Maybe on an intellectual level they can, but these violent games are desensitizing them worse than anybody else. These people are at particular risk of going too far after being pushed. Violent video are a major contributor to real world violence. CONCLUSION I'll post my rebuttals next rebound and anxiously await my opponent's arguments."	CON	87
87	S2250950f-Afc52adac	Arming the police does not deal with the causes underlying violence	Arming police is not mutually exclusive with other policies that could deal with the whole spectrum of crime-related issues. This debate is not suggesting that other issues related to crime will not be dealt with. Rather that in order to facilitate a reduction in crime the criminal justice system will be served by police who are armed. It is untrue to suggest that simply because the police are armed, other integral parts of crime reduction will be ignored.  	CON	88
88	S2e729a4f-A73bf16d8	Multiculturalism does not help empower minority groups	Why would state recognition of indigenous groups and differences between them necessarily empower these different groups? Might it actually alienate them? Might it weaken them by bringing to the surface historical grievances and pain? Might it create tension and conflict that further weakens them? While it is certainly possible that multiculturalism can better enable a minority group to communicate with its government, it is unclear if it is worth it as compared with these other costs, and if it is then, ultimately, empowering for these groups.	PRO	89
89	Sc47177f2-Af9ca7ece	Adolf Hitler Does Not Deserve His Reputation as Evil	Our perception of Hitler is coloured by wartime allegiances	PRO	90
90	Sc47177f2-Aa87f8f3d	Adolf Hitler Does Not Deserve His Reputation as Evil	17 million!!	CON	91
91	Sc47177f2-A52933b0f	Adolf Hitler Does Not Deserve His Reputation as Evil	Answering this question depends entirely on how one perceives and defines the notion of evil.	PRO	92
92	Sc47177f2-Ad57f9fb5	Adolf Hitler Does Not Deserve His Reputation as Evil	Hitler banned Smoking and Vivisection..	PRO	93
93	Sc47177f2-Ae65a146d	Adolf Hitler Does Not Deserve His Reputation as Evil	Hitler was responding to the problems of his time; we cannot judge him in hindsight	PRO	94
94	Sc47177f2-Acb9756e	Adolf Hitler Does Not Deserve His Reputation as Evil	NO	CON	95
95	Sc47177f2-A5efff9fc	Adolf Hitler Does Not Deserve His Reputation as Evil	Hitler was no worse than Churchill or Stalin	PRO	96
96	Sc47177f2-Ae685fbf2	Adolf Hitler Does Not Deserve His Reputation as Evil	What Hasn't He Done?	CON	97
97	Sc47177f2-A108b8b56	Adolf Hitler Does Not Deserve His Reputation as Evil	Bias	PRO	98
98	Sc47177f2-Aeb5b954b	Adolf Hitler Does Not Deserve His Reputation as Evil	this is a neutral point	PRO	99
99	Sc47177f2-A3b2b4cef	Adolf Hitler Does Not Deserve His Reputation as Evil	Others have committed comparable atrocities	PRO	100
100	Sc47177f2-Af35cf29f	Adolf Hitler Does Not Deserve His Reputation as Evil	Hitler is evil	CON	101
101	Sc47177f2-A987590d0	Adolf Hitler Does Not Deserve His Reputation as Evil	Hitler was not directly responsible for what occured under his leadership	PRO	102
102	Sc47177f2-Af196605f	Adolf Hitler Does Not Deserve His Reputation as Evil	What is evil then?	CON	103
103	Sc47177f2-A7ec13bd7	Adolf Hitler Does Not Deserve His Reputation as Evil	He was not in his right mind	PRO	104
104	Sc47177f2-Af51e7098	Adolf Hitler Does Not Deserve His Reputation as Evil	What the hell you talkin bout foo?	CON	105
105	S31f5da82-A2a230de0	Arizona law does not allow for racial profiling	"Kris Kobach. ""Why Arizona Drew a Line."" New York Times. April 28th, 2010: ""The law will allow police to engage in racial profiling. Actually, Section 2 provides that a law enforcement official “may not solely consider race, color or national origin” in making any stops or determining immigration status. In addition, all normal Fourth Amendment protections against profiling will continue to apply. In fact, the Arizona law actually reduces the likelihood of race-based harassment by compelling police officers to contact the federal government as soon as is practicable when they suspect a person is an illegal alien, as opposed to letting them make arrests on their own assessment."""	PRO	106
106	S31f5da82-A10f32a25	Arizona does not deport illegals, it encourages self-deportation	"James Edwards. ""Arizona Gets it Right on Illegal Immigration."" Human Events. April 27th, 2010: ""The law, which GOP Gov. Jan Brewer signed April 23, uses state police authority to step up pressure on illegal aliens. This should help force many to leave the state—and the country—on their own or else face time behind bars. [...] This measure promotes attrition through enforcement, the most reasonable, rational strategy on the enforcement side of the immigration equation."""	PRO	107
107	S96c4a212-Ab424f294	Rap music contributes to violent crimes	"I am sorry my definition of rap was not up to par. I found it on a website, it was not my own definition. I would also like to say to readers that I do NOT believe that rap music should be limited. I am doing this for a school project and solely that. I also thank my opponent for taking this debate, but I would like to point out that this is also very much so for researching aspects. If I say anything improper or has lack of evidence, I apologize. I am attempting to make this a real case scenario as much as possible for myself. ======= Argument 1 ======= Last time I checked, I am supposed to support my arguments with evidence that supports my side, not yours. So the POSITIVE (yes I can use caps as well) effects would not exactly prove my arguments well. ======= Rebuttal ======= 'Findings thus far are mixed, but overall they suggest that listening to rap music does not cause aggressive or deviant behaviour.' [1] I would like to bring attention to the findings are MIXED, there is grey area in this situation. Therefore, it can still cause aggressive and deviant behaviour. 'Another study found that adolescent females, after watching a rap video depicting women in sexually subordinate roles, were more inclined to express acceptance of violence against women in a dating situation. However, increased acceptance of crime and violence appears to be linked with viewing violent or sexist rap videos rather than listening to rap music on its own.' [1] Yes I agree that it is not only rap music on it's own, but the production of rap music equals the production of rap videos (in most scenarios). ======== '""The thing is: the young people who are very impressionable want to make it big in a similar way. But the danger here is that the young people at the street level…they don't have the same protection [as the commercial rap starts], and they are carrying guns. And young people are losing their lives. And this has been reflected from the role models that these people follow.""[2] I believe this involved and aspiration to be part of the rap scene is the exact situation we are trying to avoid for adolescents and young adults everywhere. I agree that most successful rap artists come from impoverished backgrounds, but a lot of people who can familiarize themselves with them tend to follow their prior life style and fall in to the same bad habits, without the fame. Involvement with the rap scene has also put kids on the streets, trying to live their big dreams of becoming the next rap star. ======== '""Music forms an illusion and young people take it on board, because one known fact is that people connect to music lyrics, and these illusions are what young people take on and live with and try to portray in their own lifestyles, and that is such a big danger.""[2] Explain how these behavioral problems before rap were not evident until rap was introduced? Frankly, on both parts, these will be biased opinions because there are scenarios for every situation possible. There are situations where people may develop the problem through the music, have had it before, or never occurred one throughout. Once again, it was never stated that rap music 100% did not influence this said behaviour. Limiting would solve the issues of children being able to walk into a store and buying vulgar and violent music. Little pictures on the bottom saying explicit content usually does not stop kids from buying it. It may be the responsibility of the parents and the individual themselves, but perhaps it is needed on a greater scale to be the responsibility of society to protect the future of tomorrow. '""If I had a choice I would say it should be completely be cut off, but the thing is they say forbidden fruit attracts, and I do believe that if there is a market you know then the negative rapping should be censored. And I'm not saying it should be 18 or 21, I do believe it should be censored to 25, because all young people, by the age of about 25, would have become fathers or they would have matured a little bit, and that's when they will be able to actually make up their minds in relation to what should be heard in the house and that shouldn't be"" [2] Also, for the infringement upon civil liberties, that could go any way regarding any issue. Such as: drinking age, age of eligibility to vote. etc. ================== In conclusion, there may not be consistent evidence that rap on its own significantly influences behaviour, but there is no consistent evidence that rap doesn't either. 'There are many other rappers who also feed young people the type of lyrics that can influence positive thinking. These artists are usually not in the mainstream but you can find their music online.' [3] Therefore the rap music that is in mainstream, that is violent and negative, should be limited. [1] http://cognitive-psychology.suite101.com... [2] http://static.rnw.nl... [3]http://www.goarticles.com..."	PRO	108
108	Sf832e1ca-Ae6542970	Does rehabilitation actually work?\If we could find a medicine that would ‘cure’ some offenders so…	Does rehabilitation actually work? If we could find a medicine that would ‘cure’ some offenders so they would never offend again, would we really not want it? Even if it only worked for some people, is that not still worthwhile? It is no different with rehabilitative programs – we should certainly support them if they can be shown to work. And indeed, the most recent studies show that they do. Such programs include cognitive-behavioural programs (say, trying to get a violent offender to think and react differently to potential ‘trigger’ situations), pro-social modelling programmes, and some sex-offender treatment programs. The most credible research (done by a technique called meta-analysis) demonstrates that the net effect of treatment is, on average, a positive reduction of overall recidivism (reoffending) rates of between 10% and 12%, which would promote a reduction in crime that is, by penological standards, massive [see resources above]	PRO	109
109	Sd2f4b1cd-A11604487	Gay marriage does not help propagate society	"Adam Kolasinksi. ""The Secular Case Against Gay Marriage."" The Tech (M.I.T.) February 20th, 2004: ""Homosexual relationships do nothing to serve the state interest of propagating society [...]."""	PRO	110
110	Sc48592d0-A6dfc93e3	Libertarians are right on crime-- No gun control laws an no victimless crimes	"Take note: Since my opponenet's resolution asserts two things with an AND [or a typo thereof], all I must do to negate it is negate ONE of these assertions. I will completely agree that I see no better alternative to the libertarian position on gun control. Less gun control creates a better society, since as my opponenet pointed out, it lowers murder rates, etc. Basically, it is beneficial to society to not have gun control laws, so therefore that is the best policy. HOWEVER, I must disagree with my opponent's assertaion that Libertarians are right when it comes to 'victimless crimes.' I will define a victimless crime as a crime in which no ones rights are being infringed. Examples: prostitution, people doing drugs, people gambling, etc. Let us look at the effects some of these have on society. Allowing prostitution creates an unproductive job and promotes infidelity in society. Someone is spending time at work, but not truly producing anything useful for society as a whole. Not only that, but it needlessly increases the risk of STD's spreading. Also, promoting infidelity [or rather, not explicitly promoting fidelity] has its own problems for society. This leads to less stable families, which means kids are generally not raised as well, people are often less happy because they are upset at a spouse, and are therefore less productive, etc. Drugs? Drugs cause many problems. Because of the mind-altering effects of drugs, people will often make bad decisions while on drugs - decisions that are often hurtful to society. Also, Marijuana makes people less ambitious, and therefore less productive. And many other drugs are dangerous, and their use runs the risk of prematurely ending lives, another loss for society. Gambling? Casino workers get money, but they do nothing to add to the wealth of the country. By disallowing Gambling, our society is more prosperous, since these people might actually have jobs that produce something useful. My opponenet states that ""Nobody is hurt"" by these things, but the fact is, we're ALL hurt by these things. Our society prospers more if people do not be prostitutes, use drugs, and/or gamble. By trying to elminate these things today, whether we have to pay money to enforce it or not, we are investing in a more prosperous future, and isn't that the goal of any society? I await my opponent's response."	CON	111
111	S2d0c38e4-Abbfb4ddf	Reporting on violent crimes compromises the integrity and fairness of law	Judges and juries have to be neutral when they preside in court, and no bias can enter the court’s discourse and deliberation if justice is to be done. This is especially true of violent crime, for two reasons. First, in such cases, the court is dealing with people’s lives, as violent crime convictions yield high sentences, and the court’s decisions often have a lasting effect on the physical wellbeing of both victims and perpetrators of such crimes. Second, the visceral nature of violent crime naturally causes an emotive response from people hearing about it, which can cause them to act less rationally.[1] Opinion is thus more easily colored in deliberations over violent crime than with any other kind. In light of these facts it is necessary to analyze the behavior of the media when it reports on violent crimes. The media is a commercial enterprise. It prioritizes sales over truth, and always wants to sell the good story and to get the scoop. For this reason the media relishes the opportunity to sell the “blood and guts” of violent crime to its audience. Furthermore, the race to get stories first causes reporters and media outlets to jump to conclusions, which can result in the vilification of suspects who are in fact innocent. The media sensationalizes the extent of crime through its extreme emphasis on the violence; it builds its stories on moving imagery, emotive language, and by focusing on victims and their families. At the same time the media seeks to portray itself as being of the highest journalistic quality.[2] This behavior on the part of the media is tremendously bad for the legal process. The media circus surrounding violent crime necessarily affects potential jurors, judges, lawyers, and the general public. This has been observed on many occasions; for example, after the OJ Simpson trial some jurors admitted that the pressure generated by the media added significantly to the difficulties of deliberation. The inescapable consequence of the media reporting on violent crimes is that people cannot help internalizing the public opinion when it stands against a person on trial. Thus court judgments in the presence of a media circus must be held suspect. By restricting reporting on violent crime, however, the pressure can be relieved and the legal process can function justly. [1] Tyagi, Himanshu. “Emotional Responses Usually Take Over Rational Responses in Decision-Making”. RxPG News. 16 February 2007, http://www.rxpgnews.com/cognitivescience/Emotional-responses-usually-tak... [2] Lee, Martin and Norman Solomon. Unreliable Sources. New York: Lyle Stuart.	PRO	112
112	S96c4a212-A68bcce22	Rap music contributes to violent crimes	"======= Definitions ======= I'd like to begin by pointing out a huge flaw in Pro's definition of rap music; if rap is to be considered rhythmic talking with background instrumentals, then songs like Tom's Diner by Suzanne Vega and Walk on the Wild Side by Lou Reed would fit into that category. However, since I don't want to argue over semantics, I'd like to assume that my opponent, the readers and I can all agree on what type of music should be considered rap. I'd also assume that the hip-hop genre category is being represented in this debate as well. ======== Argument 1 ======== Pro says that music influences society; however, you'll note that she completely ignored the reality that sometimes music can have POSITIVE effects. This round will illustrate some of the positive effects that listening to rap music can have on an individual. ======== Argument 2 ======== A) Pro states that the stories behind rap lyrics negatively influence people. On the contrary, I'd like to present one study that found students actually improved their academic abilities after watching rap videos, as well as expressed more progressive attitudes regarding society (i.e. decreased racial tension). After watching politically focused rap videos, they were more inclined to support a particular political candidate [1]. This suggests that rap can positively influence people to get involved in a positive way, such as becoming interested in politics. Songs about Bush and Obama during the 2004 and 2008 campaigns demonstrate this reality, along with encouragement of rappers for people to vote. B) Pro notes rap music promotes violence or disrespect towards women. Studies show that only rap music with misogynistic themes appears to create misogynistic attitudes and greater acceptance of violence against women. Other types of rap do not have a negative effect on the perception of women [1]. ======== Argument 3 ======== Pro posits that rap videos promote destructive behavior. To clarify, studies do show that after watching rap VIDEOS, viewers were more more accepting of violent actions. However, just because they were more accepting of it doesn't mean that they themselves would act violently. It simply correlates a desensitization. Another study revealed that after watching a rap video depicting women in sexually subordinate roles, individuals were more inclined to express acceptance of violence against women in a dating situation. However, increased acceptance of crime and violence appears to be linked with viewing violent or sexist rap VIDEOS rather than listening to rap music on its own [1]. So, it's not the music itself that is being linked to this behavior, and therefore this is a moot point. ========= Con's Point 1 ========= Listening to rap or heavy metal has not been shown to increase suicidal ideas and anxiety, or adversely affect self-esteem among college-aged men and women. Actually, students listening to a nonviolent rap song experienced more depressive symptoms than those who listened to a violent rap song [1]. ========= Con's Point 2 ========= Rap music as been an escape from poverty for many artists, including but not limited to Tupac, Eminem Biggie, etc. In fact, most successful rap artists come from extremely impoverished backgrounds. That kind of ""escape"" is seen as inspirational in urban communities. Instead of feeling hopeless, many poor kids find that rap and rap battles are a creative and non-violent hobby. Involvement or aspirations to be a part of the rap scene have helped keep many kids off the streets. ========= Con's Point 3 ========= Rap has a bad rap. Subjects who were given a violent lyrical passage were more inclined to rate it as dangerous or offensive if they believed it came from a rap song than if they were told that it originated from a country music song [1]. This proves that people are biased towards rap music; nobody seems to notice or care when negative themes are depicted in any other genre besides rap or heavy metal. ========= Con's Point 4 ========= Behavioral problems associated with rap music usually begin before these individuals begin listening to rap. This indicates that the music itself does not cause behavioral problems or addiction. Instead, it suggests that people predisposed to these conditions prefer rap music - not that rap music influences this behavior. So, limiting it would solve nothing. ========= Con's Point 5 ========= To limit the production of an entire genre that people enjoy would be unnecessary, useless and an infringement upon civil liberties. There are currently no laws regarding the censorship of music. Songs with strong language, racist views, or harmful references will have a label on them. All the label means is that anyone can buy the song, but they should be aware of what the song contains [2]. I propose that it is the responsibility of the individual and parents to monitor what kind of music is listened to; we should be promoting responsibility and education/awareness - not censorship. ======= Conclusion ======= There is no consistent evidence that rap music on its own (without videos) significantly influences behaviors or attitudes. Also, while those who are not fans of rap tend to assume that all songs in the genre focus on violent, criminal or misogynistic themes, rap is actually a very diverse genre with many artists addressing important socio-political issues and positive themes [1]. Sometimes rap even focuses on loving themes, such as the song ""Mockingbird"" by Eminem which is a tribute to caring for his daughter. There are various other songs about loving one's significant other as well. So, all rap music cannot be lumped together in a single category. This resolution has been negated. ====== Sources ====== [1] http://cognitive-psychology.suite101.com... [2] http://www.nku.edu..."	CON	113
113	S96c4a212-A23467f9b	Rap music contributes to violent crimes	"======== Argument 1 ======== Pro acknowledges that while there can be considered negative aspects to listening to rap music, that there are positive aspects as well. Because that is the extent of what this argument discusses, we can see how this is a draw: this point makes no real argument and is therefore unnecessary. ======== Argument 2 ======== A) Point A discussed how rap music had positive influences regarding increased interest in politics and current events, as well as increased academic performance. Pro completely dropped this argument and therefore this point is awarded to the Con. B) Point B noted how only studies with misogynistic themes promoted misogynistic attitudes. Once again, Pro completely ignored this argument and this point go to the Con. ======== Argument 3 ======== This point illustrated how rap music only had a correlation with violence when it was accompanies by rap VIDEOS (so it's not the music itself). This is a strong argument in favor of the Con position, and yet Pro dropped this argument as well so once again this is a point for the Con. While Pro did say, ""The production of rap music equals the production of rap videos,"" we can't consider that a sufficient argument. It is not the content of the music in the rap videos but rather the violent images. This problem could be solved by (a) rap music existing without videos or (b) rap videos existing without violent content. However, none of this is even relevant when you look at my next point... ========= Con's Point 1 ========= What I said was that listening to rap or heavy metal has not been shown to increase suicidal ideas and anxiety, or adversely affect self-esteem among college-aged men and women. Actually, students listening to a nonviolent rap song experienced more depressive symptoms than those who listened to a violent rap song. Once more, Pro completely dropped this important argument. ========= Con's Point 2 ========= Pro did respond to this point, which pointed out that rap has helped impoverished people become famous and escape the hood. Pro's rebuttal was insufficient. She stated that while SOME people make it out of the hood, some people don't, and the ones that don't get sucked into a life of violence and crime. However, this is the complete opposite of what my point had established. I argued that people would become interested in music INSTEAD of adopt that life of violence and crime (and drug and other gang activity). In other words, music or ambition to succeed in that regard took precedence over the bad stuff. ========= Con's Point 3 ========= Pro writes, ""Explain how these behavioral problems before rap were not evident until rap was introduced?"" I have no idea what she's talking about here. What my 3rd point was is that rap has a bad rap; I pointed out how subjects who were given a violent lyrical passage were more inclined to rate it as dangerous or offensive if they believed it came from a rap song than if they were told that it originated from a country music song. This proves that people are biased towards rap music; nobody seems to notice or care when negative themes are depicted in any other genre besides rap or heavy metal. Instead of responding to this, Pro went off on something completely incomprehensible. ========= Con's Point 4 ========= My 4th point explained how behavioral problems associated with rap music usually begin before these individuals begin listening to rap, and this indicates that the music itself does not cause behavioral problems or addiction. Pro responds with, ""There are situations where people may develop the problem through the music"" which means absolutely nothing since she hasn't soured this fact or proved it. Also, she adds, ""[They may] have had it before, or never occurred one throughout. Once again, it was never stated that rap music 100% did not influence this said behaviour."" Bad spelling and grammar aside, this point is useless; it does nothing to combat my argument that the music itself does nothing to cause/influence bad behavior so therefore it doesn't pertain to upholding the resolution. ========= Con's Point 5 ========= My 5th point noted how everyone was responsible for themselves and their behavior, and that censorship opposed the democratic ideals that we uphold as a nation. Pro responded with, ""It may be the responsibility of the parents and the individual themselves, but perhaps it is needed on a greater scale to be the responsibility of society to protect the future of tomorrow."" No, I completely disagree. It is not society's obligation to raise your children. It is the job of the parents, and the individuals to be responsible for themselves and their own actions. Further, Pro adds, ""for the infringement upon civil liberties, that could go any way regarding any issue. Such as: drinking age, age of eligibility to vote. etc."" This is false, as drinking and voting come with age restriction; however, in limiting the music, you're limiting the production and sales of something - not just regulating one's age of consumerism. Moreover, these limitations exist to protect society. Pro has failed to prove how rap music itself correlated to violence, so she certainly failed to explain how rap music was a danger to society and therefore her resolution does not stand. ======= Conclusion ======= Pro concludes with, ""there may not be consistent evidence that rap on its own significantly influences behaviour, but there is no consistent evidence that rap doesn't either."" This is a terrible argument. First of all, she's the instigator in this debate; she has the burden of proof to affirm the resolution and therefore must present the evidence for her side. Furthermore, this is a completely BS and straw manned argument, as I DID present evidence of studies showing that rap music itself did not instigate violent behavior. Therefore, Pro's argument just fails on so many levels."	CON	114
114	S2d0c38e4-A3577588e	The state owes a duty of protection to victims, victims’ families, and those accused of committing crimes	Victims of violent crimes and their families face an emotional and vulnerable time in the wake of such crimes. People need time to recover, or mourn. The media’s fixation on violent crimes subjects these vulnerable people to the assault of reporters. In fact, there exists a perverse incentive for the media to badger families until they break down, as tears sell.  Such exploitation must be stopped, and the best way to do that is to deny the media the ability to report on such things. The media does not care about hurting feelings, and bad behavior on the part of reporters never hurts readership of media outlets, as is indicative of such tabloids as the National Enquirer. Outlets can always deflect any backlash that might occur for their excesses by cutting loose “rogue reporters”. Furthermore, families and victims usually do not want the media's, and the nation’s eyes upon them. Rather they tend to seek support from family and community, not the faceless masses.[1] People generally want to mourn in their own way. They may not want to become part of a media-driven narrative, and certainly not to become symbols for a new social crusade to reform communities. Removing violent reporting removes these perverse incentives to irritate victims and families, and instead leads to more respectful and considerate treatment. As for those accused of crimes, it can be hard for someone acquitted after a trial or accusation to get on with life. Some people may find themselves roundly accused by the media and public, even portrayed as monster, making it very hard to move on, even when their names are officially cleared. This is completely contrary to how the legal system should function, where acquittal is meant to deliver absolution. Allowing the media to construct narratives of guilt in the absence of evidence undermines the very fabric of justice. The media’s incessant coverage of violent crimes and its alacrity to make accusations and jump to conclusions can destroy someone’s life, more than even having to stand trial does. Justice must prevail and be fair to those to whom it judges in court, and this can only be done by not allowing the media to turn the mob against people even after their names are cleared. [1] Canadian Resource Centre for Victims of Crime. “Victims and the Media”. 2011, http://www.crcvc.ca/en/media-guide/part-1/victims-and-media/	PRO	115
115	S96ec5615-A3ef00480	"""Hate Crimes"" should not be a factor in the administration of justice"	"I thank my opponent for his thoughtful response. I hope that I will continue to persuade him that the concept of hate crime, and hate crime legislation is a bad idea for a free society. My opponent does take exception with my point of motivation in so far that an individual crime has far reaching ramifications. He believes that if a crime is motivated by hate, hate of a group, the crime is committed against that group not simply the individual recipient of the crime. However, in the interest of justice and our criminal system, those far reaching ramifications are indeed extra judicial, and are not in the best interest of justice. A specific crime should be judged on the individual incident rather than an overall attack on humanity [1]. If we begin such a grand view of justice, we do indeed redefine the intent of criminal justice. We also begin to set a dangerous precedent that can lead to a whole different use of the judiciary. An important byproduct of our criminal justice system is to discourage individuals from committing crimes, but when we are looking at solving societies problems via the judiciary we change the function of the system from that which is intended to provide a fair trial, to that which is to help shape society. It no longer is a byproduct, but rather a primary purpose, and thus diminishes justice in and by itself in favor of shaping a society to the liking of a political majority. In regards to my opponent's example of petty theft versus grand theft, the distinction is based on a differentiation of the crime itself, not the intent and is thus irrelevant to the debate. I apologize to my opponent for not explaining what my meaning was in ""Extra-Judicial""[2]. It is true that the judiciary carries out laws that are put in place by the legislature, but within the context of our criminal justice system, our judiciary was not intended to address the sociological problems of our communities, but rather to provide a fair system of justice for a defendant, and for a plaintiff. To deviate beyond that scope of intent is indeed extra judicial, and hate crime in what it is intended to address is definitely extra judicial. Expanding the role of our judiciary[3] is of concern and potentially greater harm to society in the long run, than the problems that it is intended to address. My opponent seems to think I have a problem with the process that laws are enacted, but he is wrong, it is the content of the laws that I have a problem with. Yes it is politicians who create these laws, and my disagreement with the content of these laws are part of a free society. I think my opponent has lost sight of what a fee society entails. There are indeed negatives in living with a free society, and people being free to think as they please, as distasteful as some of those thoughts may be to some, is part of that freedom. A somewhat outrageous quote from my opponent: ""If such harmful thoughts are not to be eradicated through the process of law, how then does my opponent want it to be done?"" I don't want anything to be done. I am perfectly fine with people holding harmful thoughts, I am not fine with harmful behavior, and there is a massive difference. Every time someone holds a resentment with another person there is a crime against humanity? Do we prosecute such thoughts to ""eradicate"" them? What if we entrust the judiciary with more than just the behavior, but more toward just the thoughts? Such direction with our judiciary is bleak for those who value freedom, particularly the most basic freedom of all, freedom of thought. My opponent actually disagrees with my assertion that hate crime legislation is really thought crime[4]. He would be wrong. There is the penalty for the crime, and then on top of that there is a penalty for the hate - that is what hate crime legislation essentially does. To be clear, hate is a thought, not an action, as is an idea or a motive is a thought. How my opponent cannot see that this added layer of penalty is not based on thought is lost on me. My opponent also seems to be lost on the definition of hate crime. ""hate crimes (also known as bias-motivated crimes) occur when a perpetrator targets a victim because of his or her perceived membership in a certain social group""[5] So if I simply hate my neighbor and hurt him, not because of an affiliation or perceived affiliation with a particular group, but because his dog uses my lawn as a toilet, it cannot be considered a hate crime. The opportunity for abuse in interpretation, or allowing it to fall into the capricious hands of current events and social concerns is great, and are clearly beyond the intent of our justice system. My arguments against hate crime legislation remain in tact: 1. Deterrent to motivation for crime is universally dealt with by deterrent to the crime itself. 2. Hate Crime Legislation is clearly extra-judicial, and extends the authority and scope of the court beyond the intentions of our criminal justice system. 3. Due to the nature of Hate Crime legislation it is subject to the capricious winds of politics and current events, and is contrary to the desired objectivity of justice. 4. Hate Crime is indeed thought crime, and that sets a very dangerous course for our free society. 5. The interpretational implications of Hate Crime legislation open up a great opportunity for abuse and expanding the role of this component of criminal prosecution. 1.http://www.merriam-webster.com... 2. http://www.thefreedictionary.com... 3.http://en.wikipedia.org... 4.http://en.wikipedia.org... 5.http://en.wikipedia.org..."	PRO	116
116	Sb1a6f17a-Aca0d8ba0	Violence in video games does not significantly contribute to real world violence.	I accept.	CON	117
117	Sb1a6f17a-A3792bce4	Violence in video games does not significantly contribute to real world violence.	Wylted and I will be debating this topic. Definitions Significantly- in a way that is relevant or has an important effect on something Observations This debate is about the impact of violence in video games, not about the impact of video games themselves. I am looking forward to a great debate!!	PRO	118
118	Sc1eb9840-Abe8d5306	Israel's right to self-defense does not justify mass murder	"Ilan Pappe. ""Israel's righteous fury and its victims in Gaza"". The Electronic Intifada. January 2, 2009 - ""Israel is engulfed once more with righteous fury that translates into destructive policies in the Gaza Strip. This appalling self-justification for the inhumanity and impunity is not just annoying, it is a subject worth dwelling on, if one wants to understand the international immunity for the massacre that rages on in Gaza."""	PRO	119
119	S5b27cc87-Ae6d5743d	Adequate solution for the root-cause: anti-bribery should be part of companies’ CSR missions	Anti-bribery principles should be part of companies’ CSR missions. It should also be the law. First of all, we don’t find this mutually exclusive – we’d like corporations to act against corruption on their own volition, but when they don’t, and actually instigate corruption, then we should be able to act against them. Since we all agree that bribery is bad, we haven’t received a single reason to rely exclusively on corporate goodwill, especially when its obvious that some corporations have no good will. Actually, Prop’s analogy to environmental and social issues is interesting. We have laws to regulate the amount of pollution or the working conditions that a corporation creates, and don’t rely only on CSR in order to make the corporations act right. We see no reason to make an exception in the case of corruption, which creates further environmental & social problems, as we show in our positive arguments. When corruption harms citizens, as Prop shown, then it is the government’s duty to safeguard the populace. The claim that there is over-regulation is simply an assertion, and furthermore, if a particular law in a particular country is over-regulating, that law should be revised. Not abolished, but revised. In order to prove that no country should have such laws, Prop has to show that all laws are over-regulating. Companies can’t always take their business elsewhere, we should remember that the corporate world is competitive – one company can ignore a market, but others will come in and use that market. Those, hopefully, won’t sell faulty pharmaceuticals. On the other hand, if a company will take its polluting plant elsewhere, where bribe isn’t required, then we’ll prefer that to sickening the people. We’re at no point advocating ignoring smaller fish – once again, not mutually exclusive. What we do say is that the damages that big corporations create are so much bigger, that we need to pay it special attention.	CON	120
120	Sc48592d0-Aca4f9f49	Libertarians are right on crime-- No gun control laws an no victimless crimes	"I'm experimenting. First, let me point out that I have a right to make new arguments in response only to new arguments my opponenent brought up last round, otherwise I must stick to my previous points. However, my opponent conceded a strange thing last round. ""Banning video games, large meals and theaters would make us more productive."" Sweet. So these are all victimless, and my opponenet has shown that they should be crimes. Note that he did not say ""Less people playing videogames would make us more productive,"" which would still possibly be dealt with by my opponent's argument about the prohibition effect. He stated that banning them would ACTUALLLY raise productivity. Thus, I can subvert the entire prohibition effect argument by simply using these new things as points. I can also effectively abandon the arguments about whether or not less gambling/prostitution/drugs raises productivity. So now, this debate is about freedom vs. productivity. Throughout the debate, I have upheld productivity as the ultimate goal of society. My opponent has effectively agreed to my terms - rather than bringing up another goal that is superior, he has consistently attempted to show that my points do not increase productivity. If freedom can be shown to be the ultimate goal of society, then my opponent would have had an easy time defeating my simply by claiming that I infringed on freedom, which my plans do. However, he did not go there. Instead, he went the route of trying to show that my plans did not increase productivity. His only support for his criteria of freedom as more important than productivity is that the constitution supports freedom. THE CONSTITUTION CAN BE WRONG. ""Person X or Document Y agrees with me, therefore I'm right"" is not an argument. I asked in Round 1, ""we are investing in a more prosperous future, and isn't that the goal of any society?"" And my opponent never disagreed. Thus, I think it is obvious that the superior criteria is productivity in this debate. Thus, we should ban videogames, large meals, and theaters, since that increases productivity [my opponent agrees that it does]. Thus, there should be victimless crimes. Thank you."	CON	121
121	S96ec5615-A71676d7c	"""Hate Crimes"" should not be a factor in the administration of justice"	The focus of my position will be on the concept of hate crimes, and hate crime legislation and their compatibility with our concept of a justice system. Hate crime is defined by Wiki as: “In crime and law, hate crimes (also known as bias-motivated crimes) occur when a perpetrator targets a victim because of his or her perceived membership in a certain social group, usually defined by racial group, religion, sexual orientation, disability, class, ethnicity, nationality, age, gender, gender identity, social status or political affiliation.[1]” Regardless of the motivation, the crime is of equal harm to society at large: Essentially by deeming the same crime with different standards depending on the motivation you are saying that the crime is more okay in one light than in another light. 1. My brother was killed because he was gay. 2. My brother was killed during a robbery. Hate crime legislation says that it’s more okay to kill for purposes of robbery, than in an attack based on hate. In both cases we want society to be protected by the murder, and in both cases the threat to society is real. We certainly do not want the victim of one to be deemed differently than the other. Society doesn’t need to be protected more from hate based crimes than non hate based crimes; as it is in the best interest of society to be protected from the crime regardless of the motive behind it. To the family of someone who is killed by a drug addict trying to maintain his habit, are they even slightly comforted by the fact that it wasn’t hate based? Of course not. Is society at lesser risk by those who are killing to support their drug habit versus those who are killing due to hate? No, the risk is equal, or the behavior of killing is equal. External to justice: Essentially the objective of hate crime legislation is extra judicial, that is outside of the realm of what the function of what our judiciary is responsible. Hate crime's objective is external, with the intention of shaping a society that conforms to the ideals that motivate hate crime legislation. The intentions may (or might not) be admirable, but they are clearly outside the realm of our criminal justice system’s intended purpose, i.e. to provide a fair trial for a specific crime. Politicization: When we deem a class of person with added protection, particularly under a politically charged environment, we run the risk of losing “equal protection under the law”[2]. Responsibility of the criminal justice system is to provide a fair trial for the defendant in their accused crime. It does not involve the agenda of politicians, or even society at large, but rather the specific crime to the specific law that was violated. Hate crime legislation adds an additional layer of almost always politically motivated laws to be sorted out by judges and juries. It is absurd to say that a person is guilty of both killing someone and hating them because they are black. We don’t try someone for what they are thinking, but rather for the behavior that results. I don’t deny that premeditation is a component of the definition of the crime, but the exact profile of that premeditation is not on trial. Premeditation is defined as: “The contemplation of a crime well enough in advance to show deliberate intent to commit the crime; forethought.”[3] Thought Crime: We should keep in mind that this sort of legislation is different from standard criminal laws where we are strictly concerned with the behavior of individuals in society, not what they are thinking. By convicting someone of a crime, and then adding to it the additional crime of hate, we are now legislating prohibition of thought. Combined with the politicization of the particular protection, we speak of, the net result is a governmental prohibition of a type of thinking subject to the winds of political change. Interpretational difficulties: If I hate my neighbor for whatever reason, and end up hurting him – is that a hate crime? According to the legislation it would only be if he were of a minority group as mentioned in the definition, but if I were to hate him for being part of the majority; let’s say he was straight, and I am gay, and I killed him because he was straight, does the hate crime legislation apply? Strictly speaking, no. However the principle of the legislation is the same in the hatred of a class, but the majority is not a protected class. By the same token, if he hurt me because he hated me, but not because I am gay, but because my dog uses his lawn as a toilet – is that hate crime? If he killed me, could a lawyer easily attribute the crime toward his (not so) obvious hatred of gays, and the defendant be given the added penalty of hate? I ask those who are reading this debate to carefully consider the justice system, and what role something like “hate crime legislation” would and could play in its administration. 1. http://en.wikipedia.org... 2. http://www.legal-explanations.com... 3. http://www.thefreedictionary.com...	PRO	122
122	Sd2f4b1cd-A24d5714a	Gay marriage does not help society; can't justify costs	"Adam Kolasinksi. ""The Secular Case Against Gay Marriage."" The Tech (M.I.T.) February 20th, 2004: ""Homosexual relationships do nothing to serve the state interest of propagating society, so there is no reason to grant them the costly benefits of marriage. [...] When a state recognizes a marriage, it bestows upon the couple certain benefits which are costly to both the state and other individuals. Collecting a deceased spouse's social security, claiming an extra tax exemption for a spouse, and having the right to be covered under a spouse's health insurance policy are just a few examples of the costly benefits associated with marriage. In a sense, a married couple receives a subsidy. Why? Because a marriage between to unrelated heterosexuals is likely to result in a family with children, and propagation of society is a compelling state interest. For this reason, states have, in varying degrees, restricted from marriage couples unlikely to produce children."""	PRO	123
123	Sd2f4b1cd-A11afa73a	Bible does not explicitly define marriage b/w man and woman	"Lisa Miller. ""Our Mutual Joy."" Newsweek. December 6th, 2008: ""while the Bible and Jesus say many important things about love and family, neither explicitly defines marriage as between one man and one woman."""	PRO	124
124	S96c4a212-Ad307864e	Rap music contributes to violent crimes	Just some information as to why I have created this debate. I am currently enrolled in Law and we are scheduled to begin a debate about this issue in a few days. I was to be on the affirmative side, so I will be taking affirmative during this debate as well. ======================================= Be it resolved that rap music contributes to violent crime and therefore its production should be limited. ======================================= Definitions Rap music- a type of rhythmic talking, often with accompanying rhythm instruments Violent crimes-a crime in which the offender uses or threatens to use violent force upon the victim Production- the creation or manufacturing of a man-made product Limited- restricted or checked, by or as if by a constitution, laws, or an assembly For the purpose of this debate, I propose it should be limited by only selling it to persons over the age of 21. ======================================== Argument 1: Rap music has an impact on society 'The influence that rap currently has on our children all around the world is unfortunately a very strong one.'[1] People's words and people's actions are constantly criticised on a daily basis, and music is no exception. While listening to music, you can not help but notice the words and the beat associated with it. Whether for the good or bad, rap has influenced society. Whether or not it's something people idolize or music people refrain from associating from it. Argument 2: Rap music endorses violence Not only does rap more often than not contain vulgar language, it contains a fair amount of violent thoughts or actions. 'Eighty percent of the rap music that is currently on the top ten lists around the world contains violence. They glorify the acts of beating up another person, or even worse shooting them.'[1] Whether or not the vulgar language sometimes used influences you, the story behind the words can. A lot of rap music contains stories of domestic abuse and violence against individuals. 'Some rap song lyrics also have a dark side and most people associate rap lyrics with disrespect for women and violence because many rap lyrics talks about killing rival rappers and shooting cops. In the early 1990's the rivalry between west coast rappers and east coast rappers claimed the lives of the two biggest rappers of their era, Tupac Shakur and The Notorious B.I.G.' [2] Argument 3: Rap videos promote destructive behaviour 'After studying 522 black girls between the ages of 14 and 18 from non- urban, lower socioeconomic neighborhoods, researchers found that compared to those who never or rarely watched these videos, the girls who viewed these gangster videos for at least 14 hours per week were far more likely to practice numerous destructive behaviors. Over the course of the one-year study, they were: Three times more likely to hit a teacher Over 2.5 times more likely to get arrested Twice as likely to have multiple sexual partners 1.5 times more likely to get a sexually transmitted disease, use drugs, or drink alcohol. ' [3] These are overwhelming facts. If that is the result from 522 young woman, I could imagine the statistics would only grow if you were to study even more woman, or consult young men. As you can see, young individuals are easily impressionable, and for this reason, music should be limited, just like how alcohol is. It should be limited distribution to only certain stores where they could make certain as to whom can buy the music. =============== In conclusion, rap music influences and contributes to violent crimes and therefore, should be limited in its production. Young individuals are impressionable, and should not be exposed to such harsh, disrespectful words. [1] http://www.associatedcontent.com... [2] http://www.articlesbase.com... [3] http://www.webmd.com...	PRO	125
125	S117fcf66-Ab920368b	Some of the biggest crimes that affect society the most are committed by huge multinational companies or wealthy individuals.	While the figures demonstrated in this argument clearly illustrate that these large scale crimes are more often committed by those who are not suffering from social deprivation, tax evasion constitutes a small percentage of the world wide crime rate, and thus should not be taken to prove that social deprivation is not the primary source of crime. 	CON	126
126	S87d0ccd3-A6371a03a	Merely because some individuals break a law does not mean that the law itself is at fault	, or that it should be abolished. The ease with which prostitutes can return to work suggests that penal sanctions should be more severe, rather than removed altogether.	PRO	127
127	S96ec5615-Aefb5f385	"""Hate Crimes"" should not be a factor in the administration of justice"	I thank my opponent for this engaging debate. It has further codified my stance on this issue where previously it was based on a gut feeling. I’m not going to directly address my opponent’s last post, but rather my summation should address any concerns he may have within my argument, and for those reading this debate; I am confident that you see the strength of those arguments. This debate’s resolution specifically dealt with the “administration of justice”, or the criminal justice system that we have today. It is clear that my opponent sees this system as more than a process in which we provide a fair trial within the confines of our constitution, but rather as an opportunity to change our society. A lofty goal, with I am sure admirable intentions, but let those reading this debate remember what a defendant is entitled to when facing a judge or jury. It is the merits of the case that determine the outcome of a trial, not the conditions of society. My opponent and I agree that it is the intention of such legislation to put upon the courts the task of trying people for hate, and thus work to eliminate hate from our society. It is true that an act must be committed to prove that hate exists before it is tried in court, but nonetheless it is a charge of hate upon which courts are being asked to decide. I’d like to point out that it is no more likely that the courts would have any impact on addressing hatred that might be in the hearts of men than it would in trying to remove the love that also dwells within the hearts of men. We speak of the human condition and not human behavior; while keeping in mind that my opponent would expand the current understanding and accepted definition of hate crime to all incidents of hate, not just those that are within minority groups. That is to say he is not just looking to eliminate prejudicial based hate, but every resentment and ill feeling one man might have for another, and all this is to be addressed by our courts. I will reiterate what I have said and what I believe. When living in a free society, a pluralistic society, we must accept things we may not like or agree with. We might lose sight of that from time to time as we try and cope with extreme demonstrations of what we might consider abhorrent behavior, and we cling to our government and our laws to protect us from bad feelings. In a free society I have no guarantee that someone will not hate me for good reason or not. My opponent seems surprised that I would do nothing to modify the thoughts of people in our society, at least where our courts or legislation is concerned. A free people should be able to follow their passions as long as they do not infringe on the rights of their fellow citizens; as it is within such passions that our country was founded. My opponent doesn’t see how clearly this is indeed thought crime legislation. I will leave that to the readers of this debate to determine. The penalty for the crime is on the books, and the prosecution of that crime would be carried out, but the additional layer of the hate crime is then added to the initial behavior based crime and an additional determination of that crime is both tried and sentenced within the context of the trial. Hate is not a behavior but a thought. My opponent undoubtedly is responding to the Orwellian bell that rings when it is put to him that this is indeed thought crime legislation. Our criminal justice system is meant to find guilt or innocence for a specific crime committed, it is not to work toward wiping out those things that are found within the nature of man that might cause crime. In doing so we lose the “justice” from the system we look to for protection. Our courts cannot reflect upon the conditions of society when determining guilt; it cannot look toward solving a social problem in the context of an individual crime, but rather it must determine guilt within the merits of the case. This debate is about the role of government, specifically the criminal justice system in our society; what can we expect of it, what should we expect of it, and what responsibilities it has to society. My opponent has a far more expansive idea as to its role and has greater faith in it's ability than I do. However the weight and clarity of my arguments should fully illustrate the validity of my position.	PRO	128
128	S6f7068a6-A6c655fd8	Hate crime enhancements help prevent hate crimes	The additional punishment given to hate crimes under enhancements can help deter people who hold hateful views from acting on them, as they fear going to prison for any amount of time, and so any additional punishment affects their risk calculation before they commit a hate crime. Moreover, increased punishments help prevent those who have perpetrated hate crimes from re-offending through rehabilitation in prison. In cases of crimes motivated by deep hatred, rehabilitation may require increased time and increased effort in order to provide criminals with the correct focus and concentration, and a longer sentence is necessary for this to happen. Hate is not an essential human trait, we are not born hating people, it is a learned factor that can be unlearned when correctly rehabilitated. Therefore hate crime enhancements are just because they help prevent hate crimes and help prevent hate crime recidivism.	PRO	129
129	S6f7068a6-A375daee7	Hate crime enhancements help prevent hate crimes	It isn't necessarily true that hate crime enhancements really do deter hate crimes or help fight recidivism. Those committing hate crimes would face significant deterrents (in the form of legal sanctions, including prison time) for the crimes they commit even without the enhancements, so it seems unlikely that the addition of a few more years on their sentence, for example, would make a large difference to them when considering committing a crime. Moreover most hate crimes are based on irrational hatred and prejudice, and thus are unlikely to be rationally considered in a risk analysis as this argument supposes. In terms of rehabilitation, it should be noted that prisons are frequently places of racial and sectarian tension, with violent prison gangs built on ethnic and other identities, and thus hardly seem the place to counteract such prejudices.(	CON	130
130	S6f7068a6-A435c548	Hate crimes uniquely harm through terror	"Hate crimes should be given a more severe penalty because the harm done to the victim and society is greater. Given that the intent of hate crimes is more malicious than simple premeditative murder; it is just to enhance hate crime laws to reflect stronger punishment. Hate crimes don't merely victimize the individual upon whom violence is inflicted, they also victimize a community or minority group that the hate crime was intended to terrorize. This is why hate crimes frequently include highly public acts such as lynchings in town squares, dragging hate crime victims behind cars along streets inhabited by certain communities, and graffiti on significant buildings -they are intended to send a message. Hate crime-delivered messages limit the freedom of expression and group association of the victim community, thus violating their liberties. For this reason, hate crimes have more victims than other crimes, and subsequently deserver greater punishment.  Moreover, as hate crimes are generally perpetrated against minority groups, and because these minority groups are always in a state of social disenfranchisement; it could be argued that hate crime enhancements are the state's way of attempting to arbitrate equality to minorities by compensating them with laws that will better favour their interests, thus forcibly ""balancing the scale"" of social equity. "	PRO	131
131	S6f7068a6-A88374102	Hate crimes uniquely harm through terror	Much of this symbolism and “meaning” attributed to hate crimes is deeply subjective and open to (mis)interpretation, especially in a politicized environment where hatred against one group is perceived as being the “usual” motivation behind any crime by any individual from another community against that group, and where the idea of hatred motivating a crime against another community by a different individual (based on his own background) is treated with scepticism.	CON	132
132	Sc48592d0-Aae8f2465	Libertarians are right on crime-- No gun control laws an no victimless crimes	"Gun control laws do not work because criminals will prey on citizens because criminals will be armed while citizens are defenseless. In Florida, the murder rate dropped 20% after gun control was abolished. Criminals fear armed suspects. My dad is a cop he knows that the main reason people think twice about robberies is because the may be armed. Our Constitution says, ""The right to bear arms shall not be infringed."" Gun control laws are unconstitutional. Our police spend a lot of their time fighting victimless crimes like prostitution, gambling, and drugs. No body is hurt but the police are being overstretched for these crimes. Our jails are filled with drug users, drug sellers, prostitutes and gamblers. Parole allows criminals to leave prison because the jail is overcrowded. If the jails were less crowded with victimless criminals, then violent criminals would not be back on the streets so quickly and people would not expect to get parolled and would be less likely to commit crimes. Plus, we spend trillions on the War on Drugs each year. That money could go to other forms of crime fighting or anything else including lower taxes."	PRO	133
133	S87d0ccd3-A9f911235	Prostitution can relieve the tension that leads to sex crimes.	Sex crimes such as rape or molestation can be seen, in part, as a product of sexual frustrations. Men, in particular, have a high sexual drive and yet many are often unable to satisfy that drive due to physical appearance, social difficulties, or other problems. After being denied sexual relations dozens of times for years on end, some of these men become so desperate that they justify to themselves the commission of a sex crime. Prostitution can help prevent the sexual frustration that leads to sex crimes, by acting as something of an exhaust valve for pent up sexual energies.	PRO	134
134	S2d0c38e4-Ae74b45d3	Reporting on violent crimes compromises the integrity and fairness of law	Law should be just and unbiased. That is not a controversial position. However, it seems difficult to imagine that reporting on violent crimes has so tremendous an effect on the public that judges and jurors cannot be unbiased in their deliberations. Rather, the process of jury selection as it stands is designed to guarantee that there is no bias with both prosecution and defence being allowed to examine and object to a juror. Furthermore, most reporting on violent crime is about simple facts rather than any attempt to influence opinion on specific crimes. This is the essence of what news is, people have a right to know what is going on in their society, even if what is going on is brutally violent. 	CON	135
135	S2d0c38e4-A53ab35af	restrict media reporting on violent crimes	The mainstream media is essential for the accurate reporting of information; without it reporting on violent crimes, they would simply be reported by less accountable, less accurate freelance reporters and blogs	CON	136
136	S2d0c38e4-A3f7538f3	restrict media reporting on violent crimes	The state owes a duty of protection to victims, victims’ families, and those accused of committing crimes	PRO	137
137	S2d0c38e4-A803b854f	The mainstream media is essential for the accurate reporting of information; without it reporting on violent crimes, they would simply be reported by less accountable, less accurate freelance reporters and blogs	The media is regularly accused of being sensationalist and of hyping up the extent and gruesomeness of violent crimes. In some cases this may be true, but the media generally reports facts in a sober and informative, if also exciting, way. Without the mainstream media, however, news about violent crimes will still spread. The news will be disseminated within local communities and across the Internet via email and blogs. The result is lessening of journalistic quality, as bloggers are not bound by any exacting requirements in terms of the need for factual bases of stories.[1] The mainstream media provides a largely credible source of news that new media still lacks. In the absence of mainstream reporting, especially on such a hot button issue as violent crime, will only serve to spread disinformation, leading people to draw inaccurate conclusions and make decisions based on inaccurate knowledge. [1] Rouse, Darren. “Is New Media a Threat to Journalism?”. ProBlogger. 15 October 2007, http://www.problogger.net/archives/2007/10/15/is-new-media-a-threat-to-j...	PRO	138
138	S2d0c38e4-A22cf5f80	The mainstream media is essential for the accurate reporting of information; without it reporting on violent crimes, they would simply be reported by less accountable, less accurate freelance reporters and blogs	Bans and restrictions on the old media would equally affect the ‘new’ media of the internet age. Bloggers could just as easily be taken to court for their reporting as conventional journalists so the news would still be restricted. While individuals may still report crimes this would become limited to the local area where people do have a genuine interest in the crime rather than it being reported nationally. 	CON	139
139	S2d0c38e4-Abead9a94	restrict media reporting on violent crimes	Reporting on violent crimes compromises the integrity and fairness of law	PRO	140
140	Sfffbcdf0-Aca45823	Hate crimes terrorize communities and so deserve greater punishment	Hate crimes don't merely victimize the individual upon which violence is inflicted. They also victimize a community or minority group that the hate crime was intended to terrorize. It limits their freedom of expression and group association, thus violating their liberties. For this reason, hate crimes have more victims than other crimes, and subsequently deserver greater punishment.	PRO	141
141	Sfffbcdf0-A1a19761f	Gays and lesbians need special protections from hate crimes	Studies indicate that gas and lesbians are at exceptional risk of becoming the victims of hate-motivated violence. They are like many other minority groups in this regard, some of which already receive special legal protections from hate crimes, and so they should also attain legal protections against hate crimes.	PRO	142
142	Sfffbcdf0-A3a37afed	Transgender people need protections against hate crimes	Transgender people have been victims of a substantial number of hate crimes. It is, therefore, necessary to protect them with hate crime enhancements.	PRO	143
143	S520dc169-A559d0f8e	Prosecutions for war crimes and crimes against humanity take place in the specific context of a post…	Prosecutions for war crimes and crimes against humanity take place in the specific context of a post-conflict society. It is important that child soldiers are included in post-war justice, so that the whole community can see that the perpetrators of human rights violations are punished. The finality of a trial also helps to draw a line under the conflict and allows a society to move on.	PRO	144
144	S520dc169-A9b0dd0f1	Not prosecuting child soldiers may encourage commanders to use child soldiers to commit war crimes b…	Not prosecuting child soldiers may encourage commanders to use child soldiers to commit war crimes because they know there will be no consequences. International efforts to deter warring parties from committing atrocities require a clear and credible message to be sent: anyone involved in war crimes will face justice in future.	PRO	145
145	S2e729a4f-A7ed1adca	Multiculturalism highlights differences and can increase hate crimes.	"If racial groups do not assimilate into an idea of central unity then the natives will have resentment against them. In particular, if the ""discrete social differences"" mentioned in the introduction become more apparent for instance in light of a terrorist attack then racial hate crimes become more frequent. This happens to such an extent that it becomes dangerous for the immigrant to be a part of the nation. Take as an example the 300% rise in racial hate crimes in London alone after the 7/7 bombings. The 7/7 bombings clearly showed a difference between Muslims who had not integrated (those who still wore typical dress) and the white Britons. Although it was only a minority who committed such appalling acts, the feeling of detachment and resentment toward this particular racial group made the social cohesion uneasy and awkward."	PRO	146
146	S2e729a4f-A7ed1adca	Multiculturalism highlights differences and can increase hate crimes.	"If racial groups do not assimilate into an idea of central unity then the natives will have resentment against them. In particular, if the ""discrete social differences"" mentioned in the introduction become more apparent for instance in light of a terrorist attack then racial hate crimes become more frequent. This happens to such an extent that it becomes dangerous for the immigrant to be a part of the nation. Take as an example the 300% rise in racial hate crimes in London alone after the 7/7 bombings. The 7/7 bombings clearly showed a difference between Muslims who had not integrated (those who still wore typical dress) and the white Britons. Although it was only a minority who committed such appalling acts, the feeling of detachment and resentment toward this particular racial group made the social cohesion uneasy and awkward."	PRO	147
147	S72f5af83-Ad9f2dd6	"Libertarians would decriminalize many crimes, so reduce ""crime""."	"By decriminalizing many crimes, particularly victimless crimes such as smoking marijuana, Libertarians would reduce the number of ""offenses"" that are considered ""crimes"", so reduce crime. This is important particularly from the standpoint of sending people to jail for minor offenses."	PRO	148
148	S4e909451-A8b30779b	McCain's false confession to committing war crimes was dishonorable.	Under duress in Vietnam, McCain falsely admitted that he had committed war crimes. With all due respect to McCain's service to the country, this was a show of weakness and considered, by McCain's own admission, a dishonorable act.	PRO	149
149	S2d0c38e4-A847a150b	restrict media reporting on violent crimes	The contagion effect of reporting on violence leads to increased impetus for terrorist attacks and serial killings	PRO	150
150	S2d0c38e4-A7e364f41	restrict media reporting on violent crimes	The media’s reporting and investigating acts as a check on the behavior of the justice system	CON	151
151	S2d0c38e4-A5c9e8493	restrict media reporting on violent crimes	Reporting generates a constant iteration of fear in the public, and precipitates a ratchet effect toward crime	PRO	152
152	S2d0c38e4-A17ce7386	restrict media reporting on violent crimes	It is necessary for people to understand the extent of criminal activity in order for them to coordinate an effective response	CON	153
153	S2d0c38e4-A4cf723db	restrict media reporting on violent crimes	To not promote the truth of events is contrary to the duty, and to the right of free speech, of a responsible media	CON	154
154	S2d0c38e4-Ae1ddbbf1	The state owes a duty of protection to victims, victims’ families, and those accused of committing crimes	Some journalists and media outlets are despicable in the way they treat people. Preying upon victims and their families is absolutely wrong, but a ban is not the way to solve this problem as it would simply move the media frenzy to whenever the ban on a case is removed and the details become public. Instead better regulation of the press is needed in such emotional cases in order to make sure that the media is respectful of families and also to make sure that those accused are seen to be innocent until proven guilty.	CON	155
155	Sfffbcdf0-A259227a3	Hate crimes cannot be proven to harm communities	It is difficult to determine externalities of harm to a community or a minority group from a particular hate crime. How can it be determined that a hate-crime causes a minority group greater fear and subsequently restricts their liberties of expression and so-forth? These psychological effects are far from tangible harm, and would prove highly difficult to statistically confirm.	PRO	156
156	Sfffbcdf0-A12a0bc4d	Hate crime laws violate free speech more than hate crimes themselves.	Such legislation essentially penalizes the thoughts, emotions, or motives behind an act. The act itself, if illegal, would already be worthy of punishment. Such policies set a precedent for punishing individuals who hold beliefs the government, or the majority of people do not believe. The potential exists for such precedents to later be used against the very minority interests the government seeks to protect in the present.	PRO	157
157	S520dc169-A3c7e279e	Not prosecuting child soldiers may encourage commanders to use child soldiers to commit war crimes b…	It is unlikely that prosecutions after the fact would have this effect. Prosecutions only happen after the war has ended so those who recruit child soldiers will not take this into consideration. Moreover, they are already breaking the law by using child soldiers so they are unlikely to stop using child soldiers just because the child faces a risk of prosecution.	CON	158
158	S520dc169-A9682d0be	Prosecutions for war crimes and crimes against humanity take place in the specific context of a post…	The aim should not be punishment of child soldiers but rehabilitation. There are alternatives that achieve this aim better than prosecutions. Truth and Reconciliation Commissions and Disarmarment, Demobilisation and Rehabilitation programs (DDR) are a better way of helping child soldiers come to terms with what they did and re-integrate them into society. Prosecutions pose the risk of being one-sided victor’s justice. They may also be selective because of lack of evidence or an overloaded justice system, so not every child soldier will be prosecuted. It is better to have a comprehensive program of rehabilitation so that all child soldiers can be re-integrated into society and rehabilitated.	CON	159
159	S96c4a212-A1df5e40c	Rap music contributes to violent crimes	Well, my opponent has been online but failed to post a final round argument. I guess that means she concedes. Oh well, thanks for the debate, welcome to the site, and good luck in school :)	CON	160
